<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061222_10-K_edgar_data_737758_0001104659-06-083580_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2304719</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>317195</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>6808</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1353235</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>52</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-083580.hdr.sgml : 20061222
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061222132154
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-083580
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20061031
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061222
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061222

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			TORO CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000737758
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT [3524]
		IRS NUMBER:				410580470
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08649
		FILM NUMBER:		061296179

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8111 LYNDALE AVE SOUTH
		CITY:			BLOOMINGTON
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55420-1196
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6128888801

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8111 LYNDALE AVENUE SOUTH
		CITY:			BLOOMINGTON
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55420

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TORO CO/DE
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WpRjmM4PdIEMujJgx1vxrN3gfkCNH0xA1ejnkAjRkD3ibAsmwioNqONnIhHXq9s8
 QZKNAmpy1+TBWDnpyYp65g==

 0001104659-06-083580.txt : 20061222

10-K
 1
 a06-25975_310k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-K   

   Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For Fiscal Year Ended October 31, 2006.   

   THE TORO COMPANY   

  (Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)  

8111
Lyndale Avenue South 
Bloomington, Minnesota 55420-1196 
Telephone number: (952) 888-8801   

  (Address, including zip
code, and telephone number, including area code, of registrant s principal
executive offices)  

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of Each Class   

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered     

Common Stock, par value
  $1.00 per share  

New York Stock Exchange  

Preferred Share Purchase Rights  

New York Stock Exchange  

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None  

  Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.    Yes   x     No  o  

  Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.    Yes   o     No  x  

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes   x     No  o  

  Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.   o  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.  

  Large accelerated filer          x         Accelerated
filer         o         Non-accelerated
filer         o  

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).    Yes   o     No  x  

  The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, based on the closing price of the Common Stock on May 5, 2006,
the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, was approximately $2.1
billion.  

  The number of shares of
Common Stock outstanding as of December 15, 2006 was 41,044,271.  

   Documents Incorporated by
Reference   

  Portions of the registrant s
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held March 13,
2007 are incorporated by reference into Part III.  

THE TORO
COMPANY 
FORM 10-K 
TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Description   

Page Number   

PART I     

ITEM 1.     

Business    

3-10  

ITEM 1A.     

Risk Factors    

11  

ITEM 1B.     

Unresolved
  Staff Comments    

16  

ITEM 2.     

Properties    

17  

ITEM 3.     

Legal
  Proceedings    

17  

ITEM 4.     

Submission
  of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    

18  

Executive
  Officers of the Registrant    

18  

PART II     

ITEM 5.     

Market for
  Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases
  of Equity Securities    

19  

ITEM 6.     

Selected
  Financial Data    

20  

ITEM 7.     

Management s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

20  

ITEM 7A.     

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    

32  

ITEM 8.     

Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data    

34  

Management s
  Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting    

34  

Report of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over
  Financial Reporting        

35  

Report of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

36  

Consolidated
  Statements of Earnings for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006,
  2005, and 2004    

37  

Consolidated
  Balance Sheets as of October 31, 2006 and 2005    

38  

Consolidated
  Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006,
  2005, and 2004        

39  

Consolidated
  Statements of Stockholders  Equity for the fiscal years ended
  October 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004    

40  

Notes to
  Consolidated Financial Statements    

41  

ITEM 9.     

Changes in
  and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

54  

ITEM 9A.     

Controls
  and Procedures    

54  

ITEM 9B.     

Other
  Information    

55  

PART III     

ITEM 10.     

Directors
  and Executive Officers of the Registrant    

55  

ITEM 11.     

Executive
  Compensation    

55  

ITEM 12.     

Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
  Matters    

55  

ITEM 13.     

Certain
  Relationships and Related Transactions    

55  

ITEM 14.     

Principal
  Accounting Fees and Services    

55  

PART IV     

ITEM 15.     

Exhibits
  and Financial Statement Schedules    

56  

Signatures    

59  

2  

PART I     

ITEM
1.                BUSINESS   

   Introduction     

  The Toro Company was incorporated in Minnesota in 1935
as a successor to a business founded in 1914 and reincorporated in Delaware in
1983. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms  company,   Toro,   we, 
and  our  refer to The Toro Company and its subsidiaries. Our executive offices
are located at 8111 Lyndale Avenue South, Bloomington, Minnesota 55420-1196,
telephone number (952) 888-8801. Our Internet address for Toro branded
product related information is  www.toro.com  and our web site for
corporate and investor information is  www.thetorocompany.com . The
information contained on our web sites or connected to our web sites is not
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and
should not be considered part of this report.  

  We design, manufacture, and market professional turf
maintenance equipment and services, turf and micro irrigation systems,
landscaping equipment, and residential yard products. We produced our first
mower for golf course use in 1921 and our first lawn mower for home use in
1939, and we have continued to enhance our product lines ever since. We classify
our operations into two reportable segments: professional and residential. A
third segment called  other  consists of domestic company-owned distributorships,
corporate functions, and Toro Credit Company, a wholly owned financing
subsidiary. Net sales of our segments accounted for the following approximate
percentages of our consolidated net sales for fiscal 2006: Professional, 67
percent; Residential, 31 percent; and Other, 2 percent.  

  Our products are advertised and sold at the retail
level under the primary trademarks of Toro    ,
Toro    Wheel Horse   ,
Lawn-Boy   , Irritrol   ,
Exmark   , Toro    Dingo   , Aqua-TraXX   , Pope   , Hayter   , and Lawn Genie   , most of
which are registered in the United States and/or in the principal foreign
countries where we market our products. This report also contains trademarks,
trade names, and service marks that are owned by other persons or entities,
such as The Home Depot. 

  We emphasize quality and
innovation in our customer service, products, manufacturing, and marketing. We
strive to provide well-built, dependable products supported by an extensive
service network. We have committed funding for engineering and research in
order to improve existing products and develop new products. Through these
efforts, we seek to be responsive to trends that may affect our target markets
now and in the future. A sizeable portion of our revenue has historically been
attributable to new and enhanced products. Our mission is to be the leading
worldwide provider of outdoor landscaping products, support services, and
integrated systems that help customers preserve and beautify their outdoor
landscapes with environmentally responsible solutions of customer-valued
quality and innovation. Additional information on our strategic initiatives is
included in Item 7,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,  of this report.  

   Products by
Market     

  We strive to be a leader in
adapting advanced technologies to products and services that provide solutions
for landscape, turf care maintenance, and residential demands. The following is
a summary of our products by market for the professional and residential segments:  

    Professional      We
design professional turf products and market them worldwide through a network
of distributors and dealers as well as directly to government customers and
rental companies. Products are sold by distributors and dealers to professional
users engaged in maintaining and creating landscapes, such as golf courses,
sports fields, municipal properties, and residential and commercial landscapes.
Professional turf maintenance equipment marketed under the Toro brand name is
our oldest product line that began in 1921 with tractor-towed mowers for golf
courses. Over time, we have expanded our product lines to include products
designed for large turf areas, such as golf courses, schools, parks,
cemeteries, sports fields, industrial sites, apartments, and townhouse
complexes. 

    Landscape Contractor Market.      Products for the landscape contractor
market include zero-turn radius riding mowers, 21-inch heavy-duty walk
behind mowers, mid-size walk behind mowers, and compact utility loaders. These
products are sold through distributors and dealers, and are also available
through rental centers to individuals and companies who maintain and create
residential and commercial landscapes on behalf of property owners. We market
products to landscape contractors under the Toro, Exmark, and Lawn-Boy brands. 

  In fiscal 2006, we
introduced a new line of fixed and floating deck mid-sized walk-behind
commercial mowers, featuring the same high performance Turboforce     deck technology
used on the Toro zero-turn radius riding mowers. In fiscal 2006, we also
introduced the Exmark Phazer , a compact commercial zero-turn radius riding
mower for landscape professionals with smaller properties unsuitable for larger
commercial riders, and the Exmark FrontRunner , a front mount commercial
zero-turn radius riding mower with a hydraulic deck lift and fold for enhanced
serviceability. 

  Our compact utility loaders
are cornerstone products for the Toro Sitework Systems product line. These
products are designed to improve efficiency in the creation of landscapes. We
offer over   

3     

35
attachments for our compact utility loaders, including trenchers, augers,
vibratory plows, and backhoes. In fiscal 2006, we introduced two new
diesel-powered compact utility loaders.  

    Sports
Fields and Grounds Market.      Products for the sports fields and grounds market
include riding rotary units with cutting widths ranging from 21 inches to 16
feet, aerators, attachments, and debris management products, which include
versatile debris vacuums, blowers, and sweepers. Other products include multipurpose
vehicles, such as the Workman   , that can be
used for turf maintenance, towing, and industrial hauling. These products are
sold through distributors, who then sell to owners and/or managers of sports
fields, municipal and institutional properties, cemeteries, and facilities such
as airports and corporate headquarters. In fiscal 2006, we introduced the
Infield Pro    3040 and 5040 infield groomers, featuring the
new Quick Attachment System that provides attachment changes without the use of
tools for most of the 17 attachments. 

    Residential/Commercial
Irrigation Market.      Turf
irrigation products marketed under the Toro and Irritrol brand names include
sprinkler heads, brass and plastic valves, and electric and hydraulic control
devices designed to be used in residential and commercial turf irrigation
systems. These products are professionally installed in new systems and can
also be used to replace or retrofit existing systems. Most of the product line
is designed for underground irrigation systems. Electric and hydraulic
controllers activate valves and sprinkler heads in a typical irrigation system.
We also offer wireless rain and freeze switches on some products in an effort
to conserve water usage. Our IntelliSense  and SmartDial  controllers
self-adjust their watering schedules based on current environment conditions.
In fiscal 2006, we introduced the Irritrol    PC Control  residential controller system,
featuring wireless transmission of watering and landscape lighting schedules between
a user s personal computer and the irrigation controller. 

    Golf Course Market.      Products for the golf course market
include large reel and rotary riding products for fairway, rough and trim
cutting; riding and walking mowers for putting greens and specialty areas; turf
sprayer equipment; utility vehicles; turf aerators, including the ProCore    648 walk-behind
aerator; and bunker maintenance equipment. We also manufacture and market underground
irrigation systems, including sprinkler heads and controllers that activate
electric, battery-operated, or hydraulic valves. Our professional irrigation
systems are designed to use computerized management systems and a variety of
technologies to help customers manage their consumption of water. Our 835S/855S
Series golf sprinklers are equipped with a unique TruJectory  feature that
provides enhanced water distribution control as well as uniformity, nozzle
flexibility, and system efficiency. Our Network VP  Satellite also provides an
upgrade path to customers with existing controllers. 

  In fiscal 2006, we
introduced four models to the all-new Reelmaster     5010 Series of fairway mowers, featuring
Dual Precision Adjustment cutting units, improved serviceability and comfort
features, and an optional upgrade that enhances traction and climbing ability
with the CrossTrax    all-wheel drive system. In fiscal 2006, we
also introduced the Sand Pro    3040 and 5040 professional golf course bunker
management machines that feature the new Quick Attachment System that provides
attachment changes without the use of tools for most of the Sand Pro s 17
attachments. In fiscal 2006, we also introduced the Groundsmaster    3280-D compact rotary mowers to our
international markets. 

    Micro-Irrigation
Market.      Products
for the micro-irrigation market include emission devices that regulate flow for
drip irrigation, including Aqua-TraXX    drip tape, patented Aqua-TraXX    PC (pressure-compensating), Blue Stripe    polyethylene
tubing, and Drip In    drip line, all used in agriculture, mining,
and landscape applications. These products are sold primarily through dealers
and distributors who then sell to end users for use primarily in vegetable
fields, fruit and nut orchards, vineyards, and landscapes. In fiscal 2006, we
introduced a product life-cycle management program that includes an
industry-first recycling service and permanent identification for ease of
installation. 

    Residential  
      We
market our residential products to homeowners through a variety of distribution
channels, including dealers, hardware retailers, home centers, mass retailers,
and over the Internet. These products are sold mainly in North America, Europe,
and Australia, with the exception of snow removal products, which are sold
primarily in North America and Europe. We also license our trade name to other
manufacturers and retailers on certain products as a means of expanding our
brand name presence. 

    Walk Power
Mower Products.      We
manufacture and market numerous walk power mower models under our Toro and
Lawn-Boy brand names, as well as the Pope brand name in Australia and the
Hayter brand name in the United Kingdom. Models differ as to cutting width,
type of starter mechanism, ability to mulch, bag or side discharge grass
clippings, cast aluminum or steel decks, controls, and power sources, and are
either self-propelled or push mowers. Toro brand lawn mowers are backed by our  Guaranteed
To Start  program. We also offer a line of rear roller walk power mowers, a design
that provides a striped finish for the United Kingdom market. In fiscal 2006,
we introduced two models of the Eurocycler , an electric mower designed
exclusively for the European homeowner. 

    Riding
Products.      We
manufacture and market riding products under the Toro and Lawn-Boy brand names
and the Hayter brand name in the United Kingdom. Riding mowers and tractors
include a rear engine riding mower manufactured and sold in the European
market; lawn tractor models; and garden tractor models. Many models are
available with a variety of decks and accessories.  

4     

Recycler cutting decks are
available on some models. Models can be equipped with manual, automatic, or
hydrostatic transmissions. In recent years, we introduced a new line of riding
products, the TimeCutter       zero-turning
radius riding mowers. In early fiscal 2007, we introduced four new models to
the TimeCutter    line of zero-turning radius riding mowers,
featuring larger engines and deck options and other enhancements designed to
further reduce mowing time for homeowners. We also manufacture riding mower
products plus attachments for a third party under a private label agreement. In
fiscal 2006, we introduced the LX Series and GT2000 Series value-priced
lawn and garden tractors to the North American market. In fiscal 2006, we also
introduced a new D-Series lawn tractor to the European market, featuring
a larger engine and improved comfort features. 

    Home
Solutions Products.      We
design and market home solutions products under the Toro and Pope brand names,
including electric and battery operated flexible line grass trimmers, electric
blowers, electric blower-vacuums, and electric snow throwers. The versatile
electric Power Shovel Plus is an innovative machine for every season that can
clear snow up to six inches deep and sweep away dirt, leaves, and other debris
from hard surfaces. In fiscal 2007, we introduced three new electric blower-vacuum
models, featuring a more powerful air force and an improved flow rate. 

    Retail
Irrigation Products.      We
design and market underground retail irrigation products under the Toro and
Lawn Genie brand names. In Australia, we also design and market underground and
hose-end retail irrigation products under the Pope brand name. These products
are designed for homeowner installation and include sprinkler heads, valves,
and electronic and mechanical timers. Our ECXTRA  sprinkler timers can be used
with a home computer and our Scheduling Advisor  recommends the proper watering
schedule based on the local weather, plant type, and sprinkler. We also design
and market drip irrigation systems for residential landscapes and gardens. 

    Gas Snow
Removal Products.      We
manufacture and market a range of gas-powered single-stage and two-stage snow
thrower models under the Toro and Lawn-Boy brand names. Single-stage snow
throwers are walk behind units with lightweight two-cycle gasoline engines.
Most single-stage snow thrower models include Power Curve    snow thrower technology. Our large two-stage
snow throwers are designed for relatively large areas of deep, heavy snow falls
and use two- and four-cycle engines, and include a line of innovative models
featuring the Power Max    auger system for enhanced performance and the
Quick Stick    chute control technology. We also manufacture
and market hybrid models with single-stage snow thrower technology that are
self-propelling, providing the operational ease of a single-stage snow thrower
with the power of a two-stage unit. In fiscal 2006, we introduced a new line of
compact two-stage snow throwers. 

   Financial
Information About Foreign Operations   
and Business Segments   

  We manufacture our products in the United States,
Mexico, Australia, Italy, and the United Kingdom for sale throughout the world
and maintain sales offices in the United States, Belgium, the United Kingdom,
France, Australia, Singapore, Japan, China, Italy, and Switzerland. New product
development is pursued primarily in the United States. Our net sales outside
the United States were 27.0 percent, 24.8 percent, and 20.7 percent of total
consolidated net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.  

  A portion of our cash flow
is derived from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies. To
reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency exchange rate movements on these sales
and purchase commitments, we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts for
select transactions. For additional information regarding our foreign currency
exchange contracts, see Item 7A entitled  Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk.  For additional financial information regarding
our foreign operations and each of our segments, see Note 11 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements entitled  Segment Data,  included in Item 8
of Part II of this report.  

   Manufacturing
and Production     

  In some areas of our business, we are primarily an
assembler, while in others we serve as a fully integrated manufacturer. We have
strategically identified specific core manufacturing competencies for vertical
integration and have chosen outside vendors to provide other services. We
design component parts in cooperation with our vendors, contract with them for
the development of tooling, and then enter into agreements with these vendors
to purchase component parts manufactured using the tooling. In addition, our
vendors regularly test new technologies to be applied to the design and
production of component parts. Manufacturing operations include robotic and
computer-automated equipment to speed production, reduce costs, and improve the
quality, fit, and finish of products. Operations are also designed to be
flexible enough to accommodate product design changes required to respond to
market demand.  

  In order to utilize our manufacturing facilities and
technology more effectively, we pursue continuous improvements in our manufacturing
processes with the use of Lean methods, which are intended to streamline work
and eliminate waste. We have some flexible assembly lines that can handle a
wide product mix and deliver products when customers require them. Additionally,
we spend considerable effort to reduce manufacturing costs through Lean methods
and process improvement, product and platform design, application of advanced
technology, enhanced environmental management systems, SKU consolidation,
safety improvements, and better supply-chain management. We also manufacture
products sold under a private label agreement to a third party on a competitive
basis, and we have agreements with   

5     

other third party
manufacturers to manufacture products on our behalf.  

  Our professional products are manufactured throughout
the year. Our residential spring and summer products are also generally
manufactured throughout the year. However, our residential fall and winter
products are generally manufactured in the summer and fall months. Our products
are tested in conditions and locations similar to those in which they are used.
We use computer-aided design and manufacturing systems to shorten the time
between initial concept and final production.  

  Our production levels and
inventory management goals are based on estimates of demand for our products,
taking into account production capacity, timing of shipments, and field
inventory levels. We also periodically shut down production to allow for maintenance,
rearrangement, and capital equipment installation at our manufacturing
facilities. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2007 are expected to be
approximately $45 to $50 million, which is $5 to $10 million higher than fiscal
2006 capital expenditures as we expect to continue to invest in manufacturing
equipment and tooling for new products.  

   Engineering
and Research     

  We are committed to an ongoing engineering program
dedicated to developing innovative new products and improvements in the quality
and performance of existing products. However, a focus on innovation also
carries certain risks that new technology will be slow to be or not accepted by
the marketplace. We attempt to mitigate this risk through our focus on and
commitment to understanding our customers  needs and requirements. We are investing
more time upfront with customers, using  Voice of the Customer  tools to ensure
we develop innovative products that will be valued by our customers. We are
also utilizing Design for Manufacturing and Assembly (DFMA) tools and enhancing
our New Product Development System to ensure early manufacturing involvement in
new product designs to reduce product cost. DFMA focuses on reducing the number
of parts required to assemble new products as well as designing products to
move more efficiently through the manufacturing process. We are also making
several improvements to our engineering process as part of our Lean
initiatives.  

  Our engineering expenses are
primarily incurred in connection with the development of new products that may
have additional applications or represent extensions of existing product lines,
improvements to existing products, and cost reduction efforts. Our expenditures
for engineering and research were approximately $57.3 million (3.1 percent of
net sales) in fiscal 2006, $52.6 million (3.0 percent of net sales) in fiscal
2005, and $48.0 million (2.9 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2004. In fiscal
2007, we anticipate engineering and research costs to increase compared to
fiscal 2006 as we plan to continue to invest in new product development.  

   Raw Materials     

  Most of the components of our products are
commercially available from a number of sources and are in adequate supply.
Therefore, we are generally not dependent on any one supplier, except for
engines from Japanese suppliers used in some of our professional segment
products.  

  In fiscal 2006, we experienced no significant work
stoppages as a result of shortages of raw materials or commodities. The
highest value component costs are generally engines, steel, transmissions,
transaxles, hydraulics, electric motors, and plastic resin purchased from
several suppliers around the world. We have some long-term commitments for the
purchase of various component parts and raw materials that management believes
are unlikely to be terminated prematurely.  

  During fiscal 2006, we
continued to experience an increase in commodity costs, which resulted in a
negative impact on our gross margins and net earnings. We have offset and
expect to continue to mitigate in part the impact of these increased costs
through internal cost reduction efforts, vendor negotiations, alternative
sourcing options, and by recovering a portion of these costs with price
increases to customers.  

   Service and
Warranty     

  Our products are warranted
to ensure customer confidence in design, workmanship, and overall quality.
Warranty length varies depending on whether product usage is for  residential 
or  professional  applications within individual product lines. Some products
have an over-the-counter exchange option and some have a 30-day satisfaction
guarantee. Warranty coverage ranges from a period of six months to seven years,
and generally covers parts, labor, and other expenses for non-maintenance
repairs, provided operator abuse, improper use, or negligence did not
necessitate the repair. An authorized Toro, Lawn-Boy, Hayter, or Exmark
distributor or dealer must perform warranty work. Distributors, dealers, and
contractors submit claims for warranty reimbursement and are credited for the
cost of repairs, labor, and other expenses as long as the repairs meet our
prescribed standards. Warranty expense is accrued at the time of sale based on,
among other factors, historical claims experience by individual product lines.
Warranty reserves are also accrued for major rework campaigns and product recalls.
Service support outside of the warranty period is provided by independent Toro,
Lawn-Boy, Hayter, or Exmark distributors and dealers at the customer s expense.
We also sell extended warranty coverage on select products for a prescribed
period after the original factory warranty period expires.  

   Product
Liability     

  We have rigorous product
safety standards and work continually to improve the safety and reliability of
our products. We monitor accidents and possible claims and establish liability
estimates with respect to claims based on internal evaluations of the merits of

6     

individual claims. We
purchase excess insurance coverage for catastrophic product liability claims
for incidents that exceed our self-insured retention levels.  

   Patents     

  We hold patents in the United States and foreign
countries and apply for patents as applicable. Although we believe our patents
are valuable and patent protection is beneficial, our patent protection does
not deter or prevent competitors from attempting to develop similar products.
We are not materially dependent on any one or more of our patents.  

  To prevent possible
infringement of our patents by others, we periodically review competitors 
products. To avoid potential liability with respect to others  patents, we
regularly review certain patents issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
and foreign patent offices. We believe these activities help us minimize our
risk of being a defendant in patent infringement litigation. We are currently
involved in patent litigation cases, both where we are asserting patents and
where we are defending against charges of infringement. While the ultimate
results of the current cases are unknown at this time, we believe that the
outcome of these cases is unlikely to have a material effect on our
consolidated financial results.  

   Seasonality     

  Sales of our residential products, which accounted for
approximately 31 percent of total consolidated net sales in fiscal 2006, are
seasonal, with sales of lawn and garden products occurring primarily between February and
May, and sales of snow removal equipment occurring primarily between July and
January. Opposite seasons in some global markets somewhat moderate this seasonality
of residential product sales. Seasonality of professional product sales also
exists, but is tempered because the selling season in the West Coast, Southern
states, and our markets in the Southern hemisphere such as Australia, Latin
America, and Asia continues for a longer portion of the year than in Northern regions
of the world.  

  Overall, worldwide sales levels are historically
highest in our fiscal second quarter and retail demand is generally highest in
our fiscal third quarter. Typically, accounts receivable balances increase
between January and April as a result of higher sales volumes and
extended payment terms made available to our customers. Accounts receivable
balances decrease between May and December when payments are
received. Our financing requirements are subject to variations due to seasonal
changes in working capital levels, which typically increase in the first half
of our fiscal year and then decrease in the second half of our fiscal year.
Seasonal cash requirements of our business are financed from operations and
with our bank credit lines. Peak borrowing generally occurs between February and
May.  

  The
following table shows total consolidated net sales and net earnings for each
quarter as a percentage of the total fiscal year.  

Effects of Weather     

  From time to time, weather
conditions in a particular region or market may adversely affect sales of some
of our products and field inventory levels, and result in a negative impact on
our future net sales. As the percentage of our net sales from outside the
United States has continued to increase, our dependency on weather in any one
part of the world has decreased. Nonetheless, weather conditions could
materially affect our future net sales.  

   Distribution and Marketing     

  We market the majority of our products through
approximately 50 domestic and 100 foreign distributors, as well as a number of
hardware retailers, home centers, and mass retailers in more than 90 countries
worldwide.  

  Toro and Lawn-Boy residential products, such as walk
power mowers, riding products, and snow throwers, are sold to distributors,
including Toro-owned distributors, for resale to retail dealers throughout the
United States. Walk power mowers, snow throwers, and riding products are also
sold directly to dealers, hardware retailers, home centers, and mass retailers.
Home solutions products and retail irrigation products are primarily sold
directly to home centers, mass retailers, hardware retailers, and dealers. We
also sell selected residential products over the Internet, mainly through
Internet retailers. Internationally, residential products are sold direct to
retail dealers and mass merchandisers in Australia, Belgium, Canada, and the
United Kingdom. In most other countries, products are mainly sold to
distributors for resale to dealers and mass merchandisers.  

  Worldwide, professional products are sold mainly to
distributors for resale to dealers, sports complexes, industrial facilities, contractors,
municipalities, rental stores, and golf courses. We also sell some professional
segment products directly to government customers and rental companies.
Selected residential/commercial irrigation products are also sold directly to
professional irrigation distributors. Compact utility loaders and attachments
are sold directly to dealers and large rental companies. Beginning in fiscal
2006, we sold Exmark products direct to dealers in certain regions of the
United States.  

  We currently own two domestic distribution companies.
Our primary purposes in owning domestic distributorships are to facilitate
ownership transfers while improving operations, and test   

7     

and deploy new strategies
and business practices that could be replicated by our independent
distributors. These distribution companies sell professional and residential
products directly to retail dealers and customers in the United States and a
majority of their revenues are derived from Toro-manufactured products.  

  Our distribution systems are intended to assure
quality of sales and market presence as well as effective after-purchase
service and support. We consider our distribution network to be a competitive
advantage in marketing and selling our products.  

  Our current marketing strategy is to maintain distinct
brands and brand identification for Toro    ,
Lawn-Boy   , Exmark   ,
Lawn Genie   , Irritrol   ,
Hayter   , and Pope    products. 

  We advertise our residential
products during appropriate seasons throughout the year on television, radio,
in print, and via the Internet. Professional products are advertised in print
and through direct mail programs, as well as on the Internet. Most of our advertising
emphasizes our brand names. Advertising is purchased by the company as well as
through cooperative programs with distributors, dealers, hardware retailers,
home centers, and mass retailers.  

   Customers     

  Overall, we believe that in
the long-term we are not dependent on any single customer. However, The Home
Depot accounted for greater than 10 percent of our total consolidated net sales
in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004. The residential segment of our business is
dependent on The Home Depot as a customer. While the loss of any substantial
customer could have a material short-term impact on our business, we believe
that our diverse distribution channels and customer base should reduce the
long-term impact of any such loss.  

   Backlog of Orders     

  The approximate backlog of
orders believed to be firm as of October 31, 2006 and 2005 was $120.6
million and $117.6 million, respectively, an increase of 2.5 percent. We expect
the existing backlog of orders will be filled in early fiscal 2007.  

   Competition     

  Our products are sold in highly competitive markets
throughout the world. The principal competitive factors in our markets are
pricing, product innovation, quality and reliability, product support and
customer service, warranty, reputation, distribution, shelf space, and
financing options. Pricing has become an increasingly important competitive
factor for a majority of our products. We believe we offer total solutions and
full service packages with high quality products that have the latest
technology and design innovations. Also, by selling our products through a
network of distributors, dealers, hardware retailers, home centers, and mass
retailers, we offer comprehensive service support during and after the warranty
period. We compete in many product lines with numerous manufacturers, many of
who have substantially greater financial resources than we do. We believe that
we have a competitive advantage because we manufacture a broad range of product
lines, we are committed to product innovation and customer service, we focus on
Lean manufacturing methods, we have a strong focus in maintaining landscapes,
and our distribution channels position us well to compete in various markets.  

  Internationally, residential
segment products face more competition where foreign competitors manufacture
and market products in their respective countries. We experience this
competition primarily in Europe and Asia. In addition, fluctuations in the
value of the U.S. dollar may affect the price of our products in foreign
markets, thereby impacting their competitiveness. We provide pricing support to
foreign customers, as needed, to remain competitive in international markets.  

   Environmental Matters and   
Other Governmental Regulation   

  We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state,
and other governmental laws, rules, and regulations. These laws, rules, and
regulations may affect the way we conduct our operations, and failure to comply
with these regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. We are also
involved in the evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of properties
currently and previously owned. We do not expect that these matters will have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of
operations.  

  The European Union (EU) has adopted the following
environmental directives: Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and
Restriction on the use of Hazardous Substances (RoHS). Both directives are
being transposed into legislation of the 25 EU member states. The WEEE
directive mandates the labeling, collection, and disposal of electrical and electronic
equipment. The RoHS directive bans the sale of electrical and electronic equipment
containing certain hazardous substances, such as lead, mercury, chromium,
cadmium, and brominated-flame retardants. We believe that we are in substantial
compliance with these regulations.  

  The United States Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) and the California Air Resources Board (CARB) have adopted emission regulations
setting maximum emission standards for certain off-road equipment. New engine
emission regulations are being phased in by the federal government and the
State of California. Our products are also subject to international laws and
regulations related to emissions in places where we sell our products outside
the United States. We are currently unable to predict the ultimate impact of
the adopted and proposed regulations on our business.  

  Our residential products are
subject to various United States statutes designed to protect consumers and are
subject to the administrative jurisdiction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
We are also subject to international, federal and state   

8     

environmental,
occupational safety, transportation, and other regulations. We believe we are
in substantial compliance with all such regulations, of which none has had a
material adverse effect on our operations or business.  

   Customer Financing     

    Wholesale Financing      Toro
Credit Company, our wholly owned finance subsidiary, provides financing for
select products we manufacture for North American Toro distributors and approximately
200 selected U.S. dealers. Toro Credit Company purchases select receivables
from us and our distributors for extended periods that assist the distributors
and dealers to carry representative inventories of equipment. Down payments are
not required and, depending on the finance program for each product line,
finance charges are incurred by us, shared between us and the distributor
and/or the dealer, or paid by the distributor or dealer. A security interest is
retained in the distributors  and dealers  inventories, and periodic physical
checks are made of those inventories. Terms to the distributors and dealers
require payment as the equipment, which secures the indebtedness, is sold to
customers, or when payment terms become due, whichever occurs first. Rates are
based on prime rate plus a fixed percentage that differs based on whether the
financing is for a distributor or dealer. Rates may also vary based on the
product that is financed. 

  Independent Toro dealers
that do not finance through Toro Credit Company finance their inventories with
third party sources. The finance charges represent interest for a
pre-established length of time based on a predefined rate by a contract with
third party financing sources. Exmark and some international products sold
through dealers are financed primarily with third party financing sources or by
the distributor.  

    End-User Financing      We have agreements with a third party
financing company to provide lease-financing options to golf course and sports fields and grounds equipment
customers and micro-irrigation customers in North America and Europe. The
purpose of these agreements is to increase sales by giving buyers of our
products alternative financing options when purchasing our products. 

  We also have a multi-year
agreement with a third party financing company to provide financing programs
under a private label program in the U.S. This program, offered primarily to
Toro and Exmark dealers, provides end-user customers a revolving line of credit
for Toro and Exmark products, parts, and services.  

    Distributor
Financing      We enter into long-term loan
agreements with some distributors. These transactions are used for expansion of
the distributors  businesses, acquisitions, refinancing working capital
agreements, or ownership changes. 

   Employees     

  During fiscal 2006, we
employed an average of 5,343 employees. The total number of employees as of October 31,
2006 was 5,262. We consider our employee relations to be good. Three collective
bargaining agreements cover approximately 16 percent of these employees. These
three agreements expire in October 2007, October 2008, and May 2009.
From time to time, we also retain consultants, independent contractors, and
temporary and part-time workers.  

   Available Information     

    Filings with the SEC      We
are a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
and file reports, proxy statements, and other information with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies of these reports, proxy statements, and
other information can be inspected and copied at the SEC s Public Reference Room at
100 F Street N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the
SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Because we make filings to the SEC electronically,
you may also access this information from the SEC s home page on the Internet
at http://www.sec.gov. 

  We make available, free of
charge on our Internet web site www.thetorocompany.com, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K,
proxy statements on Schedule 14A, amendments to those reports, and other
documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to,
the SEC. The information contained on our web site or connected to our web site
is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K
and should not be considered part of this report.  

    Corporate Governance      We
have a Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers and a Code of
Conduct for all employees. Copies of these codes are posted on our website at www.thetorocompany.com  
select the  Investor Information  link and then the  Corporate Governance 
link. If we amend or grant any waivers to the code that are applicable to our
executive officers, which we do not anticipate doing, we have committed that we
will post the amendments or waivers on our website under  Corporate Governance.  

  We also make available, free of charge on our web site
www.thetorocompany.com (select the  Investor Information  link and then the  Corporate
Governance  link) and in print to any stockholder who requests, our corporate
governance guidelines and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation and
Human Resources Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board
of Directors. Requests for copies can be directed to Investor Relations, telephone:
952-887-7141.  

9     

We have furnished to the SEC
the required certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 regarding the quality of our public disclosures as Exhibits 31(a) and
31(b) to this report. We have filed with the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) the CEO certification regarding our compliance with the NYSE s corporate
governance listing standards as required by NYSE Rule 3030A.12(a) on March 17,
2006.  

   Forward-Looking Statements     

  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains,
or incorporates by reference, not only historical information, but also forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, and that are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections.
In addition, we or others on our behalf may make forward-looking statements
from time to time in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or
web casts open to the public, in press releases or reports, on our Internet web
sites or otherwise. Statements that are not historical are forward-looking and
reflect expectations and assumptions. We try to identify forward-looking
statements in this report and elsewhere by using words such as  expect ,  looking
ahead ,  anticipate ,  plan ,  estimate ,  believe ,  should ,  may ,  intend ,
and similar expressions. Our forward-looking statements generally relate to our
future performance, including our anticipated operating results and liquidity
requirements, our business strategies and goals, and the effect of laws, rules,
regulations as well as new accounting pronouncements and outstanding
litigation, on our business, operating results, and financial condition.  

  Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include factors that affect all businesses operating
in a global market as well as matters specific to Toro. The most significant
factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business,
operations, industry, financial position, or future financial performance are described
later in this report under the heading entitled  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  We
wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking
statement which speaks only as of the date made and to recognize that
forward-looking statements are predictions of future results, which may not
occur as anticipated. Actual results could differ materially from those
anticipated in the forward-looking statements and from historical results, due
to the risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this report, including
under the heading entitled  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  as well as others that we
may consider immaterial or do not anticipate at this time. The risks and
uncertainties described in this report, including those under the heading
entitled  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  are not exclusive and further information
concerning our company and our businesses, including factors that potentially
could materially affect our financial results or condition, may emerge from
time to time.  

  We assume no obligation to update forward-looking
statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions
affecting such forward-looking statements. We advise you, however, to consult
any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our future quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that
we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

10  

item 1A. Risk factors     

  The following are
significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our
business, operations, industry, financial position, or future financial
performance.  

    Changes in economic conditions in the United States and around the
world could adversely affect our net sales.    

  The demand for our products
is dependent upon economic conditions, including but not limited to economic
growth rates; slow downs or reductions in home ownership, construction, and
home sales; consumer spending levels; employment rates; interest rates;
inflation; and consumer confidence in the United States and the foreign
economies in which we conduct business. Inflationary pressures, higher fuel
prices, and higher short-term and mortgage interest rates could cause consumers
to reduce spending, which could have an adverse effect on our net sales and earnings.  

    Increases in the cost and availability of raw materials and components
that we purchase and increases in our other costs of doing business, such as
transportation costs, may adversely affect our profit margins and business.    

  We purchase raw materials,
such as steel, fuel, petroleum-based resins, and other commodities, and
components, such as engines, transmissions, transaxles, hydraulics, and electric
motors, for use in our products. Increases in the cost of such raw materials
and components may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass
along any cost increases in the form of price increases or otherwise reduce our
cost of goods sold. In the past, the benefits from our Lean manufacturing
initiative, as well as the implementation of other productivity improvement
initiatives and price increases on some of our products, have offset a portion
of increased raw material and component costs. However, we cannot commit that
we will be able to continue to do so in the future. Although most of the raw
materials and components of our products are commercially available from a
number of sources and in adequate supply, any disruption in the availability of
such raw materials and components, our inability to obtain substitutes for such
items, or any deterioration in our relationships with our suppliers could
adversely affect our business. Increases in our other costs of doing business
may also adversely affect our profit margins and business. For example, an
increase in fuel costs may also result in an increase in our transportation
costs, which also could adversely affect our operating results and business.  

    Weather conditions may reduce demand for some of our products and
adversely affect our net sales.    

  From time to time, weather
conditions in a particular region or market may adversely affect sales of some
of our products and field inventory levels. For example, in the past, drought
conditions have had an adverse effect on sales of certain mowing equipment products,
unusually rainy weather or severe drought conditions that result in watering
bans have had an adverse effect on sales of our irrigation products, and lower
snow fall accumulations have had an adverse effect on sales of our snow thrower
products.  

    Our professional segment net sales are dependent upon the level of
growth in the residential and commercial construction markets, growth of
homeowners  outsourcing lawn care, the amount of investment in golf course
renovations and improvements, new golf course development, and the amount of
government spending.    

  Our professional segment
products are sold by distributors or dealers, or sold directly to government
customers, rental companies, and professional users engaged in maintaining and
creating landscapes, such as golf courses, sports fields, municipal properties,
and residential and commercial landscapes. Our professional segment net sales,
therefore, are dependent upon the level of growth in residential and commercial
construction markets, growth of homeowners  outsourcing lawn care, the amount
of investment in golf course renovations and improvements, new golf course
construction, and the amount of government spending. Reduced tax revenue, increased
expenses, and tighter government budgets generally result in reduced government
spending for grounds maintenance equipment, which could have an adverse effect
on our professional segment net sales. In addition, a slow rate of growth in
golf rounds played that impacts revenue for golf courses could adversely affect
our sales of golf course equipment and irrigation products.  

    Our residential segment net sales are dependent upon the amount of
product placement at retailers, changing buying patterns of customers, and The
Home Depot, Inc. as a major customer.    

  The elimination or reduction
of shelf space assigned to our products by retailers could adversely affect our
residential segment net sales. Our residential segment net sales are also
dependent upon changing buying patterns of customers. For example, in the last
decade, there has been a trend away from purchases at dealer outlets and
hardware retailers to price and value sensitive purchases at home centers and
mass retailers. This trend has resulted in a demand for residential products
purchased at retailers, such as The Home Depot, which accounted for a greater
percentage of our net sales in the past few fiscal years compared   

11     

to our net sales during and
prior to the 1990 s. The Home Depot accounted for greater than 10 percent of
our total consolidated net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004. We believe
that our diverse distribution channels and customer base should reduce the
impact on us if we were to lose The Home Depot or any other substantial
customer. However, the loss of any substantial customer or a significant
reduction in sales to The Home Depot or other customers could have a material impact
on our business and operating results. Changing buying patterns of customers
also could result in reduced sales of one or more of our residential segment
products, resulting in increased inventory levels. Although our residential
spring and summer products are generally manufactured throughout the year, our
residential fall and winter products are generally manufactured in the summer
and fall months. Our production levels and inventory management goals are based
on estimates of demand for our products, taking into account production
capacity, timing of shipments, and field inventory levels. If we overestimate
or underestimate demand during a given season, we may have excess or
insufficient inventories.  

    If we are unable to continue to enhance existing products and develop
and market new products that respond to customer needs and achieve market
acceptance, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products, and our
business could suffer.    

  One of our growth strategies
is to develop innovative, customer-valued products to generate revenue growth.
Our sales from new products in the past have represented a significant
component of our net sales and are expected to continue to represent a significant
component of our future net sales. We may not be able to compete as effectively
with our competitors, and ultimately satisfy our customers, unless we can continue
to enhance existing products and develop new innovative products in the markets
in which we compete. Product development requires significant financial,
technological, and other resources. Although in the past we have implemented
Lean manufacturing and other productivity improvement initiatives to provide
investment funding for new products, we cannot be certain that we will be able
to continue to do so in the future. Product improvements and new product introductions
also require significant planning, design, development, and testing at the
technological, product, and manufacturing process levels and we may not be able
to timely develop product improvements or new products. Our competitors 
new products may beat our products to market, may be more effective with more
features and/or less expensive than our products or render our products
obsolete. Any new products that we may develop may not receive market
acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful net sales or profits for us
relative to our expectations, based on, among other things, existing and anticipated
investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising,
marketing, promotional programs, and research and development.  

    We face intense competition in all of our product lines with numerous
manufacturers, including from some that have greater financial and other
resources than we do. We may not be able to compete effectively against
competitors  actions, which could harm our business and operating results.    

  Our products are sold in
highly competitive markets throughout the world. Principal competitive factors
in our markets include pricing, product innovation, quality and reliability,
product support and customer service, warranty, reputation, distribution, shelf
space, and financing options. We compete in all of our product lines with
numerous manufacturers, some who have substantially greater financial,
marketing, and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to
adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer
requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their
products than we can. In addition, competition could increase if new
companies enter the market or if existing competitors expand their product
lines or intensify efforts within existing product lines. Our current
products, products under development, and our ability to develop new and
improved products may be insufficient to enable us to compete effectively with
our competitors. Internationally, our residential segment products typically
face more competition where foreign competitors manufacture and market products
in their respective countries. We experience this competition primarily in
Europe and Asia. In addition, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may
affect the price of our products in foreign markets, thereby impacting their competitiveness.
Pricing has become an increasingly important competitive factor for many of our
products. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors 
actions, which could harm our business and operating results.  

    A significant percentage of our consolidated net sales is generated
outside of the United States, and we intend to continue to expand our
international operations. Our international operations require significant
management attention and financial resources, expose us to difficulties
presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting, and business
factors, and may not be successful or produce desired levels of net sales.    

  We
manufacture our products in the United States, Mexico, Australia, the United
Kingdom, and Italy for sale throughout the world and maintain sales offices in
the United States, Belgium, the United Kingdom, France, Australia, Singapore,
Japan, China, Italy, and Switzerland. Our net sales outside the United States
were 27.0 percent, 24.8 percent, and 20.7 percent of our total   

12     

consolidated
net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. International markets
have in the past and will continue to be a focus for us to grow our revenues.
For example, in February 2005, we completed the acquisition of certain
assets and assumed certain liabilities of Hayter Limited, a company located in
the United Kingdom that designs, manufactures, and markets residential and
professional turf maintenance equipment, primarily for the United Kingdom
market. We believe many opportunities exist in the international markets, and
our goal is for international net sales to comprise a larger percentage of our
total consolidated net sales. The expansion of our existing international
operations and entry into additional international markets requires significant
management attention and financial resources. Many of the countries in which we
sell our products or otherwise have an international presence are, to some
degree, subject to political, economic, and/or social instability. Our
international operations expose us and our representatives, agents, and
distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These
risks include:  

             increased
costs of customizing products for foreign countries; 

             difficulties
in managing and staffing international operations and increases in
infrastructure costs including legal, tax, accounting, and information technology; 

             the
imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations;
new trade restrictions and restrictions on the activities of foreign agents,
representatives, and distributors; and the imposition of increases in costly
and lengthy export licensing requirements, customs duties and tariffs, license
obligations, and other non-tariff barriers to trade; 

             the
imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company,
person, or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit our
continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person, or entity; 

             international
pricing pressures; 

             laws
and business practices favoring local companies; 

             adverse
currency exchange rate fluctuations; 

             longer
payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting
receivables through certain foreign legal systems; 

             difficulties
in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; and 

             multiple,
changing, and often inconsistent enforcement of laws, rules, and regulations,
including, in particular, rules relating to environmental, health, and
safety matters. 

  Our operations in other
countries may not produce desired levels of net sales or one or more of the
factors listed above may harm our business and operating results. Any material
decrease in our international sales or profitability could also adversely
impact our operating results.  

    Fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported net
sales and net earnings.    

  Because the functional
currency of our foreign operations is the applicable local currency, we are
exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the
normal course of business, such as sales and loans to wholly owned subsidiaries
as well as sales to third party customers, purchases from suppliers, and bank
lines of credit with creditors denominated in foreign currencies. Our reported
net sales and net earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange
rates. Because our products are manufactured or sourced primarily from the
United States, a stronger U.S. dollar generally has a negative impact on
results from operations outside the United States while a weaker dollar
generally has a positive effect. Our primary exchange rate exposure is with the
Euro, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, the
Mexican peso, and the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar. While we actively
manage the exposure of our foreign currency market risk in the normal course of
business by entering into various foreign exchange contracts, these instruments
may not effectively limit our underlying exposure from currency fluctuations or
minimize our net earnings and cash volatility associated with foreign currency
exchange rate changes.  

    We manufacture
our products at and distribute our products from several locations in the
United States and internationally. Any disruption at any of these facilities or
our inability to cost-effectively expand existing and move production between
manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business and operating
results.    

  We
manufacture most of our products at seven locations in the United States, two
locations in Mexico, and one location in each of Australia, Italy, and the
United Kingdom. We also have several locations that serve as distribution
centers, warehouses, test facilities, and corporate offices. Our facilities may
be affected by natural or man-made disasters. In the event one of our
manufacturing facilities was affected by a disaster, we could be forced to
shift production to one of our other manufacturing facilities. Although we
purchase insurance for damage to our property and disruption of our business
from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our
potential losses. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an
adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products
or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient
inventory, and therefore may adversely affect our net sales and operating
results. Any disruption or delay at our manufacturing facilities, including a
strike at any one of our three facilities operating under a collective
bargaining agreement or the failure to renew or enter into a new collective
bargaining agreement, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our   

13     

customers
and our customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors,
which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operating
results may also be adversely affected if we are unable to cost-effectively
expand existing and move production between manufacturing facilities as needed
from time to time.  

    We intend to
grow our business through additional acquisitions and alliances, stronger
customer relations, and new partnerships, which are risky and could harm our
business.    

  One of our growth
strategies is to drive growth in our businesses and accelerate opportunities to
expand our global presence through targeted acquisitions, alliances, stronger
customer relations, and new partnerships that complement our existing brands
and product portfolio. In February 2005, we completed the acquisition of
certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Hayter Limited in the United
Kingdom. The benefits of an acquisition or new partnership may take more time
than expected to develop or integrate into our operations, and we cannot
guarantee that our Hayter acquisition or any future acquisitions, alliances, or
joint ventures will in fact produce any benefits. In addition, acquisitions, alliances,
joint ventures, and partnerships involve a number of risks, including:  

             diversion
of management s attention; 

             difficulties
in assimilating the operations and products of an acquired business or in
realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings, and synergies; 

             potential
loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses or adverse
effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; 

             adverse
impact on overall profitability if acquired businesses do not achieve the
financial results projected in our valuation models; 

             reallocation
of amounts of capital from other operating initiatives and/or an increase in
our leverage and debt service requirements to pay the acquisition purchase
prices, which could in turn restrict our ability to access additional capital
when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy; 

             inaccurate
assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems,
unanticipated costs associated with an acquisition, and an inability to recover
or manage such liabilities and costs; and 

             incorrect
estimates made in the accounting for acquisitions, incurrence of non-recurring
charges, and write-off of significant amounts of goodwill or other assets that
could adversely affect our operating results. 

  Our ability to grow through
acquisitions will depend, in part, on the availability of suitable acquisition
candidates at an acceptable price, our ability to compete effectively for these
acquisition candidates, and the availability of capital and personnel to
complete such acquisitions and run the acquired business effectively. These
risks could be heightened if we complete a large acquisition or several acquisitions
within a relatively short period of time. In addition, some acquisitions may
require the consent of the lenders under our credit agreements. We cannot
predict whether such approvals would be forthcoming or the terms on which the
lenders would approve such acquisitions. Any potential acquisition could impair
our operating results.  

    We rely on our management information systems for inventory management,
distribution, and other functions. If our information systems fail to
adequately perform these functions or if we experience an interruption in their
operation, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.    

  The efficient operation of
our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely on our
management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial
functions, manage manufacturing and supply chain processes, and maintain our
research and development data. The failure of our management information
systems to perform properly could disrupt our business and product development
and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess
inventory, and product shortages, causing our business and operating results to
suffer. In addition, our management information systems, including our computer
systems, Internet web sites, telecommunications, and data networks, are
vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters,
terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers, or power loss.
Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and operating results.  

    A significant portion of our net sales are financed by third parties.
Some Toro dealers and Exmark distributors and dealers finance their inventories
with third party financing sources. The termination of our agreements with
these third parties, any material change to the terms of our agreements with
these third parties or in the availability or terms of credit offered to our
customers by these third parties, or any delay in securing replacement credit
sources, could adversely affect our sales and operating results.    

  Some Toro
and Lawn-Boy dealers and Exmark distributors and dealers generally finance
their inventories with third party financing companies. These third party
financing companies purchase select receivables from us and our distributors
and dealers for extended periods that assist our distributors and dealers in
carrying representative inventories of our products. We also have agreements
with third party financing companies to provide financing options to golf
course and sports fields and grounds   

14     

equipment
customers and micro-irrigation customers in North America and Europe. The
purpose of these agreements is to increase our net sales by giving buyers of
our products alternative financing options when purchasing our products. We
also have an agreement with a third party financing company to provide
financing programs under a private label program offered primarily to Toro,
Lawn-Boy, and Exmark dealers that provides our end-user customers a revolving
line of credit for Toro and Exmark products, parts, and services. Termination
of our agreements with these third parties, any material change to the terms of
our agreements with these third parties or in the availability or terms of
credit for our customers from these third parties, or any delay in securing
replacement credit sources, could adversely affect our operating results.  

    Our reliance upon patents, trademark laws, and contractual provisions
to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual
property from others who may sell similar products.    

  We hold patents relating to various aspects of our
products and believe that proprietary technical know-how is important to our
business generally as well as many of our products. Proprietary rights
relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties
only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or
are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. We cannot be certain that
we will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications
owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents
will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In the absence of
enforceable patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt
to copy our products or gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. Our
competitors may initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents,
or they may use their resources to design comparable products that do not
infringe our patents. We may incur substantial costs if our competitors
initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or if we initiate
any proceedings to protect our proprietary rights, and if the outcome of any
such litigation is unfavorable to us, our business and operating results could
be adversely affected. There may also be pending or issued patents held by
parties not affiliated with us that relate to our products or technologies, and
we may need to acquire licenses to any such patents to continue selling some or
all of our products. If we had to obtain any such license in order to be
able to continue to sell some or all of our products, we may not be able to do
so on terms that were favorable to us, if at all.  

  In addition, we rely on
trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by
confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. These
agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such
breach. Even if these confidentiality agreements are not breached, our
trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by
competitors.  

    Our business, properties, and products are subject to governmental
regulation with which compliance may require us to incur expenses or modify our
products or operations and may expose us to penalties for non-compliance.
Governmental regulation may also adversely affect the demand for some of our
products and our operating results.    

  Our business, properties,
and products are subject to a wide variety of international, federal, state and
local laws, rules and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment, natural resources, and worker and product user health and safety,
and the use, management, storage, and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes,
and other regulated materials. These laws, rules, and regulations may affect
the way we conduct our operations, and the failure to comply with these
regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. Because we own and lease
real property, various environmental laws also may impose liability on us for
the costs of cleaning up and responding to hazardous substances that may have
been released on our property, including releases unknown to us. These
environmental laws and regulations also could require us to pay for
environmental remediation and response costs at third-party locations where we
disposed of or recycled hazardous substances. We are currently involved in the
evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of properties we either currently
or previously owned. Although we do not expect that these current matters will
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or
operating results, our future costs of complying with the various environmental
requirements, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could
adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We are also
subject to other international, federal and state laws, rules and regulations,
the future non-compliance with which may harm our business or may adversely
affect the demand for some of our products. For example, our residential
products are subject to various United States statutes designed to protect
consumers and are subject to the administrative jurisdiction of the Consumer
Product Safety Commission. The United States Environmental Protection Agency
and California Air Resources Board adopted emissions regulations setting
maximum emission standards for certain off-road equipment. The European Union
also adopted environmental directives that mandate the labeling, collection, and
disposal of electrical and electronic equipment and bans the sale of electrical
and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous substances. In addition,
governmental restrictions placed on water usage as well as water availability
may adversely affect demand for our irrigation products. Changes in laws and
regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation changes,
including tax rate changes, new tax   

15     

laws, and revised tax law
interpretations, also may adversely affect our operating results.  

    We are subject to product liability claims, product quality issues, and
other litigation from time to time that could adversely affect our operating
results or financial condition.    

  The manufacture, sale, and usage of our products
expose us to significant risk of product liability claims. If a product
liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured
liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage and it is ultimately
determined that we are liable, our business could suffer. While we instruct our
customers on the proper usage of our products, we cannot ensure that they will
implement our instructions accurately. If our products are defective or used
incorrectly by our customers, injury may result and this could give rise to
product liability claims against us. Any losses that we may suffer from any
liability claims, and the effect that any product liability litigation may have
upon the reputation and marketability of our products, may divert management s
attention from other matters and may have a negative impact on our business and
operating results. Some of our products or product improvements were developed
relatively recently and defects or risks that we have not yet identified may
give rise to product liability claims. Additionally, we could experience a material
design or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure,
other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny that could warrant a
recall of some of our products. A recall of some of our products could also
result in increased product liability claims. Unforeseen product quality
problems in the development and production of new and existing products could
also result in loss of market share, reduced sales, and higher warranty expense.  

  We are also subject to other
litigation from time to time that could adversely affect our operating results
or financial condition. For example, we are currently one of nine defendants in
a purported class action in which the plaintiffs are alleging that the
horsepower labels on the products the plaintiffs purchased were inaccurate. The
amended complaint asserts violations of the federal Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act and statutory and common law claims arising
from the laws of 48 states. The amended complaint seeks an injunction, unspecified
compensatory and punitive damages, treble damages under the RICO Act, and
attorneys  fees. Even if the plaintiffs  claims are found to be without merit,
we have incurred and may continue to incur substantial costs in defending the
lawsuit. The lawsuit could divert the time and attention of our management and
could result in adverse publicity, either of which could significantly harm our
operating results and financial condition. Although we are currently unable to
assess whether the litigation would have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated operating results or financial condition, any adverse determination
in the litigation might result in material liability, which could adversely
impact our operating results and financial condition.  

    If we are unable to retain our key employees and attract and retain
other qualified personnel, we may not be able to meet strategic objectives and
our business could suffer.    

  Our ability to meet our
strategic objectives and otherwise grow will depend to a significant extent on
the continued contributions of our senior management team. Our future success
will also depend in large part on our ability to identify, attract, and retain
other highly qualified managerial, technical, sales and marketing, and customer
service personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not
succeed in identifying, attracting, or retaining qualified personnel. The loss
or interruption of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to
identify, attract, or retain qualified personnel in the future, delays in
hiring qualified personnel, or any employee slowdowns, strikes, or similar
actions could make it difficult for us to conduct and manage our business and
meet key objectives, which could harm our business, financial condition, and
operating results.  

    Our business is subject to a number of other miscellaneous risks that
may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or business.    

  Other miscellaneous
risks that could affect our business include:  

             natural
or man-made disasters, which may result in shortages of raw materials, higher
fuel costs, and increase in insurance premiums; 

             financial
viability of distributors and dealers, changes in distributor ownership, our
success in partnering with new dealers, and our customers  ability to pay
amounts owed to us; and 

             continued threat of
terrorist acts and war, which may result in heightened security and higher
costs for import and export shipments of components or finished goods, reduced
leisure travel, and contraction of the U.S. and worldwide economies. 

   ITEM
1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS     

  None.  

16  

item 2.                 Properties    

  As of October 31, 2006,
we utilized manufacturing, distribution, warehouse, and office facilities
totaling approximately 5.1 million square feet of space. We also utilize
approximately 20 acres of land in California as a testing facility, 16 acres of
land in Nebraska as a parking lot and testing facility, and 36 acres of land in
Minnesota as a testing and storage facility. Plant utilization varies during
the year depending on the production cycle. We consider each of our current
facilities in use to be in good operating condition and adequate for its
present use. Management believes we have sufficient manufacturing capacity for
fiscal 2007. The following schedule outlines our significant facilities by
location, ownership, and function as of October 31, 2006:  

Location 

Ownership   

Products Manufactured / Use   

Bloomington,
  MN  

Owned/Leased  

Corporate
  headquarters, warehouse, and test facility  

El Paso, TX  

Owned/Leased  

Components
  for professional and residential products, distribution center  

Plymouth, WI  

Owned  

Professional
  and residential parts distribution center  

Juarez,
  Mexico  

Leased  

Professional
  and residential products  

Tomah, WI  

Owned/Leased  

Professional
  products and warehouse  

Windom, MN  

Owned/Leased  

Residential
  and professional products and warehouse  

Baraboo, WI  

Leased  

Professional
  and residential finished goods distribution center  

Beatrice, NE  

Owned  

Professional
  products, office, and test facility  

Riverside, CA  

Owned/Leased  

Office and
  test facility  

Lakeville, MN  

Leased  

Residential
  finished goods distribution center  

Lincoln, NE  

Leased  

Professional
  finished goods distribution center  

Hertfordshire,
  United Kingdom  

Owned  

Professional
  and residential products and distribution center, office  

Shakopee, MN  

Owned  

Components
  for professional and residential products  

Braeside,
  Australia  

Leased  

Distribution
  facility  

Beverley,
  Australia  

Owned  

Professional
  products, office and finished goods distribution center  

El Cajon, CA  

Owned  

Professional
  and residential products and distribution center, office  

Brooklyn
  Center, MN  

Leased  

Distribution
  facility  

Capena, Italy  

Leased  

Distribution
  facility  

Oevel,
  Belgium  

Owned  

Distribution
  facility  

Hazelwood, MO  

Leased  

Distribution
  facility  

Sanford, FL  

Leased  

Professional
  products and distribution center  

Franklin
  Park, IL  

Leased  

Distribution
  facility  

Item 3.                 Legal Proceedings    

  We are
a party to litigation in the ordinary course of business. Litigation
occasionally involves claims for punitive as well as compensatory damages
arising out of the use of our products. We are also subject to administrative
proceedings with respect to claims involving the discharge of hazardous
substances into the environment. Some of these claims assert damages and
liability for remedial investigations and clean up costs. We are also typically
involved in commercial disputes, employment disputes, and patent litigation
cases in the ordinary course of business, both as a plaintiff and as a
defendant. While the ultimate results of the current cases are unknown at this
time, we believe that the outcome of these cases is unlikely to have a
materially adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial
condition. Further, although we are self-insured to some extent, we maintain
insurance against certain product liability losses.  

  On June 3, 2004, eight individuals who claim to
have purchased lawnmowers in Illinois and Minnesota filed a lawsuit in Illinois
state court against the company and eight other defendants alleging that the
horsepower labels on the products the plaintiffs purchased were inaccurate. On May 17,
2006, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint to add 84 additional plaintiffs
and an engine manufacturer as an additional defendant. The amended complaint
asserts violations of the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
(RICO) Act and statutory and common law claims arising from the laws of 48
states. The plaintiffs seek certification of a class of all persons in the
United States who, beginning January 1, 1994 through the present purchased
a lawnmower containing a two stroke or four stroke gas combustible engines up
to 30 horsepower that was manufactured or sold by the defendants. The amended
complaint seeks an injunction, unspecified compensatory and punitive damages,
treble damages under the RICO Act and attorneys  fees. In late May 2006,
the case was removed to Federal court in the Southern District of
Illinois. On August 1, 2006, all of the defendants, except MTD Products
Inc., filed motions to dismiss claims in the amended complaint. On August 4,
2006, the plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary approval of a settlement
agreement with MTD Products Inc. and certification of a settlement class. All
remaining non-settling defendants have filed counterclaims against MTD Products
Inc. for potential contribution amounts and MTD Products Inc. has filed cross
claims against the non-settling defendants. A court hearing on the defendants 
motions to dismiss and the plaintiffs  motion for preliminary approval of the
settlement agreement and certification of a settlement class was held on August 29,
2006. As of December 22, 2006, the court has not yet ruled on these
motions. On December 21, 2006, one of the defendants, American Honda Motor
Company, notified us that it had reached an agreement of settlement with the
plaintiffs. We continue to evaluate this lawsuit and are unable to reasonably   

17     

estimate the likelihood of
loss or the amount or range of potential loss that could result from this
litigation. Therefore, no accrual has been established for potential loss in
connection with this lawsuit. We are also unable to assess at this time whether
the lawsuit will have a material adverse effect on our annual consolidated
operating results or financial condition, although an unfavorable resolution
could be material to our consolidated operating results for a particular
period.  

   ITEM 4.                SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY   HOLDERS 

  No matters were submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  

EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT     

  The list
below identifies those persons designated as executive officers of the company,
including their age and position with the company as of December 15, 2006
and positions held by them during the last five or more years. Officers are
elected by the Board of Directors or appointed by the Chief Executive Officer
annually. All executive officers listed below are subject to Section 16
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

Name, Age, and Position with the Company  

Business Experience During the Last Five or More Years   

Michael J. Hoffman   51, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
  Officer 

Chairman of the Board since
  March 2006, Chief Executive Officer since March 2005 and President
  since October 2004. He also served as Chief Operating Officer from
  October 2004 to March 2005. From November 2002 to
  October 2004, he served as Group Vice President, Consumer, Exmark,
  Landscape Contractor, and International Businesses. From May 2001 to
  October 2002, he served as Group Vice President, Consumer and Landscape
  Contractor Businesses.  

William E.
  Brown, Jr.   45, Vice President, Consumer and Landscape
  Contractor Business   Toro 

Vice President, Consumer and Landscape
  Contractor Business   Toro since November 2006. From
  February 2003 to October 2006, he served as Vice President and
  General Manager, Commercial Business. From September 2000 to
  January 2003, he served as General Manager, Landscape Contractor Business.  

Philip A. Burkart   44, Vice President, Irrigation Businesses 

Vice President, Irrigation Businesses since
  November 2006. From February 2003 to October 2006, he served
  as Vice President and General Manager, Irrigation Business. From
  November 2000 to January 2003, he served as Vice President and
  General Manager, International Business.  

Timothy P. Dordell   44, Vice President, 
  Deputy General Counsel 

Vice President, Deputy General Counsel
  since November 2006. From May 2002 to November 2006, he served
  as Associate General Counsel-Corporate and Assistant Secretary at Ecolab
  Inc., a developer and marketer of products and services for the hospitality,
  foodservice, healthcare, and industrial markets. From February 1996 to
  May 2002, he served as Senior Attorney, Mergers and Acquisitions at
  Ecolab Inc.  

Michael D. Drazan   49, Vice President, Chief Information Officer 

Vice President, Chief Information Officer
  since November 2006. From March 2000 to November 2006, he
  served as Vice President, Corporate Information Services.  

Blake M. Grams   39, Managing Director, Corporate Controller 

Managing Director, Corporate Controller
  since February 2006. From November 2003 to January 2006, he
  served as Director, Corporate Finance. From February 2003 to
  October 2003, he served as Senior Manager, Corporate Finance and
  Planning. From November 2000 to January 2003, he served as Senior
  Manager, Corporate Finance.  

Michael J. Happe   35, Managing Director, 
  Commercial Business 

Managing Director, Commercial Business
  since November 2006. From November 2004 to October 2006, he
  served as Director of Marketing, International Business. From April 2002
  to November 2004, he served as National Account Manager   The Home
  Depot for the Consumer Business. From December 2000 to April 2002,
  he served as the Senior Marketing Manager for the Consumer Business.  

Dennis P. Himan   62, Group Vice President 

Group Vice President, Commercial, Corporate
  Accounts, Exmark, MTI, International, and Irrigation Businesses since
  November 2006. From February 2003 to October 2006, he served
  as Vice President and General Manager, International Business. From
  November 1999 to January 2003, he served as Vice President and
  General Manager, Exmark Landscape Contractor Business.  

J. Lawrence McIntyre   64, Vice President, Secretary 
  and General Counsel 

Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel
  since July 1993.  

Sandra J. Meurlot   58, Vice President, Operations 

Vice President, Operations since
  November 2002. From September 2000 to February 2001, she
  served as Vice President/OMC and President, Boat Group at Outboard Marine
  Corporation, a manufacturer and marketer of marine engines, boats, and
  accessories.  

Karen M. Meyer   56, Vice President, Administration 

Vice President, Administration since August 1998.  

Peter M. Ramstad   49, Vice President, Business 
  and Strategic Development 

Vice President, Business and Strategic
  Development since November 2006. From December 2003 to
  November 2006, he served as Executive Vice President, Strategy and
  Finance at Personnel Decisions International, a consulting company that helps
  clients build organizational and talent strategies and assess and develop
  leaders. From April 2001 to December 2003, he served as Executive
  Vice President, Chief Financial Officer at Personnel Decisions International.  

Darren L. Redetzke   42, Managing Director, 
  International Business 

Managing Director, International Business
  since November 2006. From November 2004 to October 2006, he
  served as Director of Marketing   Golf for the Commercial Business. From
  December 2001 to October 2004, he served as Director of
  Marketing   Irrigation and Commercial for the International Business.  

18     

Richard W. Rodier 
   46, General Manager, Landscape Contractor Business   Toro 

General
  Manager, Landscape Contractor Business   Toro since November 2004.
  From February 2003 to October 2004, he served as Managing Director,
  Landscape Contractor Business   Toro. From November 1999 to
  January 2003, he served as Director of Grounds Marketing for the Commercial
  Business.  

Mark B.
  Stinson   41, General Manager, Landscape Contractor
  Business   Exmark 

General
  Manager, Landscape Contractor Business   Exmark since
  November 2004. From February 2003 to October 2004, he served
  as Managing Director, Landscape Contractor Business   Exmark. From
  July 1996 to January 2003, he served as Controller of Exmark
  Manufacturing.  

Stephen
  P. Wolfe   58, Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer 

Vice
  President Finance and Chief Financial Officer since February 2006. From
  June 1997 to January 2006, he served as Vice President Finance,
  Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer.  

There are no family
relationships between any director, executive officer or person nominated to
become a director or executive officer of the company. There are no
arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and any other
person pursuant to which he or she was selected as an officer of the company.  

     P  ART II   

Item 5.                 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
Stoc  kholder Matters, and
issuer purchases of equity securities  

  Toro
common stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange and trades
under the symbol  TTC.  The high, low, and last sales prices for Toro common
stock and cash dividends paid for each of the quarterly periods for fiscal 2006
and 2005 were as follows:  

1       Per
share data and sales prices have been adjusted for all periods presented to
reflect a two-for-one stock split effective March 28, 2005. 

  2       Future
cash dividends will depend upon the company s financial condition, capital
requirements, results of operations, and other factors deemed relevant by the
Board of Directors. 

    Common Stock  
   100,000,000 shares authorized, $1.00 par value,
40,355,714 and 41,898,463 shares outstanding as of October 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively. 

    Preferred
Stock       1,000,000 voting shares authorized and
850,000 non-voting shares authorized, $1.00 par value, no shares outstanding. 

    Stockholders  
   As of December 15, 2006, Toro had approximately 4,460
stockholders of record. 

  The following table sets
forth information with respect to shares of common stock of the company
purchased by the company during each of the three fiscal months in the period
ended October 31, 2006.  

1       On July 18, 2006, the
company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 3,000,000 shares of
the company s common stock in open-market or in privately negotiated
transactions. This program has no expiration date but may be terminated by the
company s Board of Directors at any time. The company purchased an aggregate of
1,185,187 shares during the periods indicated above under this program. 

  2       Includes
1,745 units (shares) of the company s common stock purchased in open-market
transactions at an average price of $44.31 per share on behalf of a rabbi trust
formed to pay benefit obligations of the company to participants in deferred
compensation plans. These 1,745 shares were not repurchased under the company s
repurchase program, as described in footnote 1 above. 

19  

ITEM
6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     

1        t he company s consolidated financial
statements include results of  h ayter
 l imited from February 8, 2005,
date of acquisition. 

  2       Per
share data has been adjusted for all fiscal years presented to reflect two
separate two-for-one stock splits effective on March 28, 2005 and April 1,
2003. 

  3       Fiscal
2002 earnings from operations include restructuring and other expense of $8.4
million, which was not combined with selling, general, and administrative
expense. 

  4       Fiscal
2002 net earnings and basic and diluted net earnings per share data include the
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $24.6 million, $0.49
per basic share, and $0.48 per diluted share related to the adoption of SFAS No. 142. 

  5        w orking capital is defined as current assets less current
liabilities. 

ITEM
7.             MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION
AND   ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

  This Management s Discussion and Analysis (MD A)
provides material historical and prospective disclosures intended to enable
investors and other users to assess our financial condition and results of
operations. Statements that are not historical are forward-looking and involve
risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under the caption  Risk
Factors  in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere
in this report. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially
from any future performance suggested below.  

  This
MD A is organized in the following major sections:  

             Overview,
Summary of Fiscal 2006 Results, GrowLean Initiative, and Outlook for Fiscal
2007 

             Results
of Operations 

             Performance
by Business Segment 

             Financial Condition 

             Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 

             Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates 

   OVERVIEW     

  We design, manufacture, and
market professional turf maintenance equipment and services, turf and micro
irrigation systems, landscaping equipment, and residential yard products
worldwide. We sell our products through a network of distributors, dealers,
hardware retailers, home centers, mass retailers, and over the Internet, mainly
through Internet retailers. Our businesses are organized into two operating
segments: professional and residential. A third segment called  other  consists
of domestic distribution companies and corporate activities. Our emphasis is to
provide well-built, dependable, and innovative products supported by an
extensive service network. A significant portion of our revenues has
historically been attributable to new and enhanced products.  

20  

Summary of
Fiscal 2006 Results     

  Fiscal 2006 was
another good year with record net sales and double digit diluted net earnings
per share growth. Our fiscal 2006 results included the following items of
significance:  

             Our
after-tax return on sales for fiscal 2006 was 7.0 percent, which exceeded our
goal of 6 percent or more as part of our  6 + 8: Teamwork to the Top 
initiative. 

             Net
sales growth for fiscal 2006 was 3.2 percent over fiscal 2005 despite
challenging economic conditions. Our net sales average annual growth rate was
7.1 percent over the three-year period ended October 31, 2006, just shy of
our 8 percent goal. 

             International
net sales continued to grow faster than our total consolidated net sales with
an increase of 12.6 percent compared to fiscal 2005. International net sales
comprised 27.0 percent of our total consolidated net sales in fiscal 2006 compared
to 24.8 percent in fiscal 2005 and 20.7 percent in fiscal 2004. 

             Professional
segment net sales increased 6.9 percent in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005
due primarily to strong demand in the worldwide golf market and new product introductions. 

             Our
residential segment net sales were down 2.9 percent in fiscal 2006 compared to
fiscal 2005 due primarily to weakening domestic economic conditions and higher
fuel prices during the spring/summer season in 2006 that resulted in lower
consumer spending for outdoor power equipment, as well as unfavorable weather
conditions. 

             Fiscal
2006 net earnings increased 13.2 percent compared to fiscal 2005, and diluted
net earnings per share increased 18.8 percent over fiscal 2005. This was our 8 th  consecutive year of double digit diluted net
earnings per share growth before accounting changes. 

             Despite
continued commodity cost increases, fiscal 2006 gross profit as a percentage of
net sales rose to 35.0 percent compared to 34.6 percent in fiscal 2005 due in
part to price increases and our continued use of Lean methods to reduce costs. 

             We
continued to leverage our selling, general, and administrative costs. Selling,
general, and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales was 24.0
percent in fiscal 2006, 24.3 percent in fiscal 2005, and 25.9 percent in fiscal
2004. 

             We
generated strong cash flows from operations. Net cash provided by operating
activities was $190.3 million in fiscal 2006 compared to $174.1 million in
fiscal 2005, an increase of 9.3 percent. 

             We
increased our fiscal 2006 quarterly cash dividend by 50 percent from the
quarterly cash dividend paid in fiscal 2005. 

             We
continued with our stock repurchase program in fiscal 2006, which reduced the
number of our shares outstanding. This reduction resulted in an increase in
diluted net earnings per share of approximately $0.14 in fiscal 2006 compared
to fiscal 2005. 

             Our
financial condition remained strong in fiscal 2006 with continued emphasis on
asset management. Average inventory levels and average receivable balances
slightly increased by 1.3 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively, compared to
fiscal 2005. This allowed us to continue to reinvest in product development,
brand building, and new technologies; repurchase shares of our stock; and increase
our cash dividend in fiscal 2006. 

   GrowLean
Initiative     

  Fiscal 2006 was the third and final year of our  6 +
8: Teamwork to the Top  initiative to achieve a consistent after-tax return on
sales of 6 percent or more and grow revenues at an average annual rate of 8
percent or more over the three-year period ended October 31, 2006. We made
significant strides in our journey of continuous improvement by employing Lean
methods to eliminate waste and reduce costs throughout our organization. While
we fell short of attaining the 8 percent three-year average annual net sales
growth goal of our initiative by 0.9 percentage points, we far exceeded our
profitability goal with an after-tax return on sales of 7.0 percent for fiscal
2006.  

  We are launching our
next-generation initiative for fiscal years 2007 through 2009 called  GrowLean. 
This initiative will focus our efforts more intensely on revenue growth while
maximizing our use of Lean methods to reduce costs and improve quality and efficiency
in our manufacturing facilities and corporate offices. We believe we have
opportunities to create a leaner, cohesive enterprise that has the potential to
deliver sustainable financial performance.  

     Building a Growth
Enterprise.     We have identified several strategic
focus areas to drive revenue growth in our businesses and accelerate opportunities
to expand our global presence through stronger customer relations,
acquisitions, alliances, and new partnerships. In order to meet our  GrowLean 
initiative goal to grow net sales at an average annual rate of 8 percent or
more over a three-year period, we plan to invest in new product development,
marketing, distribution, and other strategies to help build market share and
strengthen our brand worldwide. At the same time, we expect to pursue targeted
acquisitions using a disciplined approach that complement our existing brands
and product portfolio, and we have taken strides in this area with the addition
of the new office of Business and Strategic Development. We also expect to
increase our investment in developing innovative, customer-valued products to
generate revenue growth. 

     Building a Lean Enterprise.     Our
continuous improvement journey, which was part of our two previous three-year
initiatives, created awareness on our part of the root causes of waste and
inefficiency throughout our entire organization. We believe we now have a
strong foundation on which to elevate our internal use of Lean methods while
expanding them externally to our suppliers  

21     

and distribution partners.
The goal of the  GrowLean  initiative is to achieve a consistent after-tax return
on sales of 7 percent or more over the three-year period ending October 31,
2009. To accomplish this, we plan to employ Lean methods, such as Value Stream
Mapping, to identify and eliminate constraints and barriers within and across
our businesses and functions. In addition, we plan to fine-tune enterprise-wide
systems, such as Design for Manufacturing and Assembly, to deliver products more
competitively and efficiently.  

   Outlook for
Fiscal 2007     

  Overall, fiscal 2006
was a good year and we believe we are in a position for yet another good year
in fiscal 2007. We believe the key drivers for our anticipated growth in fiscal
2007 will include, among many others, these main factors:  

             We
anticipate continued success in our product innovation efforts and customer
acceptance of our new products. Consistent with our focus on asset management,
our field inventory levels are at expected levels, which we believe will help
set the stage for our successful introduction of new products in fiscal 2007. 

             We
anticipate strong growth in our professional segment as we plan to increase our
market share by enhancing our product offering and focusing on markets that we
believe are underserved by our brand. In addition, retail demand in the
landscape contractor market has been relatively soft for the past two years as
customers delayed new equipment purchases. For fiscal 2007, we expect this
market to improve slightly as we anticipate customers will replace their
existing equipment, and we are ready to capitalize on this with our existing
products and new product launches. 

             Fiscal
2006 was a challenging year for our residential segment as economic conditions
weakened and consumer confidence was down in the U.S. during the spring/summer
selling season. This continues to be a concern for us as we enter fiscal 2007.
However, we are facing the challenge with a broad array of new product offerings
and expanded product placement at a key retailer in fiscal 2007. 

             International
markets have in the past and will continue to be a focus for us to grow our
revenues. Many opportunities exist abroad, and our goal is for international
sales to comprise a larger percentage of our total consolidated net sales. 

             During
fiscal 2006, we again experienced rising costs for commodities. We expect costs
to continue to increase in fiscal 2007, as we anticipate that increased
worldwide demand and other factors to drive commodity prices higher. We have
made significant progress using Lean methods and principles, and we plan to
continue this focus as part of our new  GrowLean  initiative to offset these rising
costs. 

  We will continue to keep a
cautionary eye on the weather, world economies, field inventory levels,
commodity prices, and other factors identified under the caption  Risk Factors 
in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could cause our
actual results to differ from our outlook.  

   RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS     

  Fiscal 2006 net earnings were $129.1 million compared
to $114.1 million in fiscal 2005, an increase of 13.2 percent. Fiscal 2006
diluted net earnings per share were $2.91, an increase of 18.8 percent over
$2.45 per share in fiscal 2005. The primary factors contributing to the net
earnings increase were higher net sales, an increase in gross margins, improved
leveraging of selling, general, and administrative expense, and higher other
income. In addition, our share repurchase program resulted in an increase in
diluted net earnings per share of approximately $0.14 in fiscal 2006 compared
to fiscal 2005.  

  Fiscal 2005 net earnings
were $114.1 million compared to $102.7 million in fiscal 2004, an increase of
11.1 percent. Fiscal 2005 diluted net earnings per share were $2.45, an increase
of 21.3 percent over $2.02 per share in fiscal 2004. The primary factors
contributing to the net earnings increase were higher net sales, lower
incentive compensation expense, and improved leveraging of selling, general,
and administrative expense. However, the growth in fiscal 2005 net earnings
relative to fiscal 2004 was tempered by higher costs for steel, resin, and
other commodities.  

  The
following table summarizes our results of operations as a percentage of our
consolidated net sales.  

Fiscal 2006 Compared With Fiscal 2005     

     Net Sales.     Worldwide
net sales in fiscal 2006 were $1,836.0 million compared to $1,779.4 million in
fiscal 2005, an increase of 3.2 percent. Factoring out the effect of the
additional sales from Hayter Limited (Hayter), which we acquired in February 2005,
net sales increased 2.8 percent in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. Net
sales growth was primarily driven by: 

             Strong
international net sales that grew 12.6 percent as a result of the acquisition
of Hayter as well as increased worldwide demand and new products introduced
within the past two years. 

             Select
price increases on some products. 

             Increased
sales in most of the professional segment markets due to the success of
introducing new products, strong retail demand, and growth in the worldwide
golf market. 

22     

Somewhat offsetting
those positive factors was:  

             A decline in domestic
residential segment net sales for most product lines primarily as a result of a
slow down in consumer spending in the U.S. during the spring/summer season in
2006 for outdoor power equipment and unfavorable weather conditions. 

             Unfavorable
currency exchange rates that reduced our net sales by approximately $6.5
million. 

  Looking ahead, we expect our
net sales annual growth rate to be higher in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal
2006, driven primarily by the introduction of new products and anticipated
continued growth in our international businesses.  

     Gross Profit.     Gross
profit as a percentage of net sales increased by 0.4 percentage points from
34.6 percent in fiscal 2005 to 35.0 percent in fiscal 2006. This increase was
mainly the result of the following factors: 

             Price
increases introduced on some products. 

             A
higher proportionate share of professional segment sales that carry higher
average gross margins than residential segment sales. 

             Cost
reduction efforts, including benefits from past and continuing profit
improvement initiatives. 

             Lower
excess and obsolete parts inventory expense. 

             The
Hayter acquisition, which negatively impacted gross margins in fiscal 2005, due
to the purchase accounting effect of recording the fair value of the inventory
acquired as the inventory was sold. 

  Somewhat offsetting
those positive factors were:  

             Continued
rising commodity costs as well as higher freight costs due to higher fuel costs
and an increase in demand for transportation. 

             Lower
gross margins for the new line of riding products in the residential segment. 

             A
charge for customs duties. 

  Looking ahead, gross profit
as a percentage of net sales for fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006 is
expected to remain the same or improve slightly. We anticipate that benefits
from our ongoing profit improvement initiatives, driven by our emphasis on lean
manufacturing, will in part offset anticipated higher costs of commodities.  

     Selling, General, and
Administrative (SG A) Expense.       SG A expense increased 1.8 percent from fiscal
2005. SG A expense as a percentage of net sales decreased to 24.0 percent
in fiscal 2006 compared to 24.3 percent in fiscal 2005. The decrease in
SG A expense as a percentage of net sales was due primarily to the
following factors: 

             A
reduction in self-insurance costs due to favorable claims experience. 

             Lower
incentive compensation expense due mainly to less favorable financial results
for our long-term incentive plans. 

             Leveraging
the fixed portion of SG A costs over higher sales volumes. 

  Somewhat offsetting
those decreases were:  

             Increased
investments in engineering, marketing, service, and information systems as part
of our  6 + 8: Teamwork to the Top  initiative. 

             Higher
warranty expense due mainly to special provisions for major product
modifications and a product recall. 

  Looking ahead, SG A
expense is expected to increase, and as a percentage of net sales, SG A
expense is expected to remain the same or decrease slightly in fiscal 2007
compared to fiscal 2006, as we expect to continue to increase our investments
in engineering, marketing, and information systems.  

     Interest Expense.     Interest
expense for fiscal 2006 slightly decreased by 0.3 percent compared to fiscal
2005 due to lower average levels of short-term debt, which was somewhat offset
by higher average interest rates. 

     Other Income, Net.     Other
income, net consists mainly of interest income, financing income, litigation
settlements and recoveries, currency exchange rate gains and losses, and equity
losses from investments. Other income, net for fiscal 2006 increased $2.3
million compared to fiscal 2005. This increase was due mainly to the following
factors: 

             Currency
exchange rate gains in fiscal 2006 compared to currency exchange rate losses in
fiscal 2005. 

             Higher
litigation settlement recoveries. 

             A
loss on the sale of a business in fiscal 2005. 

     Provision
for Income Taxes.     The effective tax rate for
fiscal 2006 remained unchanged at 33.0 percent compared to fiscal 2005. 

  Looking ahead, the tax rate
for fiscal 2007 is expected to be approximately 33.5 percent. The American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004 provides for a variety of changes in the tax law,
including a phased elimination of the extra-territorial income (ETI) exclusion
and the addition of a domestic manufacturing benefit. The ETI exclusion for
foreign sales will be phased out over two years beginning in 2005. The deduction
for income from qualified domestic production activities will be phased-in from
2005 through 2010. Similar to the ETI benefit, the domestic manufacturing
benefit has no effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities existing at the
enactment date. Rather, the impact of this deduction will be reported in the
period in which the deduction is claimed on the federal income tax return. We
anticipate that the net effect of the phase-out of the ETI and the phase-in of
this new deduction should result in an increase of approximately 1 percent on
our effective tax rate for fiscal 2007, which we expect will be somewhat offset
by the extension of the research and development tax credit.  

23     

Fiscal 2005 Compared With Fiscal 2004     

     Net Sales.     Worldwide
net sales in fiscal 2005 were $1,779.4 million compared to $1,652.5 million in
fiscal 2004, an increase of 7.7 percent. Factoring out the effect of our
southeastern-based distributor sold in October 2004, our
southwestern-based distributor sold in November 2004, and the additional
sales from our acquisition of Hayter in February 2005, net sales increased
6.9 percent in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. Net sales growth was primarily
driven by: 

             Strong
international net sales that grew 29.1 percent as a result of the acquisition
of Hayter as well as increased demand and new products introduced within the
past two years, particularly in the golf and residential markets. 

             Increased
shipments to the golf and grounds and sports fields markets due to the success
of introducing new products and strong retail demand. 

             Higher
shipments of new Lawn-Boy products due to additional placement in the home
center distribution channel. 

             Select
price increases on some products. 

             Favorable
currency rates that contributed approximately 1 percent of the net sales growth
for fiscal 2005. Excluding currency effects, international net sales were up
23.8 percent for fiscal 2005. 

  Somewhat offsetting the
factors contributing to our net sales growth was a decline in domestic
residential segment net sales for most product lines primarily as a result of
strong competition and unfavorable weather conditions in key domestic markets.  

     Gross Profit.     Gross
profit as a percentage of net sales decreased by 1.3 percentage points from
35.9 percent in fiscal 2004 to 34.6 percent in fiscal 2005. This decline was
mainly the result of the following factors: 

             Higher
costs for steel, steel-based component parts, resin, and other commodities. 

             Increased
sales of lower margin products, including the impact of Hayter product sales
that carry lower margins. 

             Higher
excess and obsolete parts inventory expense. 

             The
Hayter acquisition that negatively impacted gross margins due to the purchase
accounting effect of recording the fair value of the inventory acquired as the
inventory was sold. 

             Increased
outbound freight costs due mainly to higher fuel costs. 

  Somewhat offsetting
those negative factors were:  

             Price
increases introduced on some products. 

             Cost
reduction efforts, including ongoing benefits from past and continuing profit
improvement initiatives. 

     Selling, General, and
Administrative Expense.       SG A
expense increased 1.1 percent from fiscal 2004. SG A expense as a
percentage of net sales decreased to 24.3 percent in fiscal 2005 compared to
25.9 percent in fiscal 2004. The decrease in SG A expense as a percentage
of net sales was due primarily to the following factors: 

             Lower
incentive compensation expense in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 as a
result of the exceptional financial performance in fiscal 2004 relative to the
established incentive goals as well as the impact of adopting Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 123R in fiscal 2005. In fiscal
2004, we accounted for stock-based compensation under the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,  (APB No. 25), which resulted in higher compensation expense
for our Performance Share Plan due to the increase in our stock price during
fiscal 2004. 

             Reduced
warranty expense due to lower costs for major product modifications in fiscal
2005 compared to fiscal 2004 as well as continued lower claims experience on
certain product lines. 

             Leveraging
the fixed portion of SG A costs over higher sales volumes. 

  Somewhat offsetting
those cost decreases were:  

             Increased
investments in engineering, marketing, and information systems as part of our  6
+ 8  initiative. 

             Higher
administrative expenses, mainly from increased costs related to Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 Section 404 internal controls compliance and higher bad debt
expense due mainly to a recovery in fiscal 2004 of a previously written off
note receivable. 

     Interest Expense.     Interest
expense for fiscal 2005 increased 14.2 percent compared to fiscal 2004 due
primarily to higher average levels of short-term debt as a result of increased
stock repurchases and the acquisition of Hayter, as well as higher average interest
rates. 

     Other Income, Net.     Other
income, net for fiscal 2005 increased $1.7 million compared to fiscal 2004.
This increase was due mainly to lower litigation settlement expense in fiscal
2005 compared to fiscal 2004. 

     Provision for Income Taxes.     The
effective tax rate for fiscal 2005 was unchanged from 33.0 percent in fiscal
2004. 

   PERFORMANCE BY
BUSINESS SEGMENT     

  As more fully described in Note 11 of the notes to
consolidated financial statements, we operate in two reportable business segments:
professional and residential. A third reportable segment called  other 
consists of company-owned distributor operations in the United States,
corporate activities, and financing functions. Effective as of the beginning of
fiscal 2005, we combined our former distribution segment with the  other 
segment because our distribution segment no longer met the quantitative
thresholds for separate reporting as an operating segment for all periods presented.
Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the new presentation.
Operating earnings for each of our two business   

24     

segments is defined as earnings from operations plus
other income, net. Operating loss for the  other  segment includes earnings
(loss) from domestic wholly owned distribution company operations, corporate
activities, including corporate financing activities, other income, and
interest expense.  

  The following information
provides perspective on our business segments  net sales and operating results.  

   Professional     

  Professional
segment net sales represented 67 percent, 64 percent, and 62 percent of
consolidated net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The
following table shows the professional segment net sales, operating earnings,
and operating earnings as a percent of net sales.  

Net Sales.     Worldwide
net sales for the professional segment in fiscal 2006 were up 6.9 percent
compared to fiscal 2005 primarily as a result of the following factors: 

             Worldwide
shipments of most product lines increased, driven primarily by our success in
introducing new products during the past two years. 

             Strong
worldwide demand in the golf and sports field and grounds markets that resulted
in higher equipment and irrigation product sales. 

             Price
increases introduced on some products. 

             Significantly
higher international net sales as a result of continued strong demand in the
golf market and the acquisition of Hayter. 

  Field inventory levels for the professional segment
were slightly higher, but within our expectations as of the end of fiscal 2006
compared to the end of fiscal 2005. This was due in part to reduced orders and
lower shipments of landscape contractor equipment products in the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2006 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.  

  Worldwide net sales for the professional segment in
fiscal 2005 were up 11.3 percent compared to fiscal 2004. Worldwide shipments
of most product lines increased due to the successful introduction of new products
and price increases introduced on some products. International professional
segment net sales were up significantly due to the acquisition of Hayter,
strong demand in the golf market, and a weaker U.S. dollar compared to the
currencies in international markets where we conduct business.  

  Looking ahead, net sales for
the professional segment are expected to grow in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal
2006 as we expect new products to be well received and increase our market
share, and we anticipate continued growth in international markets.  

     Operating Earnings.       Operating earnings for the professional segment in fiscal 2006
increased 9.8 percent compared to fiscal 2005. Expressed as a percentage
of net sales, professional segment operating margins increased to 18.6 percent
compared to 18.1 percent in fiscal 2005. The following factors impacted professional
segment operating earnings: 

             Higher
gross margins in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due to continued cost
reduction efforts from profit improvement initiatives, price increases on some
products, and increased sales of higher margin products. However, higher commodity
and freight costs somewhat tempered the increase in gross margins and operating
earnings. 

             SG A expense as a
percentage of net sales was higher in fiscal 2006 compared to 2005 due to an
increase in warranty expense and increased investments for marketing,
engineering, and service. 

  Operating earnings for the professional segment in
fiscal 2005 increased 19.8 percent compared to fiscal 2004. Expressed as a percentage
of net sales, professional segment operating margin increased to 18.1 percent
in fiscal 2005 compared to 16.8 percent in fiscal 2004. The operating profit
improvement was due mainly to higher gross margins as the result of cost
reduction efforts from profit improvement initiatives, price increases on some
products, increased sales of higher margin products, and lower manufacturing
costs from increased plant utilization, somewhat offset by higher commodity
costs. Lower SG A expense as a percentage of net sales also contributed to
the operating earnings improvement due to leveraging the fixed portion of
SG A costs over higher sales volumes.  

  Looking ahead, professional
segment operating earnings are anticipated to improve in fiscal 2007 compared
to fiscal 2006 due to expected sales growth, slight improvement in gross
margins, and leveraging of SG A expense over higher planned sales volumes.  

   Residential     

  Residential
segment net sales represented 31 percent, 33 percent, and 34 percent of
consolidated net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The
following table shows the residential segment net sales, operating earnings,
and operating earnings as a percent of net sales.  

25     

Net Sales.     Worldwide
net sales for the residential segment in fiscal 2006 were down 2.9 percent
compared to fiscal 2005 primarily as a result of the following factors: 

             Lower
sales of walk power mowers due to weakening domestic economic conditions and
higher fuel prices during the spring/summer season in 2006 that resulted in
lower consumer spending for outdoor power equipment. 

             Decreased
sales of snow throwers in the domestic market as a result of the lower levels
of snow fall in the U.S. during the 2005-2006 winter season. 

             A
decline in retail irrigation product sales sold through the home center
distribution channel due to unfavorable weather conditions in key domestic
markets and lost placement of certain models at a key retailer. 

             Lower
electric trimmer product shipments due to a slow down of consumer spending and
strong competition. 

  Somewhat offsetting
those negative factors were:  

             Higher
worldwide shipments of riding products as we introduced new models and expanded
product placement at a key retailer. 

             Increased
international sales due to new product introductions, higher snow thrower
product shipments due to heavy snow falls in Europe during the 2005-2006
winter season, and strong sales of Pope products in Australia. 

  Worldwide net sales for the residential segment in
fiscal 2005 were up by 5.2 percent compared to fiscal 2004. This increase was
primarily due to higher shipments of walk power mowers, including in
particular, the new Lawn-Boy products as a result of expanded product placement
in the home center distribution channel. However, domestic shipments of Toro
walk power mowers declined due mainly to a shift of some sales to the new line
of Lawn-Boy walk power mowers. International residential segment sales
increased significantly as a result of the acquisition of Hayter, introduction
of new products, and a weaker U.S. dollar. Somewhat offsetting those increases
were lower riding product and electric blower product shipments due to strong
competition. In addition, retail irrigation product sales declined due to
unfavorable weather conditions in key domestic markets.  

  Looking ahead, residential
segment net sales are expected to increase in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal
2006 primarily as a result of anticipated growth in domestic riding product
sales due to the introduction of new products and the anticipated growth of the
zero-turning radius riding mower market. In addition, we anticipate continued
growth in international markets as a result of planned new product
introductions.  

     Operating Earnings.         Operating
earnings for the residential segment in fiscal 2006 decreased 32.0 percent
compared to fiscal 2005. Expressed as a
percentage of net sales, residential segment operating margins declined to 6.0
percent compared to 8.6 percent in fiscal 2005. The following factors impacted
residential segment operating earnings: 

             Lower
gross margins as a result of higher costs for commodities combined with minimal
price increases due to competitive conditions, lower margins for the new line
of riding products, higher freight expense, and a charge for customs duties. 

             Higher
SG A expense as a percentage of net sales due to lower sales volumes and an
increase in warranty expense for a product recall. 

  Operating earnings for the residential segment in
fiscal 2005 decreased 18.8 percent compared to fiscal 2004. Expressed as a
percentage of net sales, residential segment operating margins declined to 8.6
percent compared to 11.1 percent in fiscal 2004 mainly as a result of lower
gross margins due to higher costs for commodities combined with minimal price
increases due to competitive conditions, increased sales of lower margin
products, higher manufacturing costs from lower plant utilization as we
curtailed production to reduce inventory levels, and lower gross margins from
sales of Hayter products. However, SG A expense as a percentage of net
sales was lower due to reduced warranty expense for major product modifications
in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 as well as lower claims experience.  

  Looking ahead, residential
segment earnings in fiscal 2007 are expected to improve compared to fiscal 2006
due to an anticipated increase in gross margins for new products and leveraging
SG A expense over higher planned sales volumes.  

   Other     

Net
Sales.       Net
sales for the other segment includes sales from our wholly owned domestic
distribution companies less sales from the professional and residential
segments to those distribution companies. In addition, elimination of the
professional and residential segments  floor plan interest costs from the Toro
Credit Company are also included in this segment. The other segment net sales
in fiscal 2006 decreased 12.1 percent compared to fiscal 2005 due to lower
sales at our company-owned distributors as a result of the change in the method
of product distribution (to shipping our Exmark product directly to dealers)
that impacted the territory served by our Midwestern distributorship. 

26  

The other segment net sales
in fiscal 2005 decreased 26.7 percent compared to fiscal 2004 due to the sale
of two distribution companies in the fourth calendar quarter of 2004.  

     Operating
Loss.       Operating
loss for the other segment in fiscal 2006 decreased by 20.9 percent compared to
fiscal 2005. This loss decrease was primarily the result of lower incentive
compensation expense, a reduction in self-insurance costs, and currency
exchange rate gains in fiscal 2006 compared to currency exchange rate losses in
fiscal 2005. 

  Operating loss for the other
segment in fiscal 2005 increased by 6.9 percent compared to fiscal 2004. This
loss increase was primarily the result of higher administrative expenses,
mainly for information systems and Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Section 404
internal controls compliance costs, and higher interest expense, somewhat
offset by lower incentive compensation costs, as previously described.  

   FINANCIAL CONDITION     

   Working
Capital     

  Our financial condition remains strong. Our average
working capital for fiscal 2006 was $337.9 million compared to $309.2 million
in fiscal 2005, an increase of 9.2 percent. This increase was due mainly to
lower average short-term debt.  

  The
following table highlights several key measures of our working capital performance.  

Average short-term debt decreased in fiscal 2006
compared to fiscal 2005 primarily because we purchased Hayter and more shares
of our common stock during fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2006. Average receivables,
net increased slightly in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due to higher
sales volumes; however, average days outstanding for receivables decreased to
75 days in fiscal 2006 compared to 77 days in fiscal 2005. Average net
inventories increased slightly by 1.3 percent in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal
2005; however, average inventory turnover improved slightly by 1.1 percent in
fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. These favorable changes were driven by
efforts to improve asset management.  

  We expect that average
receivables, net in fiscal 2007 will increase compared to fiscal 2006 due to
higher planned sales volumes, while average inventories, net are expected to
decrease in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006. We anticipate both average
days outstanding for receivables and average inventory turnover to slightly
improve in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006 as we plan to continue our
efforts to improve asset utilization.  

   Capital Expenditures and   
Other Long-Term Assets   

  Fiscal 2006 capital expenditures of $39.9 million were
6.6 percent higher compared to fiscal 2005. This increase was primarily attributable
to production equipment and tooling expenditures for new products. Capital
expenditures for fiscal 2007 are anticipated to be approximately $5 to $10
million higher than fiscal 2006 as we plan to continue to invest in
manufacturing equipment and tooling for new products.  

  Long-term assets as of October 31,
2006 were $264.9 million compared to $269.7 million as of October 31,
2005, a slight decrease of 1.8 percent.  

   Capital Structure     

  The
following table details the components of our total capitalization and key
ratios.  

Our debt-to-capitalization
ratio was slightly lower in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due mainly to
an increase in stockholders  equity as a result of higher net earnings in
fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005.  

   Liquidity and Capital Resources     

  Our businesses are seasonally working capital
intensive and require funding for purchases of raw materials used in production,
replacement parts inventory, capital expenditures, expansion and upgrading of
existing facilities, as well as for financing receivables from customers. We
believe that cash generated from operations, together with our fixed rate
long-term debt, bank credit lines, and cash on hand, will provide us with
adequate liquidity to meet our anticipated operating requirements. We believe
that the combination of funds available through existing or anticipated financing
arrangements and forecasted cash flows will be sufficient to provide the
necessary capital resources for our anticipated working capital needs, capital
expenditures, debt repayments, quarterly cash dividend payments, and stock repurchases
for at least the next twelve months.  

  We have $75 million of notes due on June 15, 2007
that are classified as long-term debt as we are in the process of evaluating
several alternatives for replacing this debt, including refinancing the obligation
on a long-term basis using funds available under our   

27     

current credit facilities.
We believe we will obtain cost effective financing in advance of the repayment
date for the notes.  

  Each quarter in fiscal 2006,
our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.09 per share, which was a
50 percent increase over our cash dividend of $0.06 per share paid each quarter
in fiscal 2005. Our Board of Directors recently increased our first quarter of
fiscal 2007 quarterly cash dividend by 33 percent to $0.12 per share from the
quarterly cash dividend paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.  

   Cash Flow     

  Cash
flows provided by (used in) operating, investing, and financing activities
during the past three fiscal years are shown in the following table.  

Cash Flows Provided by
Operating Activities.     Our primary source of
funds is cash generated from operations. In fiscal 2006, cash provided by
operating activities increased by 9.3 percent from fiscal 2005. This increase
was due primarily to higher net earnings in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal
2005. 

     Cash Flows Used in Investing
Activities.     Capital expenditures and
acquisitions are our primary uses of capital resources. These investments have
enabled our sales growth in diverse and new markets, helped us to meet product
demand, and increased our manufacturing efficiencies. Cash used in investing
activities decreased 44.4 percent in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due
mainly to cash used in fiscal 2005 for the purchase of Hayter, somewhat offset
by an increase in purchases of property, plant, and equipment in fiscal 2006
compared to fiscal 2005. 

     Cash Flows Used in Financing
Activities.     Cash used in financing
activities was lower by 10.5 percent in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005.
This decline was primarily driven by higher levels of funds used to purchase
our common stock in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2006 and an increase in tax
benefits for stock-based awards in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. This
decline was somewhat offset by higher cash dividends paid on Toro common stock
in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. 

   Credit Lines and Other Capital Resources     

  Our business is seasonal, with accounts receivable
balances historically increasing between January and April as a
result of higher sales volumes and extended payment terms made available to our
customers, and decreasing between May and December when payments are
received. The seasonality of production and shipments causes working capital
requirements to fluctuate during the year. Our peak borrowing usually occurs
between February and May. Seasonal cash requirements are financed from
operations and with short- and medium-term financing arrangements, including a
$175.0 million unsecured senior five-year revolving credit facility, which
expires in October 2010. Interest expense on this credit line is
determined based on a LIBOR rate plus a basis point spread defined in the credit
agreement. In addition, our non-U.S. operations and a domestic subsidiary also
maintain unsecured short-term lines of credit of approximately $17 million.
These facilities bear interest at various rates depending on the rates in their
respective countries of operation. We also have a letter of credit subfacility
as part of our credit agreement. Average short-term debt was $43.4 million in
fiscal 2006 compared to $63.4 million in fiscal 2005, a decrease of $20.0
million. This decline was primarily attributable to cash used in fiscal 2005
for the acquisition of Hayter and significant stock repurchases. As of October 31,
2006, we had $191.6 million of unutilized availability under our credit agreements.  

  Significant financial
covenants in our credit agreement are interest coverage and
debt-to-capitalization ratios. We were in compliance with all covenants related
to our credit agreement as of October 31, 2006, and expect to be in
compliance with all covenants during fiscal 2007. Our credit agreement requires
compliance with all of the covenants defined in the agreement. If we were out
of compliance with any debt covenant required by our credit agreement, the
banks could terminate their commitments unless we could negotiate a covenant
waiver from the banks. In addition, our long-term public notes and debentures
could become due and payable if we were unable to obtain a covenant waiver or
refinance our medium-term debt under our credit agreement. If our credit rating
falls below investment grade, the interest rate we currently pay on outstanding
debt under the credit agreement would increase, but the credit commitment could
not be cancelled by the banks based solely on a ratings downgrade. Our
long-term unsecured senior, non-credit enhanced debt is rated by Standard and
Poor s Ratings Group at BBB- and by Moody s Investors Service at Baa3, which is
unchanged from the rates in fiscal 2005.  

   Share Repurchase Plan     

  During fiscal 2006, we continued our emphasis on repurchasing
shares of our common stock as a means of utilizing excess cash and reducing our
shares outstanding. In addition, our repurchase programs provided shares for
use in connection with our equity compensation programs. In July 2006, our
Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 3,000,000
shares of our common stock in open-market or privately negotiated transactions.
This repurchase authorization has no expiration date but may be terminated by
our Board of Directors at any time. As of   

28     

October 31, 2006, 1,476,904 shares remained available
for repurchase under our Board authorization.  

  The
following table provides information with respect to repurchases of our common
stock during the past three fiscal years.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and   
Contractual  Obligations   

  We do not customarily enter into off-balance sheet arrangements,
except for off-balance sheet arrangements related to our customer financing
activities, inventory purchase commitments, operating lease commitments, and
currency contracts disclosed in the contractual obligations table below.
Moreover, it is not our normal policy to issue guarantees to third parties.  

     Wholesale Financing.     Toro
Credit Company (TCC), a wholly owned financing subsidiary, provides financing
for our North American Toro distributors and approximately 200 of our domestic
dealers for select products that we manufacture. Independent North American
Toro and Exmark distributors and dealers that do not finance through TCC
generally finance their inventories with third party financing companies. All
outstanding receivables of TCC are reflected in our consolidated balance
sheets. 

  TCC
and other third party financing companies purchase selected receivables from us
and our distributors and dealers for extended periods that assist our
distributors and dealers in carrying representative inventories of products.
Down payments are not required and, depending on the finance program for each
product line, finance charges are incurred by us, shared between us and the
distributor and/or the dealer, or paid by the distributor or dealer. We retain
a security interest in the distributors  and dealers  inventories, and make
periodic physical checks of those inventories. Under the sales terms to
distributors and dealers, finance charges are applied to outstanding balances
from the earlier of the date when product is sold to a customer, or the
expiration of company-supported finance terms granted at the time of sale,
until payment is received by TCC or the third party finance company. Rates are
generally fixed or based on the prime rate plus a fixed percentage depending on
whether the financing is for a distributor or dealer. Rates may also vary based
on the product that is financed. Distributors and dealers cannot cancel
purchases after goods are shipped and are responsible for payment even if the
equipment is not sold to retail customers.  

  Third party financing companies purchased $451.0 million
of receivables of our financed products during fiscal 2006. The outstanding
receivable balance owed from our distributors and dealers to third party
financing companies was $189.1 million as of October 31, 2006. Our maximum
exposure for credit recourse with a third party financing company related to
receivables under these financing arrangements was $0.6 million as of October 31,
2006. We also enter into limited inventory repurchase agreements with third
party financing companies. As of October 31, 2006, we were contingently
liable to repurchase up to $3.5 million of inventory related to receivables
under these financing arrangements. We have repurchased immaterial amounts of
inventory from third party financing companies over the past three years. However,
a decline in retail sales could cause this situation to change and thereby
require us to repurchase financed product.  

     End-User Financing.       We have agreements with a third
party financing company to provide lease-financing options to golf course and
sports fields and grounds equipment customers in North America and Europe. The
purpose of these agreements is to increase sales by giving buyers of our
products alternative financing options when purchasing our products. Under the
terms of these agreements, we could be contingently liable for a portion of the
credit collection and residual value risk on the underlying equipment financed
under this program. Our maximum exposure for credit collection and residual
value as of October 31, 2006 was $15.2 million. We have established a
reserve for our estimated exposure related to this program. 

  We
also have an agreement to sell certain accounts receivable and notes to a third
party. The total amount of receivables and notes outstanding under this
agreement may not exceed $10.0 million at any time. As of October 31,
2006, the company had sold $1.3 million of receivables and notes under the
terms of this agreement.  

  In the
normal course of business, we have arrangements with other financial
institutions to provide various forms of financing options to end-user customers.
From time to time, our company-owned distributorships also guarantee the
residual value at the end of leases with third-party financing companies for
product sold to customers. The amount of this potential contingent liability as
of October 31, 2006 was $4.0 million. None of these other arrangements
requires any additional material financial involvement by us.  

  Termination of our end-user financing arrangements,
any material change to the terms in the financing arrangements, or availability
of credit for our customers, any delay in securing replacement credit sources,
or significant financed product repurchase requirements could have a material
impact on our future operating results or financial condition; however, we do
not anticipate those events are likely to occur.  

     Distributor
Financing.     From time to time, we enter into
long-term loan agreements with some distributors. These transactions are used
for expansion of the distributors  businesses, acquisitions, refinancing
working capital agreements, or facilitation of ownership changes. As of October 31,
2006 and 2005, we had outstanding notes receivable of $2.8 million and $9.5
million, respectively, from  

29     

several distribution companies. The amounts are
included in other current and long-term assets on our consolidated balance
sheets. The decrease of $6.7 million was the result of repayments on these
loans.  

     Purchase
Commitments.     We have purchase commitments
with some suppliers for materials and supplies as part of the normal course of
business. 

     Contractual Obligations.       The following table summarizes our
contractual obligations as of October 31, 2006. 

As of October 31, 2006, we also had $11.7 million
in outstanding letters of credit issued during the normal course of business,
as required by some vendor contracts.  

   Market Risk     

  Due to the nature and scope of our operations, we are
subject to exposures that arise from fluctuations in interest rates, foreign
currency exchange rates, and commodity prices. We are also exposed to equity
market risk pertaining to the trading price of our stock. Additional
information is presented in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
about Market Risk, and Note 13 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements.  

   Inflation     

  We are subject to the effects of inflation and
changing prices. As previously mentioned, we experienced rising prices for
steel, steel-based component parts, fuel, petroleum-based resins, and other
commodities during fiscal 2006 and 2005 that had a negative impact on our gross
margins and net earnings. In fiscal 2007, we expect average prices paid for
commodities to increase compared to fiscal 2006. We expect to continue to
attempt to mitigate the impact of these anticipated increases in commodity
costs and other inflationary pressures by actively pursuing internal cost
reduction efforts, reviewing alternative sourcing options, vendor negotiations,
and by recovering a portion of these costs with price increases to customers.  

   Acquisition,
Investment in Affiliate, and Divestitures     

  In
fiscal 2005, we completed the acquisition of certain assets and assumed certain
liabilities of Hayter. Hayter designs, manufactures, and markets residential
and professional turf maintenance equipment primarily for the United Kingdom
market,  with annual
sales of approximately $50 million. 

  In
fiscal 2004, we entered into a joint venture agreement with a leading engine
manufacturer to source two-cycle snow thrower engines for us and other
customers.  

  In fiscal 2004, we completed the sale of our southeastern-based
U.S. distributorship, which was acquired in fiscal 2003. During the first
quarter of fiscal 2005, we also completed the sale of our southwestern-based
U.S. distribution company.  

   Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates     

  In
preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles, we must make decisions that impact
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting
principles to be applied and the assumptions on which to base accounting estimates.
In reaching such decisions, we apply judgments based on our understanding and
analysis of the relevant circumstances, historical experience, and actuarial
valuations. Actual amounts could differ from those estimated at the time the
consolidated financial statements are prepared.  

  Our significant accounting policies
are described in Note 1 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements.
Some of those significant accounting policies require us to make difficult
subjective or complex judgments or estimates. An accounting estimate is considered
to be critical if it meets both of the following criteria: (i) the
estimate requires assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the
time the accounting estimate is made, and (ii) different estimates
reasonably could have been used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably
likely to occur from period to period, would have a material impact on the
presentation of our financial condition, changes in financial condition or results
of operations. Our critical accounting estimates include the following:  

     Warranty
Reserve.     Warranty coverage on our products
ranges from a period of six months to seven years, and covers parts, labor, and
other expenses for non-maintenance repairs, provided operator abuse, improper
use or negligence did not necessitate the repair. At the time of sale, we
accrue a warranty reserve by product line for estimated costs in connection
with future warranty claims. We also establish reserves for major rework
campaigns. The amount of our warranty reserves is based primarily on the estimated
number of products under warranty, historical average costs incurred to service
warranty claims, the trend in the historical ratio of claims to sales, and the
historical length of time between the sale and resulting warranty claim. We
periodically assess the adequacy of our warranty reserves based on changes in
these factors and record any necessary adjustments if actual claim experience
indicates that adjustments are necessary. Actual  

30     

claims could be higher or lower than amounts
estimated, as the amount and value of warranty claims are subject to variation
due to such factors as performance of new products, significant manufacturing
or design defects not discovered until after the product is delivered to customers,
product failure rates, and higher or lower than expected service costs for a
repair. We believe that analysis of historical trends and knowledge of
potential manufacturing or design problems provide sufficient information to
establish a reasonable estimate for warranty claims at the time of sale. However,
since we cannot predict with certainty future warranty claims or costs
associated with servicing those claims, our actual warranty costs may differ
from our estimates. An unexpected increase in warranty claims or in the costs
associated with servicing those claims would result in an increase in our
warranty accrual and a decrease in our net earnings. As of October 31,
2006, we had $65.2 million accrued related to future estimated warranty claims.  

     Sales Promotions and
Incentives.     At the time of sale to a customer,
we record an estimate for sales promotion and incentive costs, which are
classified as a reduction of net sales or as a component of selling, general,
and administrative expense. Examples of sales promotion and incentive programs
include rebate programs on certain professional products sold to distributors,
volume discounts, retail financing support, floor planning, cooperative
advertising, commissions, and other sales discounts and promotional programs.
The estimates for sales promotion and incentive costs are based on the terms of
the arrangements with customers, historical payment experience, field inventory
levels, volume purchases, and expectations for changes in relevant trends in
the future. Actual results may differ from these estimates if competitive
factors dictate the need to enhance or reduce sales promotion and incentive
accruals or if the customer usage and field inventory levels vary from
historical trends. Adjustments to sales promotions and incentive accruals are
made from time to time as actual usage becomes known in order to properly
estimate the amounts necessary to generate consumer demand based on market
conditions as of the balance sheet date. As of October 31, 2006, we had
$50.1 million accrued for sales promotions and incentives. 

     Inventory
Valuation.     We value our inventories at the
lower of the cost of inventory or net realizable value, with cost determined by
either the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for most U.S. inventories or the
first-in, first-out (FIFO) method for all other inventories. We establish
reserves for excess, slow moving, and obsolete inventory based on inventory
levels, expected product lives, and forecasted sales demand. Valuation of
inventory can also be affected by significant redesign of existing products or
replacement of an existing product by an entirely new generation product. In
assessing the ultimate realization of inventories, we are required to make
judgments as to future demand requirements compared with inventory levels.
Reserve requirements are developed according to our projected demand
requirements based on historical demand, competitive factors, and technological
and product life cycle changes. It is possible that an increase in our reserve
may be required in the future if there is a significant decline in demand for
our products and we do not adjust our manufacturing production accordingly. 

  We also record a reserve for
inventory shrinkage. Our inventory shrinkage reserve represents anticipated
physical inventory losses that are recorded based on historical loss trends,
ongoing cycle-count and periodic testing adjustments, and inventory levels.
Though management considers reserve balances adequate and proper, changes in
economic conditions in specific markets in which we operate could have an
effect on the reserve balances required. As of October 31, 2006, we had
$17.7 million reserved for excess and obsolete inventory.  

     Accounts and Notes
Receivable Valuation.     We value accounts and
notes receivable, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. Each quarter, we
prepare an analysis of our ability to collect outstanding receivables that
provides a basis for an allowance estimate for doubtful accounts. In doing so,
we evaluate the age of our receivables, past collection history, current
financial conditions of key customers, and economic conditions. Based on this
evaluation, we establish a reserve for specific accounts and notes receivable
that we believe are uncollectible, as well as an estimate of uncollectible
receivables not specifically known. Portions of our accounts receivable are
protected by a security interest in products held by customers, which minimizes
our collection exposure. A deterioration in the financial condition of any key
customer or a significant slow down in the economy could have a material negative
impact on our ability to collect a portion or all of the accounts and notes
receivable. We believe that an analysis of historical trends and our current
knowledge of potential collection problems provide us with sufficient
information to establish a reasonable estimate for an allowance for doubtful
accounts. However, since we cannot predict with certainty future changes in the
financial stability of our customers or in the general economy, our actual
future losses from uncollectible accounts may differ from our estimates. In the
event we determined that a smaller or larger uncollectible accounts reserve is
appropriate, we would record a credit or charge to selling, general, and
administrative expense in the period that we made such a determination. As of October 31,
2006, we had $2.8 million reserved against our accounts and notes receivable. 

   New Accounting Pronouncements to be Adopted     

  In October 2006, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.  SFAS No. 158
requires employers to recognize on their balance sheets the funded status of
pension and other postretirement benefit plans. In   

31     

addition, employers will recognize, as a component of
other comprehensive income, changes in the funded status of pension and other
postretirement benefit plans, such as actuarial gains and losses and prior
service costs that arise during the year but are not recognized as components
of net periodic benefit cost. SFAS No. 158 will require the measurement
date of plan assets and benefit obligations to be as of the end of the employer s
fiscal year. We will adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 158, which requires
the funded status of pension and other postretirement benefit plans to be
recorded on the balance sheet as of October 31, 2007, as required, and we
will adopt the provisions that require the measurement date of plan assets and
benefit obligations to be the same as our fiscal year end as of October 31,
2009, as required. This new pronouncement is not expected to have a material
impact on our financial condition, and will have no impact on our consolidated
results of operations.  

  In August 2006, the FASB issued Staff Position No. AUG
AIR-1,  Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities.  This Staff
Position prohibits the use of the accrue-in-advance method of accounting for
planned major maintenance activities in annual and interim financial reporting
periods. We will adopt the provisions of this Staff Position as of November 1,
2007, as required. We are currently evaluating the requirements of Staff
Position No. AUG AIR-1 and do not expect the adoption of this Staff
Position will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations
or financial condition.  

  In July 2006, the FASB
issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes 
(FIN No. 48). This interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty
in income taxes recognized in an entity s financial statements in accordance
with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  It prescribes a
recognition threshold and measurement attributes for financial statement
disclosure of tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return. We
will adopt the provisions of this interpretation in the first quarter of fiscal
2008, as required. We are currently evaluating the requirements of FIN No. 48
and we do not expect this new pronouncement will have a material impact on our
consolidated financial condition or results of operations.  

   ITEM
7A.       QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE   DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
RISK 

  We are exposed to market
risk stemming from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates,
and commodity prices. We are also exposed to equity market risk pertaining to
the trading price of our common stock. Changes in these factors could cause
fluctuations in our net earnings and cash flows. See further discussions on
these market risks below.  

     Foreign
Currency Exchange Rate Risk.       In the normal course of business,
we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency market risk by entering
into various hedging instruments, authorized under company policies that place
controls on these activities, with counterparties that are highly rated
financial institutions. Our hedging activities involve the primary use of
forward currency contracts. We use derivative instruments only in an attempt to
limit underlying exposure from currency fluctuations and to minimize earnings
and cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate
changes, and not for trading purposes. We are exposed to foreign currency
exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business,
such as sales and loans to wholly owned subsidiaries as well as sales to third
party customers and purchases from suppliers. Because our products are
manufactured or sourced primarily from the United States, a stronger U.S.
dollar generally has a negative impact on results from operations outside the
United States, while a weaker dollar generally has a positive effect. Our
primary currency exchange rate exposure is with the Euro, the Japanese yen, the
Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, and the Mexican peso
against the U.S. dollar. 

  We enter into various contracts, principally forward
contracts that change in value as foreign exchange rates change, to protect the
value of existing foreign currency assets, liabilities, anticipated sales, and
probable commitments. Decisions on whether to use such contracts are made based
on the amount of exposures to the currency involved and an assessment of the
near-term market value for each currency. Worldwide foreign currency exchange
rate exposures are reviewed monthly. The gains and losses on these contracts
offset changes in the value of the related exposures. Therefore, changes in
market values of these hedge instruments are highly correlated with changes in
market values of underlying hedged items both at inception of the hedge and
over the life of the hedge contract.  During fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, the amount of losses treated as a
reduction of net sales for contracts to hedge sales were $0.4 million, $3.0
million, and $7.1 million, respectively. The gains treated as a reduction to
cost of sales for contracts to hedge inventory purchases was $0.1 million for
fiscal 2006 and $1.3 million for fiscal 2005. 

  The
following foreign currency exchange contracts held by us have maturity dates in
fiscal 2007. All items are non-trading and   

32     

stated in U.S. dollars. Some derivative instruments we
enter into do not meet the hedging criteria of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities;  therefore, changes in fair
value are recorded in other income, net. The average contracted rate, notional
amount, pre-tax value of derivative instruments in accumulated other
comprehensive loss (AOCL), and fair value impact of derivative instruments in
other income, net as of October 31, 2006 were as follows:  

Our net
investment in foreign subsidiaries translated into U.S. dollars is not hedged.
Any changes in foreign currency exchange rates would be reflected as a foreign
currency translation adjustment, a component of accumulated other comprehensive
loss in stockholders  equity, and would not impact net earnings.  

     Interest Rate Risk.     Our
market risk on interest rates relates primarily to LIBOR-based short-term debt
from commercial banks as well as the potential increase in fair value of
long-term debt resulting from a potential decrease in interest rates. However,
we do not have a cash flow or earnings exposure due to market risks on
long-term debt. We currently do not use interest rate swaps to mitigate the
impact of fluctuations in interest rates. As of October 31, 2006, our
financial liabilities with exposure to changes in interest rates consisted
mainly of $0.3 million of short-term debt outstanding. Assuming a hypothetical
increase of one percent (100 basis points) in short-term interest rates, with
all other variables remaining constant including the average balance of
short-term debt outstanding during fiscal 2006, interest expense would have
increased $0.4 million in fiscal 2006. Included in long-term debt is $175.0
million of fixed-rate debt that is not subject to variable interest rate fluctuations.
As a result, we have no earnings or cash flow exposure due to market risks on
our long-term debt obligations. As of October 31, 2006, the estimated fair
value of long-term debt with fixed interest rates was $184.9 million compared
to its carrying value of $175.0 million. The fair value is estimated by
discounting the projected cash flows using the rate that similar amounts of
debt could currently be borrowed. 

     Commodity
Risk.       We
are subject to market risk from fluctuating market prices of certain purchased
commodity raw materials including steel, aluminum, fuel, petroleum-based resin,
and linerboard. In addition, we are a purchaser of components and parts
containing various commodities, including steel, aluminum, copper, rubber, and
others which are integrated into our end products. While such materials are
typically available from numerous suppliers, commodity raw materials are
subject to price fluctuations. We generally buy these commodities and components
based upon market prices that are established with the vendor as part of the
purchase process. We generally attempt to obtain firm pricing from most of our
suppliers for volumes consistent with planned production. To the extent that
commodity prices increase and we do not have firm pricing from our suppliers,
or our suppliers are not able to honor such prices, we may experience a decline
in our gross margins to the extent we are not able to increase selling prices
of our products or obtain manufacturing efficiencies to offset increases in
commodity costs. Further information regarding rising prices for commodities is
presented in Item 7, section entitled  Inflation.  

  We enter into fixed-price
contracts for future purchases of natural gas in the normal course of
operations as a means to manage natural gas price risks. These contracts meet
the definition of  normal purchases or normal sales  and therefore, are not
considered derivative instruments for accounting purposes. Our manufacturing
facilities enter into these fixed-price contracts for approximately 70 to 85
percent of their monthly anticipated usage.  

     Equity
Price Risk.         The
trading price volatility of Toro common stock impacts compensation expense
related to our stock-based compensation plans. Further information is presented
in Note 9 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements regarding our
stock-based compensation plans. 

33  

Item 8.                 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

   Management s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting     

  Management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for The Toro Company and its
subsidiaries. This system is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.  

  The Company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  

  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements and even when
determined to be effective, can only provide reasonable assurance with respect
to financial statement preparation and presentation. Also, projection of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to
future periods is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree or compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  Management, with the participation of the Company s
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of October 31,
2006. In making this evaluation, management used the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework . Based on this
assessment, management concluded that the Company s internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of October 31, 2006.  

  KPMG LLP, the Company s
independent registered public accounting firm, audited management s assessment
of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting
and, based on that audit, issued the report which is included herein.  

/s/ Michael J. Hoffman  

Chairman
  of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/ Stephen P. Wolfe  

Vice
  President Finance and Chief Financial Officer  

Further discussion of the Company s internal controls
and procedures is included in Item 9A of this report, under the caption  Controls
and Procedures.   

34  

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting     

  The Stockholders and Board
of Directors 
 The Toro Company: 

  We have audited management s assessment, included in
the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,
that The Toro Company and its subsidiaries (the Company) maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2006, based on
the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). The Toro Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.  

  We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  A company s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial
statements.  

  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.  

  In our opinion, management s assessment that The Toro
Company and its subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of October 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all
material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, The Toro
Company and its subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2006, based on
the COSO criteria.  

  We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheets of The Toro Company and its
subsidiaries as of October 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, cash flows, and stockholders  equity for each of the
years in the three year period ended October 31, 2006, and our report
dated December 22, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  

Minneapolis, Minnesota 
December 22, 2006  

35     

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm     

  The Stockholders and Board
of Directors 
The Toro Company:  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of The Toro Company and subsidiaries as of October 31, 2006 and
2005, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows, and
stockholders  equity for each of the years in the three year period ended October 31,
2006. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in Item
15(a) 2. These consolidated financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of The Toro Company and subsidiaries as of October 31, 2006 and
2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
years in the three year period ended October 31, 2006 in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the
related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.  

  We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the effectiveness of The Toro Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of October 31, 2006, based on the criteria
established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO), and our report dated December 22, 2006, expressed an unqualified
opinion on management s assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal
control over financial reporting.  

Minneapolis, Minnesota 

  December 22, 2006  

36  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
EARNINGS     

The financial statements should
be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

37  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS     

The financial statements should
be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

38  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

The financial statements should
be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

39  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS 
EQUITY     

The financial statements should be
read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

40  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS     

1   

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT 
  ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  AND RELATED DATA   

Basis of
Presentation and Consolidation     

  The accompanying
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and its
majority-owned subsidiaries. The company uses the equity method to account for
investments over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence
over operating and financial policies. Consolidated net earnings include the
company s share of the net earnings (losses) of these companies. The cost
method is used to account for investments in companies that the company does
not control and for which it does not have the ability to exercise significant
influence over operating and financial policies. In accordance with the cost
method, these investments are recorded at cost or fair value, as appropriate.
All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated from
the consolidated financial statements.  

   Accounting
Estimates     

  The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and the reported
amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.  

   Reclassifications     

  Certain
amounts from prior years  financial statements have been reclassified to
conform to the current year presentation. The reclassifications had no impact
on operations as previously reported.  

   Cash and Cash
Equivalents     

  The company considers all
highly liquid investments purchased with a maturity of three months or less to
be cash equivalents.  

   Receivables     

  The company grants credit to
customers in the normal course of business. Management performs on-going credit
evaluations of customers and maintains allowances for potential credit losses.
Receivables are recorded at original carrying value less reserves for estimated
uncollectible accounts.  

   Inventories     

  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net
realizable value with cost determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method
for most inventories. The first-in, first-out (FIFO) method is used for other
inventories, constituting approximately 35 percent and 32 percent of total inventories
as of October 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The company establishes a
reserve for excess, slow-moving, and obsolete inventory that is based on the
difference between the cost and estimated net realizable value for that
inventory. These reserves are based on a review and comparison of current
inventory levels to the planned production as well as planned and historical
sales of the inventory.  

  During fiscal 2006, LIFO inventory layers were
reduced. This reduction resulted in charging lower inventory costs prevailing
in previous years to cost of sales, thus reducing cost of sales by $713,000
below the amount that would have resulted from replacing the liquidated
inventory at end of year prices.  

  Inventories
as of October 31 were as follows:  

Property and Depreciation     

  Property, plant, and equipment are carried at cost.
The company provides for depreciation of plant and equipment utilizing the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Buildings,
including leasehold improvements, are generally depreciated over 10 to
45 years, and equipment over 3 to 7 years. Tooling costs are generally
depreciated over 3 to 5 years using the straight-line method. Software and web
site development costs are generally amortized over 2 to 5 years utilizing the
straight-line method. Expenditures for major renewals and improvements, which
substantially increase the useful lives of existing assets, are capitalized,
and maintenance and repairs are charged to operating expenses as incurred.
Interest is capitalized during the construction period for significant capital
projects. During the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004,
the company capitalized $760,000, $408,000, and $446,000 of interest, respectively.  

  Property,
plant, and equipment as of October 31 was as follows:  

41     

During fiscal years 2006, 2005,
and 2004, the company recorded depreciation expense of $41,219,000,
$41,579,000, and $34,959,000, respectively.  

   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets     

  Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price
over the fair value of net assets of businesses acquired and accounted for by
the purchase method of accounting. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  requires that
goodwill and certain other tangible assets having indefinite lives no longer be
amortized, but instead be tested annually for impairment or more frequently if
events suggest the remaining value may not be recoverable.  

  Other intangible assets with
determinable lives consist primarily of patents and non-compete agreements that
are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from two to 12
years.  

   Impairment of
Long-Lived and Intangible Assets     

  The company reviews
long-lived assets, including intangible assets and goodwill, for impairment
annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances or the occurrence of
events suggest the remaining value may not be recoverable. An asset is deemed
impaired and written down to its fair value if estimated related future cash
flows are less than its carrying value. Based on the company s annual analysis
during fiscal 2006, no long-lived assets, goodwill, or other intangible assets
were deemed impaired.  

   Accrued
Warranties     

  The
company provides an accrual for estimated future warranty costs at the time of
sale. The amount of the liability is based upon the historical relationship of
warranty claims to sales by product line and major rework campaigns. The
changes in warranty reserves were as follows:  

Insurance     

  The company is self-insured
for certain losses relating to medical, dental, workers  compensation, and
product liability claims. Specific stop loss coverages are provided for
catastrophic claims in order to limit exposure to significant claims. Losses
and claims are charged to operations when it is probable a loss has been
incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Accrued insurance
liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not
reported.  

   Derivatives     

  Derivatives,
consisting mainly of forward currency contracts, are used to hedge most foreign
currency transactions and forecasted sales and purchases denominated in foreign
currencies. Derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. If
the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the
change in the fair value of the derivative is recorded to a separate component
of stockholders  equity, captioned accumulated other comprehensive loss, and
recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. Derivatives that
do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting are adjusted to fair value
through other income, net in the consolidated statements of earnings.  

   Foreign
Currency Translation and Transactions     

  The functional currency of
the company s foreign operations is the applicable local currency. The functional
currency is translated into U.S. dollars for balance sheet accounts using
current exchange rates in effect as of the balance sheet date and for revenue
and expense accounts using a weighted-average exchange rate during the fiscal
year. The translation adjustments are deferred as a separate component of
stockholders  equity, captioned accumulated other comprehensive loss. Gains or
losses resulting from transactions denominated in foreign currencies are
included in other income, net in the consolidated statements of earnings.  

   Income Taxes     

  Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable
income in the years that those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date. The company has reflected the necessary deferred tax assets and
liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Management believes
the future tax deductions will be realized principally through carryback to
taxable income in prior years, future reversals of existing taxable temporary
differences, and future taxable income.  

   Revenue
Recognition     

  Toro recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, title and risk of ownership passes, the sales price is
fixed or determinable, and collectibility is probable. These criteria are
typically met at the time product is shipped, or in the case of certain
agreements, when product is delivered. The company sells some of its products
on consignment to a key retailer. Toro recognizes revenue for these consignment
transactions when the product is shipped from the retailers  distribution
centers to   

42     

their stores. A provision is made at the time the related
revenue is recognized for estimated product returns, cost of product warranties,
floor plan costs, rebates, and other sales promotional expenses.  

  Retail customers may obtain financing through a
third-party financing company to assist in their purchase of the company s products.
Most of these leases are classified as sales-type leases. However, based on the
terms and conditions of the financing agreements, some transactions are
classified as operating leases, which results in recognition of revenue over
the lease term on a straight-line basis.  

  Revenue earned from service
and maintenance contracts is recognized ratably over the contractual period.
Revenue from extended warranty programs is deferred at the time the contract is
sold and amortized into net sales using the straight-line method over the
extended warranty period. Freight revenue billed to customers is also included
in net sales.  

   Sales
Promotions and Incentives     

  At the time of sale, the
company records an estimate for sales promotion and incentive costs. Examples
of sales promotion and incentive programs include rebate programs on certain
professional products sold to distributors, volume discounts, retail financing
support, cooperative advertising, commissions, and other sales discounts and
promotional programs. The estimates of sales promotion and incentive costs are
based on the terms of the arrangements with customers, historical payment
experience, field inventory levels, volume purchases, and expectations for
changes in relevant trends in the future. The expense of each program is either
classified as a reduction of net sales or as a component of selling, general,
and administrative expense.  

   Cost of Sales     

  Cost of sales primarily
comprises direct materials and supplies consumed in the manufacture of product,
as well as manufacturing labor, depreciation expense, and direct overhead
expense necessary to convert purchased materials and supplies into finished
product. Cost of sales also includes inbound freight costs, outbound freight
costs for shipping products to customers, obsolescence expense, cost of
services provided, and cash discounts on payments to vendors.  

   Selling,
General, and Administrative Expense     

  Selling, general, and
administrative expense primarily comprises payroll and benefit costs, occupancy
and operating costs of distribution and corporate facilities, warranty expense,
depreciation and amortization expense on non-manufacturing assets, advertising
and marketing expenses, selling expenses, engineering and research costs,
information systems costs, incentive and profit sharing expense, and other
miscellaneous administrative costs, such as legal costs for internal and
outside services that are expensed as incurred.  

   Cost of
Financing Distributor/Dealer Inventory     

  The company enters into inventory repurchase
agreements with third party financing companies. The company has repurchased
immaterial amounts of inventory from third party financing companies over the
last three fiscal years. However, an adverse change in retail sales could cause
this situation to change and thereby require Toro to repurchase financed
product. See Note 12 for additional information regarding the company s
repurchase arrangements.  

  Included in net sales are
costs associated with programs under which the company shares the expense of
financing distributor and dealer inventories, referred to as floor plan
expenses. This charge represents interest for a pre-established length of time
based on a predefined rate from a contract with a third party financing source
to finance distributor and dealer inventory purchases. These financing
arrangements are used by the company as a marketing tool to assist customers to
buy inventory. The financing costs for distributor and dealer inventories were
$13,952,000, $11,866,000, and $10,521,000 for the fiscal years ended October 31,
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.  

   Advertising     

  General advertising
expenditures and the related production costs are expensed in the period
incurred or the first time advertising takes place. Cooperative advertising
represents expenditures for shared advertising costs that the company
reimburses to customers. These obligations are accrued and expensed when the
related revenues are recognized in accordance with the programs established for
various product lines. Advertising costs were $44,134,000, $42,827,000, and
$38,115,000 for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.  

   Stock-Based
Compensation     

  Effective November 1,
2004, the company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004),  Share-Based
Payment.  The company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123R using the
modified prospective application, which applies to new awards granted, unvested
awards as of the date of adoption, and to awards modified, repurchased, or
cancelled after the date of adoption. SFAS No. 123R focuses primarily on
accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services
through stock-based payment transactions. SFAS No. 123R requires
measurement of the cost of employee services received in exchange for the award
of equity instruments based on the fair value of the award as of the date of
grant. The company s stock-based compensation awards include performance shares
issued to key employees that are contingent on the achievement of performance
goals of the company as well as non-qualified options. See Note 9   

43     

for additional information
regarding stock-based compensation plans.  

  The company had previously accounted for these
stock-based compensation awards under the recognition and measurement principles
of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees,  (APB No. 25), and related Interpretations. This
method defined the cost for stock-based awards as the excess of the stock s
market value at the time of grant over the amount that the employee is required
to pay. Since the company s stock option awards were granted based on the
underlying stock s market value as of the date of grant, no compensation
expense was recognized under the provisions of APB No. 25. However, the
change in value of the performance shares (based on the change in Toro s stock
price) was recognized in the consolidated financial statements and the cost of
the award was expensed over the vesting period under the provisions of APB No. 25.
Had stock-based compensation costs been recorded at fair value consistent with
the provisions of SFAS No. 123R, fiscal 2004 net earnings would have been
$104.9 million, net earnings per basic share would have been $2.15, and net
earnings per diluted share would have been $2.07.  

   Net Earnings Per Share     

  Basic net earnings per share is calculated using net
earnings available to common stockholders divided by the weighted-average
number of shares of common stock outstanding during the year plus the assumed
issuance of contingent shares. Diluted net earnings per share is similar to
basic net earnings per share except that the weighted-average number of shares
of common stock outstanding plus the assumed issuance of contingent shares is increased
to include the number of additional shares of common stock that would have been
outstanding assuming the issuance of all potentially dilutive shares, such as
common stock to be issued upon exercise of options, contingently issuable
shares, and non-vested restricted shares.  

  Reconciliations of basic and
dilutive weighted-average shares of common stock are as follows:  

Cash Flow Presentation     

  The consolidated statements of cash flows are prepared
using the indirect method, which reconciles net earnings to cash flow from
operating activities. The necessary adjustments include the removal of timing
differences between the occurrence of operating receipts and payments and their
recognition in net earnings. The adjustments also remove from operating
activities cash flows arising from investing and financing activities, which
are presented separately from operating activities. Cash flows from foreign
currency transactions and operations are translated at an average exchange rate
for the period. Cash paid for acquisitions is classified as investing activities.  

   Statement of Stockholders  Equity Information     

  Components of accumulated
other comprehensive loss as of October 31 were as follows:  

New Accounting Pronouncements     

  In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations,  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143.
FASB Interpretation No. 47 clarifies the timing of liability recognition
for legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived
assets when the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future
event. We adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 47 on November 1,
2005, as required, and the adoption of this Interpretation did not have a
material impact to our fiscal 2006 consolidated results of operations or
financial condition.  

  In November 2004,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs,  which amended the
guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to clarify the
accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling
costs, and wasted material. This Statement requires that those items be
recognized as current-period charges regardless of whether they meet the   

44     

criterion of  so abnormal.  In addition, this Statement requires that
the allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be
based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. We adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 151 on November 1, 2005, as required. The
adoption of SFAS No. 151 did not have a material impact on our
consolidated results of operations and financial condition.  

2   

BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS AND  
  DIVESTITURES   

On February 8, 2005, the company completed the
acquisition of certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Hayter Limited
(Hayter). Hayter designs, manufactures, and markets residential and
professional turf maintenance equipment primarily for the United Kingdom
market, with annual sales of approximately $50 million. The purchase price was
$35.3 million, which was paid in cash, and included $31.0 million of current assets;
$10.6 million of property, plant, and equipment; $7.2 million of intangible
assets; and $13.5 million of assumed liabilities. The purchase price was
allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on
estimates of their fair value, with the excess purchase price recorded as
goodwill. See Note 4 entitled  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  for
further details related to the acquired intangible assets.  

  During the first quarter of
fiscal 2005, the company completed the sale of its southwestern-based
distribution company. In fiscal 2004, the company made an equity investment in
a start-up technology company that produces innovative irrigation controllers
designed to conserve water usage. The company also acquired a
southeastern-based U.S. distributing company during fiscal 2003, and
subsequently sold it during fiscal 2004. These acquisitions, investment, and
divestitures were not material to the company s consolidated financial position
and results of operations.  

3   

OTHER INCOME, NET    

Other income (expense) is as
follows:  

4   

GOODWILL AND OTHER 
  INTANGIBLE ASSETS   

Goodwill  
   The changes in the net carrying amount of goodwill   for fiscal 2006 and 2005
were as follows: 

Other Intangible Assets      Total
other intangible assets, net as of October 31, 2006 and 2005 were $5,225,000
and $5,452,000, respectively. During fiscal 2006 and 2005, the company recorded
some amortizable intangible assets related to the acquisition of R   D
Engineering in fiscal 2003. In addition, the company also has $2.7 million of
non-amortizable intangible assets related to the Hayter brand name. 

  The
components of other amortizable intangible assets were as follows:  

45     

Amortization
expense for intangible assets for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006,
2005, and 2004 was $864,000, $770,000, and $653,000, respectively. Estimated
amortization expense for the succeeding fiscal years is as follows: 2007,
$830,000; 2008, $595,000; 2009, $251,000; 2010, $175,000; 2011, $175,000; and
after 2011, $528,000.  

5   

SHORT-TERM CAPITAL RESOURCES   

The company has a $175.0
million unsecured senior five-year revolving credit facility, which expires in October 2010.
We had no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility as of October 31,
2006 and 2005. Interest expense on this credit line is determined based on a
LIBOR rate plus a basis point spread defined in the credit agreement. In
addition, the company s non-U.S. operations and a domestic subsidiary maintain
unsecured short-term lines of credit of $16.9 million. These facilities bear
interest at various rates depending on the rates in their respective countries
of operation. The company had $320,000 and $325,000 outstanding as of October 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively, under these lines of credit. The weighted-average
interest rate on short-term debt outstanding as of October 31, 2006 and
2005 was 6.15 percent and 4.65 percent, respectively. The company was in
compliance with all covenants related to the several lines of credit described
above as of October 31, 2006.  

6   

LONG-TERM DEBT    

A summary of long-term
debt as of October 31 is as follows:   

The company has $75 million of notes due on June 15,
2007 that are classified as long-term debt as the company is in the process of
evaluating several alternatives for replacing this debt, including refinancing
the obligation on a long-term basis using funds available under the company s
current credit facilities. The company believes it will obtain cost effective
financing in advance of the repayment of the $75 million notes due June 15,
2007.  

  In connection with the issuance in June 1997 of
the $175.0 million in long-term debt securities, the company paid $23.7 million
to terminate three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements with notional
amounts totaling $125.0 million. These swap agreements had been entered into to
reduce exposure to interest rate risk prior to the issuance of the new
long-term debt securities. As of the inception of one of the swap agreements,
the company had received payments that were recorded as deferred income to be
recognized as an adjustment to interest expense over the term of the new debt
securities. As of the date the swaps were terminated, this deferred income
totaled $18.7 million. The excess termination fees over the deferred income
recorded has been deferred and is being recognized as an adjustment to interest
expense over the term of the debt securities issued.  

  Principal payments required
on long-term debt in each of the next five fiscal years ending October 31
are as follows: 2007, $75,000,000; 2008, $0; 2009, $0; 2010, $0; 2011, $0; and
after 2011, $100,000,000.  

7   

STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY   

Stock
repurchase program      In March 2004, the
company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 1,000,000 shares of
the company s common stock. In May 2004, the Board of Directors authorized
an additional 2,000,000 shares for repurchase. In September 2004, the
Board of Directors authorized an additional 1,000,000 shares for repurchase,
which was doubled to 2,000,000 shares as a result of a two-for-one stock split
effective March 28, 2005. In July 2005, the Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of an additional 2,000,000 shares. In July 2006,
the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 3,000,000
shares. During fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, the company paid $146.5 million,
$157.0 million, and $169.8 million to repurchase an aggregate of 3,369,285
shares, 3,922,805 shares, and 5,270,814 shares, respectively. As of
October 31, 2006, 1,476,904 shares remained authorized for repurchase. 

46  

Shareholder
rights plan      Under the terms of a Rights
Agreement dated as of May 20, 1998 between Toro and Wells Fargo Bank,
National Association (the successor to Norwest Bank Minnesota, National
Association), each share of the company s common stock entitles its holder to
one preferred share purchase right. These rights become exercisable only if a
person or group acquires, or announces a tender offer that would result in,
ownership of 15 percent or more of Toro s common stock. Each right will then
entitle the holder to buy a one four-hundredth interest in a share of a series
of preferred stock, at a price of $180 per one one-hundredth of a preferred
share. Among other things under the plan, if a person or group acquires 15
percent or more of Toro s outstanding common stock, each right entitles its
holder (other than the acquiring person or group) to purchase the number of
shares of common stock of Toro having a market value of twice the exercise
price of the right. The Board of Directors may redeem the rights for $0.0025
per right at any time before a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of
15 percent or more of the common stock. 

    Stock splits      On March 15,
2005, the company s Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of the
company s common stock, effected in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend
issued to stockholders of record as of March 28, 2005 and paid on April 12,
2005. As a result of this action, approximately 21.7 million shares were
issued. Par value of the common stock remains at $1.00 per share and
accordingly, approximately $21.7 million was transferred from retained earnings
to common stock for all periods presented. 

  All references to the number
of shares of common stock and per share of common stock amounts have been
adjusted to give retroactive effect to the stock split for all periods presented.  

8   

INCOME TAXES   

A reconciliation of the
statutory federal income tax rate to the company s consolidated effective tax
rate is summarized as follows:  

Components
of the provision for income taxes were as follows:  

The company has net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $0.6 million in foreign jurisdictions with unlimited expiration.  

  Earnings
before income taxes were as follows:  

During the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006,
2005, and 2004, respectively, $13,131,000, $5,989,000, and $9,857,000 was added
to stockholders  equity reflecting the permanent book to tax difference in
accounting for tax benefits related to employee stock-based award transactions.  

  The tax
effects of temporary differences that give rise to the net deferred income tax
assets (liabilities) are presented below:  

47     

As of October 31,
2006, the company had approximately $16.1 million of accumulated undistributed
earnings of subsidiaries outside of the United States that are considered to be
reinvested indefinitely. No deferred tax liability has been provided for such
earnings.  

9   

STOCK-BASED
  COMPENSATION PLANS   

Under the company s stock option plans, certain
employees and non-employee directors have been granted options to purchase
shares of common stock at prices equal to the fair market value of the company s
common stock on the date the option was granted. A majority of these awards are
non-qualified options, and for certain non-officer employees, the options vest
after two years from the date of grant and have a five-year contractual term.
Other options granted during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 vest one-third
each year over a three-year period and have a ten-year contractual term.
Compensation expense is recognized for these awards over the vesting period.
The number of unissued shares of common stock available for future grants under
the company s stock-based compensation plans was 949,469 as of October 31,
2006.  

  In 1999, the company s stockholders approved a
long-term incentive plan called The Toro Company Performance Share Plan. Under
this plan, key employees are granted the right to receive shares of common
stock or deferred common stock units, contingent on the achievement of
performance goals of the company, which are generally measured over a
three-year period. The number of shares of common stock a participant receives
will be increased (up to 200 percent of target levels) or reduced (down to
zero) based on the level of achievement of performance goals, and vest over a three-year
period. Compensation expense is recognized for these awards on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period based on the fair value as of the date of grant
and the probability of achieving performance goals. The number of unissued shares
of common stock available for future grants under the company s Performance
Share Plan was 1,043,885 as of October 31, 2006.  

  A summary of activity under
the plans previously described is presented below:  

1        Weighted-average exercise price    

  2        Weighted-average contractual life in years    

  Total stock-based compensation expense for these plans
was $6,269,000 and $9,145,000 for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively. Prior to fiscal 2005, the company recognized
stock-based compensation expense under the provisions of APB No. 25, which
totaled $16,027,000 for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2004. The total
intrinsic value of options (the amount by which the stock price exceeded the
strike price of the option on the date of exercise) that were exercised during
the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 was $37.5 million,
$20.7 million, and $30.8 million, respectively.  

48     

The table below presents the
nonvested options and performance share awards as of October 31, 2006, and
changes during the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006:  

As of October 31,
2006, there was $1,678,000 of total unrecognized compensation expense related
to non-vested stock option compensation arrangements granted under the company s
plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
1.3 years. As of October 31, 2006, there was $2,339,000 of total
unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested performance share
compensation arrangements granted under the company s plan. That cost is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years.  

  The
fair value of each option is estimated on the date of grant using a
Black-Scholes valuation method that uses the assumptions noted in the following
table. The expected life is a significant assumption as it determines the
period for which the risk-free interest rate, volatility, and dividend yield
must be applied. The expected life is the average length of time over which the
employee groups will exercise their options, which is based on historical
experience with similar grants. Separate groups of employees that have similar
historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes.
Expected volatilities are based on the movement of the company s stock price
over the most recent historical period equivalent to the expected life of the
option. The risk-free interest rate for periods within the contractual life of
the option is based on the U.S. Treasury rate over the expected life at the
time of grant. Dividend yield is estimated over the expected life based on the
company s dividend policy, historical dividends paid, expected increase in
future cash dividends, and expected increase in the company s stock price.  

  The following table illustrates the valuation of
stock-based compensation in the following fiscal years.  

On July 31, 1995, the company issued 68,968
shares of restricted stock and 68,968 performance units to the Chief Executive
Officer under the terms of The Toro Company Chief Executive Officer Succession
Incentive Award Agreement, which was approved by the company s stockholders in
1994. The value of each performance unit is equal to the fair market value of a
share of common stock. The restricted stock and performance units vest based
upon achievement of specified succession planning goals. For each of the fiscal
years ended October 31, 2000 and 1999, 10,480 shares and 10,480
performance units vested. During fiscal 2005, the remaining 48,908 restricted
shares and 48,908 performance units vested due to the completion of the
succession planning goals. Compensation expense related to this plan was
$372,000, $167,000, and $1,102,000 for the fiscal years ended October 31,
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.  

10   

EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS   

The company maintains
The Toro Company Investment, Savings and Employee Stock Ownership Plan for
eligible employees. The company s expenses under this plan were $15,150,000,
$14,780,000, and $14,200,000 for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006,
2005, and 2004, respectively.  

  The
company also sponsors a plan that provides health-care benefits to eligible employees
upon retirement, up to age 65. The health-care benefit plan is contributory,
with retiree contributions based on active employee participation rates. The
company funds these benefits for retirees on an annual basis. The company uses
fiscal year end as the measurement date for this plan.  

49     

Reconciliation of the funded
status of this plan is as follows:  

The company
amended its health-care benefit plan as of the end of fiscal 2004 to reduce
benefits offered to certain eligible employees over a transition period.  

  Assumptions used in
calculations are:  

The
annual increase in cost of postretirement benefits is assumed to decrease
gradually in future years, reaching an ultimate rate of 5 percent in fiscal
2012.  

  Components of net benefit
cost each fiscal year are as follows:  

Assumed
trend rates for health-care costs have an important effect on the amounts
reported for postretirement benefit plans. If the health-care cost trend rate
increased by 1 percentage point, the postretirement benefit obligation as of October 31,
2006 would increase by $743,000. If the health-care cost trend rate decreased
by 1 percentage point, the postretirement benefit obligation as of October 31,
2006 would decrease by $664,000.  

  The
benefits expected to be paid by the company in each fiscal year from fiscal
years 2007-2011 are $628,000, $641,000, $535,000, $633,000, and $807,000,
respectively. The aggregate benefits expected to be paid by the company in the
five fiscal years from 2012-2016 are $4,863,000. The expected benefits to
be paid are based on the same assumptions used to measure the company s benefit
obligation as of October 31, 2006.  

  In addition, the company and
its subsidiaries have defined benefit, supplemental, and other retirement plans
covering certain employees in the U.S. and the United Kingdom. The projected
benefit obligation of these plans as of October 31, 2006 and 2005 was
$31,127,000 and $27,036,000, respectively, and the net liability amount
recognized in the consolidated balance sheets as of October 31, 2006 and
2005 was $3,144,000 and $2,707,000, respectively. The fair value of the plan
assets as of October 31, 2006 and 2005 was $24,586,000 and $21,066,000,
respectively. The net expense recognized in the consolidated financial
statements for these plans was $846,000, $606,000, and $290,000 for the fiscal
years ended October 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.  

Toro develops, manufactures, and sells a wide variety
of turf maintenance products used in the professional and residential markets.
The company s principal businesses are based on Toro s ability to provide
comprehensive, integrated solutions that create, maintain, enhance, and
conserve beautiful and functional landscapes. The company s reportable segments
are strategic business units that offer different products and services and are
managed separately based on fundamental differences in their operations.  

   Reportable   Segments   

  The professional segment consists of turf equipment
and irrigation products. Turf equipment products include sports fields and
grounds maintenance equipment, golf course mowing and maintenance equipment,
landscape contractor mowing equipment, landscape creation equipment, and other
maintenance equipment. Irrigation products consist of sprinkler heads, electric
and hydraulic valves, controllers, computer irrigation central control systems,
and micro-irrigation drip tape and hose products. These products are sold
mainly through a network of distributors and dealers to professional users
engaged in maintaining golf courses, sports fields, municipal and industrial
properties, agricultural grounds, and residential and commercial landscapes.  

  The residential segment consists of walk power mowers,
riding mowers and tractors, snow throwers, homeowner-installed irrigation
systems, replacement parts, and electrical home solutions products, including
trimmers, blowers, and blower-vacuums. These products are sold to homeowners
through a network of distributors and dealers, and through a broad array of
hardware retailers, home centers, and mass retailers, as well as over the
Internet.  

  Effective the beginning of fiscal 2005, the company
combined the distribution segment with the other segment because the net sales
and total assets of the company-owned distributorships that comprised the
former distribution segment no longer met the quantitative thresholds for
separate reporting as an operating segment for all periods presented.  

50  

The other segment consists of company-owned domestic
distributor operations, corporate activities, including corporate financing
activities and elimination of intersegment revenues and expenses. Corporate
activities include general corporate expenditures (finance, human resources,
legal, information services, public relations, and similar activities) and
other unallocated corporate assets and liabilities, such as corporate
facilities, financing receivables, parts inventory, and deferred tax assets.  

  The accounting policies of the segments are the same
as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies in Note 1.
The company evaluates the performance of its professional and residential
business segment results based on earnings from operations plus other income,
net. The other segment operating loss includes earnings (loss) from domestic
wholly owned distribution company operations, corporate activities, other
income, and interest expense. The business segment s operating profits or
losses include direct costs incurred at the segment s operating level plus
allocated expenses, such as profit sharing and manufacturing expenses. The
allocated expenses represent costs that these operations would have incurred
otherwise, but do not include general corporate expenses, interest expense, and
income taxes. The company accounts for intersegment gross sales at current market
prices.  

  The
following table shows summarized financial information concerning the company s
reportable segments:  

The
following table presents the details of the other segment operating loss before
income taxes:  

51     

The
following table presents net sales for groups of similar products and services:  

Sales to one customer
accounted for 13 percent of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005, and
2004.  

   Geographic
Data     

  The
following geographic area data includes net sales based on product shipment
destination. Long-lived assets consists of goodwill, intangible assets, and net
property, plant, and equipment, which is determined based on physical location
in addition to allocated capital tooling from United States plant facilities.  

12   

COMMITMENTS AND
  CONTINGENT LIABILITIES    

Leases     

  Total rental expense for operating leases was
$19,448,000, $19,698,000, and $19,446,000 for the fiscal years ended October 31,
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. As of October 31, 2006, future minimum
lease payments under noncancelable operating leases amounted to $30,700,000 as
follows: 2007, $11,879,000; 2008, $9,290,000; 2009, $5,053,000; 2010, $2,482,000;
2011, $1,207,000; and after 2011, $789,000.  

   Customer Financing     

    Wholesale Financing      Independent
Toro dealers that do not finance through Toro Credit Company finance their inventories
with third party financing sources. Exmark and international products sold to
dealers are financed primarily with third party financing sources or by the
distributor. Third party financing companies purchased $451,019,000 of
receivables of the company s financed products during fiscal 2006. The
outstanding receivable balance owed from the company s distributors and dealers
to third party financing companies was $189,055,000 on October 31, 2006.
The company s maximum exposure for credit recourse with a third party financing
company related to receivables under these financing arrangements was $550,000
as of October 31, 2006. Toro also enters into limited inventory repurchase
agreements with third party financing companies. As of October 31, 2006,
the company was contingently liable to repurchase up to $3,500,000 of inventory
related to receivables under these financing arrangements. Toro has repurchased
only immaterial amounts of inventory from third party financing companies over
the last three years. 

    End-User Financing      The company has agreements with a
third party financing company to provide lease-financing options to golf course
and sports fields and grounds equipment customers in North America and Europe.
Under the terms of the agreements, the company could be contingently liable for
a portion of the credit collection and residual realization risk on the
underlying equipment for leasing transactions. The company s maximum exposure
for credit collection and residual value as of October 31, 2006 was
$15,202,000. The company has established a reserve for the estimated exposure
related to the programs, which was $2,310,000 and $2,901,000 as of October 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively. 

  In fiscal 2005, the company entered into an agreement
to sell certain accounts receivable and notes to a third party. The total
amount of receivables and notes outstanding under this agreement may not exceed
$10.0 million at any time. As of October 31, 2006, the company sold $1.3
million of receivables and notes under the terms of this agreement.  

  In the normal course of business, the company has
arrangements with other financial institutions to provide various forms of
financing options to end-user customers. From time to time, Toro s wholly-owned
subsidiaries also guarantee the residual value at the end of leases with third
party financing companies for product sold to customers. The amount of this
potential contingent liability as of October 31, 2006 and 2005 was
$3,962,000 and $2,990,000, respectively.  

   Purchase Commitments     

  As of October 31, 2006, the company had
$3,586,000 of purchase commitments with some suppliers for materials and supplies
as part of the normal course of business.  

   Letters of Credit     

  Letters of credit are issued by the company during the
normal course of business, as required by some vendor contracts. As of October 31,
2006 and 2005, the company had $11,655,000 and $10,080,000, respectively, in
outstanding letters of credit.  

   Customs Duties     

  The company is liable for
customs duties for certain products that are imported and exported between
countries. The company has   

52     

determined that it has a
potential liability for unpaid customs duties on certain products. The company
accrued an estimate of this liability during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006,
which was when it became aware of the issue, and the company is currently
working to resolve the matter with the appropriate governmental officials. Although
the ultimate resolution of this matter could potentially be different than the
original estimate, the matter is not expected to have a material impact on the
consolidated operating results or financial position of the company.  

   Litigation     

  In the ordinary course of
business, the company may become liable with respect to pending and threatened
litigation, tax, environmental, and other matters. While the ultimate results
of current claims, investigations, and lawsuits involving the company are
unknown at this time, management does not expect that these matters will have a
material adverse effect on the consolidated operating results or financial
position of the company.  

  To prevent possible infringement
of its patents by others, the company periodically reviews competitors 
products. To avoid potential liability with respect to others  patents, the
company regularly reviews patents issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office and foreign patent offices as needed. This patent program, consisting of
both types of activities, helps the company minimize risk of patent
infringement litigation. The company is currently involved in commercial
disputes and patent litigation cases, both where it is asserting patents and
where it is defending against charges of infringement. While the ultimate
results of the current cases are unknown at this time, management believes that
the outcome of these cases is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial results of the company.  

  On June 3,
2004, eight individuals who claim to have purchased lawnmowers in Illinois and
Minnesota filed a lawsuit in Illinois state court against the company and eight
other defendants alleging that the horsepower labels on the products the
plaintiffs purchased were inaccurate. On May 17, 2006, the plaintiffs
filed an amended complaint to add 84 additional plaintiffs and an engine manufacturer
as an additional defendant. The amended complaint asserts violations of the
federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act and statutory
and common law claims arising from the laws of 48 states. The plaintiffs seek
certification of a class of all persons in the United States who, beginning January 1,
1994 through the present purchased a lawnmower containing a two stroke or four
stroke gas combustible engine up to 30 horsepower that was manufactured or sold
by the defendants. The amended complaint seeks an injunction, unspecified
compensatory and punitive damages, treble damages under the RICO Act and
attorneys  fees. In late May 2006, the case was removed to
Federal court in the Southern District of Illinois. On August 1, 2006, all
of the defendants, except MTD Products Inc., filed motions to dismiss claims in
the amended complaint. On August 4, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a motion
for preliminary approval of a settlement agreement with MTD Products Inc. and
certification of a settlement class. All remaining non-settling defendants have
filed counterclaims against MTD Products Inc. for potential contribution
amounts and MTD Products Inc. has filed cross claims against the non-settling
defendants. A court hearing on the defendants  motions to dismiss and the
plaintiffs  motion for preliminary approval of the settlement agreement and
certification of a settlement class was held on August 29, 2006. As of December 22,
2006, the court has not yet ruled on these motions. On December 21, 2006,
one of the defendants, American Honda Motor Company, notified us that it had
reached an agreement of settlement with the plaintiffs. Management continues to
evaluate this lawsuit and is unable to reasonably estimate the likelihood of
loss or the amount or range of potential loss that could result from this litigation.
Therefore, no accrual has been established for potential loss in connection
with this lawsuit. The company is also unable to assess at this time whether
the lawsuit will have a material adverse effect on its annual consolidated
operating results or financial condition, although an unfavorable resolution
could be material to the company s consolidated operating results for a particular
period.  

13   

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS    

Concentrations of Credit Risk     

  Financial instruments, which
potentially subject the company to concentrations of credit risk, consist
principally of accounts receivable that are concentrated in two business
segments: professional and residential markets for outdoor landscape equipment
and systems. The credit risk associated with these segments is limited because
of the large number of customers in the company s customer base and their
geographic dispersion, except for the residential segment that has significant
sales to The Home Depot.  

   Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities     

  The company uses derivative instruments to manage
exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. Toro uses derivative instruments
only in an attempt to limit underlying exposure from currency rate
fluctuations, and not for trading purposes. The company documents all
relationships between hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as its
risk-management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The company assesses, both at the hedge s inception and on an ongoing basis,
whether the derivative instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly
effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.  

  The company enters into foreign currency exchange
contracts to hedge the risk from forecasted settlement in local currencies of
trade sales and purchases. These contracts are designated as   

53     

cash flow hedges with the
fair value recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss and as a hedge
asset or liability in prepaid expenses or accrued liabilities, as applicable.
Once the forecasted transaction has been recognized as a sale or inventory
purchase and a related asset or liability recorded in the balance sheet, the
related fair value of the derivative hedge contract is reclassified from
accumulated other comprehensive loss to sales or cost of sales. During fiscal
2006, 2005, and 2004, the amount of losses treated as a reduction of net sales
for contracts to hedge sales were $0.4 million, $3.0 million, and $7.1 million,
respectively. The gain treated as a reduction to cost of sales for contracts to
hedge inventory purchases was $0.1 million for fiscal 2006 and $1.3 million for
fiscal 2005. The unrecognized after-tax gain portion of the fair value of the
contracts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of October 31,
2006 and 2005 was $420,000 and $563,000, respectively.  

  The company also enters into
other foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge intercompany financing
transactions and other activities, which do not meet the hedge accounting
criteria of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities;  therefore, changes in fair value of these instruments are
recorded in other income, net.  

   Fair Value     

  Estimated fair value amounts
have been determined using available information and appropriate valuation
methodologies. Because considerable judgment is required in developing the
estimates of fair value, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the
amounts that could be realized in a current market exchange. For cash and cash
equivalents, receivables, short-term debt, and accounts payable, carrying value
is a reasonable estimate of fair value. The estimate of fair value for the
company s foreign currency contracts as of October 31, 2006 was a net
liability of $361,000 and a net asset of $1,579,000 as of October 31,
2005.  

  As of October 31, 2006,
the estimated fair value of long-term debt with fixed interest rates was
$184,910,000 compared to its carrying value of $175,000,000. As of October 31,
2005, the estimated fair value of long-term debt with fixed interest rates was
$191,503,000 compared to its carrying value of $175,046,000. The fair value is
estimated by discounting the projected cash flows using the rate at which
similar amounts of debt could currently be borrowed.  

14   

QUARTERLY
  FINANCIAL DATA (unaudited)    

Summarized quarterly
financial data for fiscal 2006 and 2005 are as follows:  

1       Net earnings per share amounts
do not sum to equal full year total due to changes in the number of shares
outstanding during the periods and rounding. 

  2       Per
share data has been adjusted for all periods presented to reflect a two-for-one
stock split effective March 28, 2005. 

   ITEM 9.                CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH  
ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

  None.  

   ITEM
9A.        CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   

  The company maintains
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)
that are designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be
disclosed by the company in the reports it files or submits under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized, and
reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange
Commission s rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and
communicated to the company s management, including its principal executive and
principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing
and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, we recognize that any
controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide
only reasonable   

54     

assurance of achieving the desired
control objectives, and we are required to apply our judgment in evaluating the
cost-benefit relationship of possible internal controls. The company s management
evaluated, with the participation of the company s Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the design and operation of the
company s disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on that evaluation, the
company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that
the company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end
of such period to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be
disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported
within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and that
material information relating to Toro and its consolidated subsidiaries is made
known to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, particularly during the period when our periodic reports are being
prepared. The company s management report on internal control over financial
reporting is included in this report in Item 8, under the caption  Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  The report of KPMG LLP,
the company s independent registered public accounting firm, regarding
management s assessment of the company s internal control over financial
reporting and the effectiveness of the company s internal control over
financial reporting is included in this report in Item 8, under the caption  Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting.  There was no change in the company s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the company s fourth fiscal
quarter ended October 31, 2006 that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the company s internal control over
financial reporting.  

   ITEM
9B.        OTHER INFORMATION   

  None.  

PART III     

ITEM 10.         DIRECTORS
AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS   OF
THE REGISTRANT 

  Information on executive officers required by this
item is incorporated by reference from  Executive Officers of the Registrant 
in Part I of this report. Additional information on certain executive
officers and other information required by this item is incorporated by
reference to information to be contained under the captions   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance ,  Election of Directors   Nominees for Election to
Board of Directors ,  Election of Directors   Members of Board of
Directors Continuing in Office , and  Corporate Governance   Code of
Conduct and Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers , in the
company s 2007 proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  

  During the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2006, the company made no material changes to the procedures by which
stockholders may recommend nominees to the board of directors, as described in
the company s most recent proxy statement. The company intends to satisfy
disclosure requirements regarding its code of ethics, including amendments to
or waivers from the code, by posting such information on the company s web site
at www.thetorocompany.com/corporategovernance.  

   ITEM 11.         EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION   

  Information required by this
item is incorporated by reference to information to be contained under the
captions  Election of Directors   Board Compensation  and  Executive
Compensation   in the company s 2007
proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

   ITEM 12.         SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN   BENEFICIAL
OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

  Information required by this
item is incorporated by reference to information to be contained under the
captions  Stock Ownership  and  Executive Compensation   Equity
Compensation Plan Information  in the company s 2007 proxy statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

   ITEM 13.         CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND    RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

  Information required by this
item is incorporated by reference to information to be contained under the
caption  Election of Directors   Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions , in the company s 2007 proxy statement to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  

   ITEM 14.         PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   

  Information required by this item is incorporated by
reference to information to be contained under the captions  Ratify Selection
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   Audit, Audit-Related,
Tax and Other Fees  and  Ratify Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm   Auditor Fees Pre-approval Policy  in the company s 2007 proxy
statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

55  

PART IV     

ITEM 15.         EXHIBITS
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT   SCHEDULES 

   (a) 1.   List
of Financial Statements     

  The following consolidated financial statements of The
Toro Company and its subsidiaries are included in Item 8 of Part II:  

              Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. 

              Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting. 

              Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

              Consolidated
Statements of Earnings for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006, 2005,
and 2004. 

              Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of October 31, 2006 and 2005. 

              Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006,
2005, and 2004. 

              Consolidated
Statements of Stockholders  Equity for the fiscal years ended October 31,
2006, 2005, and 2004. 

              Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements. 

   (a) 2.   List
of Financial Statement Schedules     

  The following financial statement schedule of The Toro
Company and its subsidiaries is included herein:  

              Schedule II   Valuation
and Qualifying Accounts 

  All other schedules are omitted because the required
information is inapplicable or the information is presented in the consolidated
financial statements or related notes.  

    (a ) 3.   List of
Exhibits     

  The following exhibits are
incorporated herein by reference or are filed or furnished with this report as
indicated below:  

Exhibit Number 

Description   

3(i) and 4(a)     The
Toro Company Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i)(a) and 4(a) to
Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 15, 2005,
Commission File No. 1-8649). 

    3(ii) and 4(b)       Bylaws of The Toro
Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to Registrant s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated November 30, 2005, Commission File
No. 1-8649). 

    4(c)      Specimen form of The Toro Company Common
Stock certificate. 

    4(d)      Rights Agreement dated as of May 20,
1998, between Registrant and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association relating to
rights to purchase Series B Junior Participating Voting Preferred Stock,
as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to Registrant s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated May 27, 1998, Commission File
No. 1-8649). 

    4(e )     Certificate of Adjusted Purchase Price or
Number of Shares dated April 14, 2003 filed by Registrant with Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A., as Rights Agent, in connection with Rights Agreement dated as of
May 20, 1998 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant s
Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A dated
April 14, 2003, Commission File No. 1-8649). 

    4(f )     Certificate of Adjusted Purchase Price or
Number of Shares dated April 12, 2005 filed by Registrant with Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A., as Rights Agent, in connection with Rights Agreement dated as of
May 20, 1998 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant s
Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A dated
March 21, 2005, Commission File No. 1-8649). 

   4(g)     Indenture
dated as of January 31, 1997, between Registrant and First National Trust
Association, as Trustee, relating to the Registrant s 7.125% Notes due
June 15, 2007 and its 7.80% Debentures due June 15, 2027
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to Registrant s Current
Report on Form 8-K for June 24, 1997, Commission File
No. 1-8649). 

   10(a)     Form of
Employment Agreement in effect for executive officers of Registrant
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 30, 1999).* 

   10(b)     The
Toro Company Annual Management Incentive Plan II (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended April 29, 2005).* 

   10(c)     The
Toro Company 1993 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(f) to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended July 30, 1999).* 

   10(d)     The
Toro Company Performance Share Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 1 to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
February 16, 2006, Commission File No. 1-8649).* 

   10(e)     The
Toro Company 2000 Stock Option Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended May 5, 2006).* 

   10(f)     The
Toro Company Supplemental Benefit Plan (formerly The Toro Company Supplement
Management Retirement Plan) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(i) to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended July 30, 1999).* 

   10(g)     Amendment
to The Toro Company Supplemental Benefit Plan (formerly The Toro Company
Supplement Management Retirement Plan) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(c) to  

56     

Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended July 30, 2004).*  

   10(h)     Amendment
No. 2 to The Toro Company Supplemental Benefit Plan effective as of
October 16, 2006.* 

   10(i)     The
Toro Company Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly The Toro Company Supplemental
Retirement Plan) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to
Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
July 30, 1999).* 

   10(j)     Amendment
No. 1 to The Toro Company Deferred Compensation Plan effective as of
October 16, 2006.* 

   10(k)     Post-Retirement
Consulting and Noncompetition Agreement dated as of December 31, 2005
between The Toro Company and Kendrick B. Melrose (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 1 to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 31, 2005, Commission File No. 1-8649).* 

   10(l)     The
Toro Company Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10(k) to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2002).* 

   10(m)     Amendment
No. 1 to The Toro Company Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers
effective as of October 16, 2006.* 

   10(n)     The
Toro Company Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to Registrant s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 28, 2000).* 

   10(o)     Amendment
No. 1 to The Toro Company Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
Directors effective as of October 16, 2006.* 

   10(p)     The
Toro Company 2000 Directors Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 2 to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
September 20, 2005, Commission File No. 1-8649).* 

   10(q)     Form  of
Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement between The Toro Company and its
Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to
Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 20,
2005, Commission File No. 1-8649).* 

   10(r)     Form of
Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement between The Toro Company and its Officers
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated December 2, 2004, Commission File No. 1-8649).* 

   10(s)     Form of
Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 1 to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
November 30, 2005, Commission File No. 1-8649).* 

   10(t)     Form of
Performance Share Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2
to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 30,
2005, Commission File No. 1-8649).* 

   10(u)     Indemnification
Agreement with the members of the Board of Directors.* 

   10(v)     Credit
Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004, among The Toro Company, Toro
Credit Company, Toro Manufacturing LLC, Exmark Manufacturing Company
Incorporated, and Certain Subsidiaries, as Borrowers, the Lenders from time to
time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line
Lender and Letter of Credit Issuer and Banc of America Securities LLC (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated September 8, 2004, Commission File No. 1-8649). 

   10(w)     Amendment
No. 1 to Credit Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004, among The
Toro Company, Toro Credit Company, Toro Manufacturing Company, Incorporated,
and Certain Subsidiaries, as Borrowers, the Lenders from time to time party
thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and
Letter of Credit Issuer. 

   10(x)     Asset
Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 8, 2005, by and among Editland
Limited, Toro Hayter (Guernsey) Limited, Hayter Limited, and The Toro Company
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Registrant s Current Report
on Form 8-K dated February 8, 2005, Commission File No. 1-8649). 

   12     Computation
of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

   21     Subsidiaries of
Registrant 

   23     Consent of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

   31(a)     Certification
Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) (Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002). 

   31(b)     Certification
Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) (Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002). 

   32     Certification
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

  *      Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(b). 

    (b )   Exhibits     

  See Item 15(a)(3) above.  

    (c )   Financial
Statement Schedules     

  See  Item
15(a)(2) above. 

57  

SCHEDULE II     

   THE TORO COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES     

   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts     

1       Provision. 

  2       Addition,
net due to acquisitions and divestitures. 

  3       Uncollectible
accounts charged off. 

1       Provision
consists of price protection, rebates, cooperative advertising, floor planning
costs, commissions, and other promotional program expenses. The expense of each
program is either classified as a reduction of net sales or as a component of
selling, general, and administrative expense. 

  2       Claims
paid. 

  3       Addition
due to acquisition. 

58  

SIGNATURES     

  Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

THE TORO COMPANY  

(Registrant)  

By   

/s/   Stephen P. Wolfe  

Dated: December 22,
  2006  

Stephen P. Wolfe  

Vice President Finance and 
  Chief Financial Officer  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.  

Signature 

Title   

Date   

/s/   Michael J. Hoffman  

Chairman of the Board, President and  

December 22, 2006  

Michael J. Hoffman  

Chief Executive Officer and Director 
  (principal executive officer)  

/s/   Stephen P. Wolfe  

Vice President Finance and  

December 22, 2006  

Stephen P. Wolfe  

Chief Financial Officer 
  (principal financial officer)  

/s/   Blake M. Grams  

Managing Director,
  Corporate Controller  

December 22, 2006  

Blake M. Grams  

(principal accounting officer)  

/s/   Ronald O. Baukol  

Director  

December 22, 2006  

Ronald O. Baukol  

/s/   Robert C.
  Buhrmaster  

Director  

December 22, 2006  

Robert C. Buhrmaster  

/s/   Winslow H.
  Buxton  

Director  

December 22, 2006  

Winslow H. Buxton  

/s/   Janet K. Cooper  

Director  

December 22, 2006  

Janet K. Cooper  

/s/   Gary L. Ellis  

Director  

December 22, 2006  

Gary L. Ellis  

/s/   Katherine J.
  Harless  

Director  

December 22, 2006  

Katherine J. Harless  

/s/   Robert H. Nassau  

Director  

December 22, 2006  

Robert H. Nassau  

/s/   Gregg W.
  Steinhafel  

Director  

December 22, 2006  

Gregg W. Steinhafel  

/s/   Christopher A.
  Twomey  

Director  

December 22, 2006  

Christopher A. Twomey  

59  

<EX-4.C>
 2
 a06-25975_3ex4dc.htm
 EX-4

EXHIBIT
4(c)   

  NUMBER  

  MM  

[FAMILY 
  GRAPHIC]  

COMMON STOCK  

THIS CERTIFICATE IS TRANSFERABLE  

IN NEW YORK, NY
  or  

in South Saint
  Paul, MN  

INCORPORATED
  UNDER THE LAWS  

SHARES  

OF THE STATE OF
  DELAWARE  

[SEASONS
  GRAPHIC]  

The Toro Company   

CUSIP 891092 10 8  

THIS CERTIFIES THAT  

SEE REVERSE FOR  

CERTAIN DEFINITIONS  

IS THE 
  REGISTERED 
  HOLDER OF  

FULLY PAID AND NON-ASSESSABLE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK PAR VALUE $1.00
EACH, OF  

  Certificate of
Stock  

   The Toro Company transferable on the books of the
Corporation by the holder hereof, in person or by duly authorized attorney,
upon surrender of this Certificate properly endorsed. This Certificate and the
shares represented hereby, are issued and shall be held subject to all of the
provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Corporation,
and all amendments thereto, to all of which the holder, by accepting this
Certificate, assents. This Certificate is not valid unless countersigned and
registered by the Transfer Agent and Registrar.   

   In Witness Whereof, the Corporation
has caused this Certificate to be signed in facsimile by its duly authorized
officers, and a facsimile of its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed.  

Dated:  

COUNTERSIGNED AND REGISTERED:  

/s/ Michael J. Hoffman  

WELLS
  FARGO BANK, N.A.   

SEAL  

PRESIDENT AND   

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

TRANSFER AGENT  

AND REGISTRAR  

BY  

/s/ L.M. Kaufman  

/s/ J. Lawrence
  McIntyre  

AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE  

VICE PRESIDENT AND  

SECRETARY  

THE TORO
COMPANY   

   THE SHARES ARE SUBJECT TO RIGHTS,
PREFERENCES AND RESTRICTIONS. A FULL STATEMENT OF THE RIGHTS, PREFERENCES AND
RESTRICTIONS GRANTED TO OR IMPOSED UPON THE SHARES OF ALL CLASSES OF SERIES,
AND A STATEMENT OF THE AUTHORITY VESTED BY THE CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION IN
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS UNDER SUBCHAPTER V, SECTION 151, OF THE DELAWARE GENERAL
CORPORATION LAW, TO FIX THE RIGHTS OF SERIES OF SHARES THEN UNALLOTTED WILL BE
FURNISHED TO ANY SHAREHOLDER WITHOUT CHARGE AND UPON REQUEST MADE TO THE OFFICE
OF THE SECRETARY OF THE COMPANY.   

  THE FOLLOWING ABBREVIATIONS, WHEN USED IN THE
INSCRIPTION ON THE FACE OF THIS CERTIFICATE, SHALL BE CONSTRUED AS THOUGH THEY
WERE WRITTEN OUT IN FULL ACCORDING TO APPLICABLE LAWS OR REGULATIONS:   

TEN COM  

as tenants in common  

TEN ENT  

as tenants by the entireties  

JT TEN  

as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not
  as tenants in common  

UNIF GIFT MIN ACT    

Custodian  

(Cust)  

(Minor)  

under Uniform
  Gifts to Minors Act  

(State)  

Additional
abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.  

  FOR VALUE RECEIVED                                                 
hereby sell, assign and transfer unto  

(PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL
  SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE) 

(PLEASE PRINT OR
TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS OF ASSIGNEE)  

  Common Shares represented by the within Certificate,
and do hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint  

  Attorney to transfer the said shares on the books of the within-named
Corporation.  

  Dated  

NOTICE:  

THE SIGNATURE TO THIS
  ASSIGNMENT MUST   

CORRESPOND WITH THE NAME AS WRITTEN UPON THE FACE OF
  THE CERTIFICATE IN EVERY PARTICULAR WITHOUT ALTERATION OR ENLARGEMENT OR ANY
  CHANGE WHATEVER.  

This
certificate also evidences and entitles the holder hereof to certain rights as
set forth in a Rights Agreement between The Toro Company and Norwest Bank of
Minnesota, N.A., as Rights Agent, dated as of May 20, 1998 (as amended from
time to time, the  Rights Agreement ), the terms of which are hereby
incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which is on file at the principal
executive offices of The Toro Company. Under certain circumstances, as set
forth in the Rights Agreement, such Rights will be evidenced by separate
certificates and will no longer be evidenced by this certificate. The Toro
Company will mail to the holder of this certificate a copy of the Rights
Agreement without charge after receipt of a written request therefor. Rights
issued to, or beneficially owned by, any Person who becomes an Acquiring Person
(as defined in the Rights Agreement) may become null and void.   

   Effective July 10, 2000, Norwest Bank Minnesota,
N.A. 
changed its name to Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.    

   Effective February 20, 2004, Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. 
changed its name to Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.    

</EX-4.C>

<EX-10.H>
 3
 a06-25975_3ex10dh.htm
 EX-10

Exhibit
10.h   

   AMENDMENT 
TO 
THE TORO COMPANY   

   SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT PLAN   

   (FORMERLY KNOWN AS   

   THE TORO COMPANY   

   SUPPLEMENTAL
MANAGEMENT RETIREMENT PLAN)   

  This Amendment is
made to The Toro Company Supplemental Management Retirement Plan (herein
renamed The Toro Company Supplemental Benefit Plan), as previously amended and
restated effective July 27, 1998 (the  Plan ). 
All defined terms shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  This Amendment is effective October 16, 2006,
unless otherwise stated herein.  In no
event will this Amendment apply to any amounts earned and vested as of December
31, 2004.  All provisions of the Plan not
amended by this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect.  

   1.                                           Section
3.3 shall be amended to read as follows:  

   3.3          Earnings
on Amounts Credited   

  (a)           Amounts
credited to a Participant s Article III account shall be credited with earnings
at a rate and in a manner authorized by the Committee from time to time;
provided that beginning January 1, 2007, and until changed by subsequent action
of the Committee, the earnings rate for all Participants (except as otherwise
provided in (b) below) shall be based on a Participant s selection from the
following funds:  

  American Century Large Company Value 
American Funds Growth Fund of America 
Artisan Mid Cap 
Fidelity Diversified International 
ICM Small Company 
JPMorgan Mid Cap Value 
JPMorgan Prime Money Market Fund 
STI Class Small Cap Growth 
Vanguard Total Bond Index 
Vanguard Institutional Index  

  Prior to a Change in Control the method for determining
the earnings rate may be changed at any time, at the discretion of the
Company.  After a Change in Control, the
Trustee shall have authority to change the method for determining the earnings
rate.  

  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, all current Participants
shall be given a one-time election, until October 31, 2006, to:  

(i)            Allocate all funds in all accounts,
past and future, so that the earnings rate is based on  

  (ii)                                     The
Toro Company Stable Return Fund Measure; or 

  (ii)                                     Allocate
all funds in all accounts, past and future, so that the earnings is based on
the rate of return from one or more of the funds provided for in (a) above. 

  If such a Participant does not make an election, the earnings rate
applicable to all of such Participant s accounts, past and future, shall be
based on the Stable Return Fund Measure.  

   2.                                           The
third sentence of Section 6.2, the third sentence, second paragraph, of
Section 6.4 and the third sentence of Section 6.5 shall be amended as
follows:  

  A Participant may change his or her election at any time up to one year
before the date of the Participant s retirement from the Company.  

   3.                                           A
new Section 6.9 shall be added as follows:  

   6.9          Limitation
on Election of Distribution Method   

  Effective January 1, 2008, a Participant may change his
or her election of distribution method only one time after making an initial
election with respect to distribution of any accounts under this Plan.  

   4.                                           A
new Section 7.5 shall be added as follows:  

   7.5          Section
409A   

  The Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of
the Code and any official regulations or other guidance issued thereunder, to
the extent Section 409A is applicable to the Plan.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan, the Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner
consistent with such intention, and shall be deemed to be amended (and any
deferrals and distributions thereunder shall be deemed to be modified) to the
extent the Company deems necessary to comply with Section 409A and any official
regulations or other guidance issued thereunder and to avoid (a) the
predistribution inclusion in income of amounts deferred under the Plan and
(b) the imposition of any additional tax or interest with respect thereto.  

   5.                                           Effective
November 30, 2006, the name of the Plan is changed to  The Toro Company
Supplemental Benefit Plan,  and all references to the Plan shall be modified
accordingly.  

*  *  *  

  The Company has caused
this Amendment to be executed on the date indicated below.  

THE TORO COMPANY  

Dated:  

12/19/2006  

By:  

/s/ J.
  Lawrence McIntyre  

Its:
  Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel  

</EX-10.H>

<EX-10.J>
 4
 a06-25975_3ex10dj.htm
 EX-10

Exhibit
10.j   

   AMENDMENT 
TO 
THE TORO COMPANY DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   

   (FORMERLY KNOWN AS   

   THE TORO COMPANY   

   SUPPLEMENTAL
RETIREMENT PLAN)   

  This Amendment is
made to The Toro Company Supplemental Retirement Plan (herein renamed The Toro
Company Deferred Compensation Plan), as previously amended and restated
effective July 27, 1998 (the  Plan ). 
All defined terms shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  This Amendment is effective as of January 1,
2005, unless otherwise indicated herein. 
In no event will this Amendment apply to any amounts earned and vested
as of December 31, 2004.  All provisions
of the Plan not amended by this Amendment shall remain in full force and
effect.  

   1.                                           Effective
October 16, 2006, Section 3.1 shall be amended to read as follows:  

   3.1          Deferral
Election   

  A Participant may elect to defer Compensation for a
calendar year by completing and submitting a deferral election on a form
provided by the Company.  Except as
provided in the following sentence, such election must be submitted to the
Director or the Assistant Corporate Secretary by December 31 to be effective
for the following year.  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, an election to defer incentive compensation under a Company
incentive compensation plan must be made on a fiscal year basis.  A Participant may elect to defer incentive
compensation by completing and submitting a deferral election by the last day
of the Company s fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the
services to which the incentive compensation relate are performed.  An election shall remain in effect until
revoked or revised by the Participant by a written election delivered to the
Director or the Assistant Corporate Secretary. 
An election shall take effect as of January 1 of the year following the
year in which it is received,   or as of the first day of the Company s
fiscal year following the fiscal year in which it is received.  

  A Participant shall not be eligible to defer
Compensation for any calendar year or   incentive compensation for any
fiscal year following the year in which he or she no longer satisfies the
eligibility requirements of this Plan, unless the Committee in its discretion
permits such a deferral.  

2.             Effective October 16, 2006, Section 4.1 shall be amended
to read as follows:   

   4.1          Earnings Rate   

  (a)           Amounts
held in an account maintained for a Participant shall be credited with earnings
(which may include losses in principal value) at a rate and in a manner
authorized by the Committee from time to time; provided that beginning January 1,
2007, and until changed by subsequent action of the Committee, the earnings
rate for all Participants (except as otherwise provided in (b) below) shall be
based on a Participant s selection from the following funds :   

  American Century
Large Company Value 
American Funds Growth Fund of America 
Artisan Mid Cap 
Fidelity Diversified International 
ICM Small Company 
JPMorgan Mid Cap Value 
JPMorgan Prime Money Market Fund 
STI Class Small Cap Growth 
Vanguard Total Bond Index 
Vanguard Institutional Index  

  Prior to a Change in Control, the method for
determining the earnings rate may be changed at any time, at the discretion of
the Committee.  After a Change in
Control, the Trustee shall have authority to change the method for determining
the earnings rate.  

  (b)           Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions in paragraph (a) above, all current Participants shall be given a
one-time election, until October 31, 2006, to:  

  (i)                                        Allocate
all funds in all accounts, past and future, so that the earnings rate is based
on The Toro Company Stable Return Fund Measure; or 

  (ii)                                     Allocate
all funds in all accounts, past and future, so that the earnings rate is based
on the rate of return from one or more of the funds provided for in (a) above. 

  If such a
Participant does not make an election, the earnings rate applicable to all of
such Participant s accounts, past and future, shall be based on the Stable
Return Fund Measure.  

   3.                                           Effective
October 16, 2006, the first paragraph of Section 5.2 shall be amended to read
as follows:  

  Except as provided in Sections 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, and 5.6
hereof, the amount of the Participant s deferred compensation account shall be
distributed on the Participant s retirement, resignation or termination from
employment with the Company, or on the disability or death of the Participant,
whichever occurs first.  Distributions
shall be made   

in accordance with the Participant s distribution election most
recently filed with the Director or Assistant Corporate Secretary; provided,
that any election filed  one year  or less before the date of the
Participant s retirement, resignation or termination of employment shall be
disregarded.  

   4.                                           Section
5.3 shall be amended to read as follows:  

   5.3          Early Distributions   

  A Participant may irrevocably elect to receive a
distribution of all or a portion of the Participant s account prior to
retirement, resignation or termination of employment with the Company by
submitting a proper form of distribution election to the Company; provided,
however, that such election shall be made not later than two years prior to the
Plan Year in which the early distribution is to be made and provided further
that the election is subject to approval by the Committee.  Distributions under this Section shall be
paid in a lump sum.  

   5.                                           Effective
October 16, 2006, a new Section 5.9 shall be added as follows:  

   5.9          Limitation
on Election of Distribution Method   

  Effective January 1, 2008, a Participant may change
his or her election only one time after making an initial election with respect
to distributions under this Plan.  

   6.             A new Section 6.5 shall be added as follows:   

   6.5          Section 409A   

  The Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of
the Code and any official regulations or other guidance issued thereunder, to
the extent Section 409A is applicable to the Plan.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan, the Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner
consistent with such intention, and shall be deemed to be amended (and any
deferrals and distributions thereunder shall be deemed to be modified) to the
extent the Company deems necessary to comply with Section 409A and any official
regulations or other guidance issued thereunder and to avoid (a) the
predistribution inclusion in income of amounts deferred under the Plan and
(b) the imposition of any additional tax or interest with respect thereto.  

   7.                                           Effective
October 16, 2006, the name of the Plan is changed to  The Toro Company Deferred
Compensation Plan,  and all references to the Plan shall be modified
accordingly.  

*  *  *  

  The Company has caused this
Amendment to be executed on the date indicated below.  

THE TORO COMPANY  

Dated:  

12/19/2006  

By:   

/s/ J. Lawrence McIntyre  

Its: Vice President, Secretary and
  General Counsel  

</EX-10.J>

<EX-10.M>
 5
 a06-25975_3ex10dm.htm
 EX-10

Exhibit
10.m   

   AMENDMENT 
TO 
THE TORO COMPANY   

   DEFERRED
COMPENSATION PLAN FOR OFFICERS   

  This Amendment is
made to The Toro Company Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers, as previously
amended and restated effective September 19, 2002 (the  Plan ).  All defined terms shall have the meanings set
forth in the Plan.  This Amendment is
effective January 1, 2005.  In no event
will this Amendment apply to any amounts earned and vested as of December 31,
2004.  All provisions of the Plan not
amended by this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect.  

   1.                  Section 5.2(c) shall
be amended to read as follows:  

  (c)                                      Change
in Election of Method of Payment .  An
election of a method of payment will apply to all benefits payable to or on
behalf of a Participant under the Plan, including amounts deferred in prior
years and subject to a prior election.  A
Participant may change the method of payment by electing another method
available under the Plan at any time up to one year before the date of the
Participant s retirement from the Company; provided, however, that effective
January 1, 2008, a Participant may change his or her election only one time
after making an initial election. 

   2.                  Section 5.3(a) shall be amended to read as follows:  

  (a)                                      Early
Distributions .  Notwithstanding Section
5.1, a Participant may irrevocably elect to receive a distribution of a portion
or all of the Participant s Performance Share Units Account, Retained Units
Account and the vested portion of the Matching Units Account prior to the
Participant s death, Disability or termination of employment provided that only
benefits credited to an Account for at least two years may be paid.  The election shall be made on a proper
Deferral Election form not later than two years prior to the year in which the
early distribution is to begin and is subject to approval by the Compensation
Committee. 

   3.                  A new Section 10.8
shall be added as follows:  

   10.8             Section 409A  

  The Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of
the Code and any official regulations or other guidance issued thereunder, to
the extent Section 409A is applicable to the Plan.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan, the Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner
consistent with such intention, and shall be deemed to be amended (and any
deferrals and distributions thereunder shall be deemed to be modified) to the
extent the Company deems necessary to comply with Section 409A and any official
regulations or other guidance issued thereunder and to avoid (a) the   

predistribution inclusion
in income of amounts deferred under the Plan and (b) the imposition of any
additional tax or interest with respect thereto.  

  *  *  *  

  The
Company has caused this Amendment to be executed on the date indicated below.  

THE TORO COMPANY  

Dated:  

12/19/2006  

By:   

/s/ J. Lawrence McIntyre  

Its: Vice President, Secretary and
  General Counsel  

</EX-10.M>

<EX-10.O>
 6
 a06-25975_3ex10do.htm
 EX-10

Exhibit 10.o   

   AMENDMENT 
TO 
THE TORO COMPANY   

   DEFERRED
COMPENSATION PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS   

  This Amendment is
made to The Toro Company Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors,
as previously amended and restated effective July 20, 2000 (the  Plan ).  All defined terms shall have the meanings set
forth in the Plan.  This Amendment is
effective October 16, 2006, unless otherwise stated herein. In no event will
this Amendment apply to any amounts earned and vested as of December 31,
2004.  All provisions of the Plan not
amended by this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect.  

   1.                                           Section
3.1(a) shall be amended to read as follows:  

  (a)               Cash Account.  

  (i)  A
Participant s Cash Account shall be credited with Directors Fees deferred
pursuant to a valid Deferral Election and shall be further credited with
earnings (which may include losses in principal value) at a rate and in a
manner authorized by the Committee from time to time; provided that beginning
January 1, 2007, and until changed by subsequent action of the Committee, the
earnings rate for all Participants (except as otherwise provided in (ii) below)
shall be based on a Participant s selection from the following funds :   

  American Century
Large Company Value 
American Funds Growth Fund of America 
Artisan Mid Cap 
Fidelity Diversified International 
ICM Small Company 
JPMorgan Mid Cap Value 
JPMorgan Prime Money Market Fund 
STI Class Small Cap Growth 
Vanguard Total Bond Index 
Vanguard Institutional Index  

  Prior to a Change in Control, the method for
determining the earnings rate may be changed at any time, at the discretion of
the Committee.  After a Change in
Control, the Trustee shall have authority to change the method for determining
the earnings rate.  

  (ii) 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions in paragraph (i) above, all
current Participants shall be given a one-time election, until October 31,
2006, to:  

  (A)                                 Allocate
all funds in all accounts, past and future, so that the earnings rate is based
on The Toro Company Stable Return Fund Measure; or 

(B)                                   Allocate
all funds in all accounts, past and future, so that the earnings rate is based
on the rate of return from one or more of the funds provided for in (a) above. 

  If such a Participant does not make an election, the earnings rate
applicable to all of such Participant s accounts, past and future, shall be
based on the Stable Return Fund Measure.  

   2.                                           Section
4.2(b) shall be amended to read as follows:  

  (b)              Subject
to the following sentence, an election may be changed to an allowable
alternative payment period by submitting a new election to the Committee, in a
form approved by the Committee, provided that an election submitted less than
one year before the distribution is to commence shall not be given effect.  Effective January 1, 2008, a Participant may
change his or her election only one time after making an initial election with
respect to distributions under this Plan. 
Subject to the foregoing, the most recent effective election received by
the Committee shall govern the payment. 
If a Participant does not make a valid election with respect to the
payment of benefits, then such benefits shall be payable in a single
distribution.  The single distribution
shall be made, or installment payments shall commence, on or around the 15th
day of January immediately after the calendar year in which the Participant
retires. 

   3.                  A new Section 6.5
shall be added as follows:  

   6.5               Section 409A  

  The Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of
the Code and any official regulations or other guidance issued thereunder, to
the extent Section 409A is applicable to the Plan.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan, the Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner
consistent with such intention, and shall be deemed to be amended (and any deferrals
and distributions thereunder shall be deemed to be modified) to the extent the
Company deems necessary to comply with Section 409A and any official
regulations or other guidance issued thereunder and to avoid (a) the
predistribution inclusion in income of amounts deferred under the Plan and
(b) the imposition of any additional tax or interest with respect thereto.  

  *  *  *  

  The Company has caused this Amendment to be executed
on the date indicated below.  

THE TORO COMPANY  

Dated:  

12/19/2006  

By:  

/s/ J. Lawrence McIntyre  

Its: Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel  

</EX-10.O>

<EX-10.U>
 7
 a06-25975_3ex10du.htm
 EX-10

Exhibit 10.u   

INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT   

AGREEMENT, effective as of
                        
between THE TORO COMPANY, a Delaware corporation ( Toro ), and
                                         
( Director ).  

WHEREAS, it is essential to Toro to retain and attract as directors the
most capable persons available;  

WHEREAS, Director is a member of the Board of Directors of Toro;  

WHEREAS, both Toro and Director recognize the increased risk of
litigation and other claims being asserted against directors of public
companies in today s environment;  

WHEREAS, basic protection against undue risk of personal liability of
Toro directors heretofore has been provided through insurance coverage
providing reasonable protection at reasonable cost, and Director has relied on
the availability of such coverage;  

WHEREAS, Toro s Certificate of Incorporation requires Toro to indemnify
and advance expenses to its directors to the full extent permitted by law, and
Director has been serving and continues to serve as a director of Toro in part
in reliance on such provisions;  

WHEREAS, in recognition of Director s need for substantial protection
against personal liability in order to enhance Director s continued service to
Toro in an effective manner,  and of
Director s reliance on the aforesaid provision in Toro s Certificate of
Incorporation, and in part to provide Director with specific contractual
assurance that the protection promised by such provision will be available to
Director (regardless of, among other things, any amendment to or revocation of
such provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, any change in the
composition of Toro s Board of Directors or the occurrence of any acquisition
transaction relating to Toro); and  

WHEREAS, Toro wishes to provide in this Agreement for the effective
indemnification of and the advancing of expenses to Director to the fullest
extent (whether partial or complete) permitted by law and as set forth in this
Agreement and, to the extent insurance is maintained, for the continued coverage
of Director under Toro s director and officer liability insurance policies;  

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of Director
continuing to serve Toro directly or, at its request, with another enterprise,
and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:  

1.                                            Certain
Definitions:   

(a)  Change in Control:  shall be deemed to have occurred if (i)
during any period of two consecutive calendar years, individuals who at the
beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of Toro and any new
director whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by
Toro s stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the
directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of
the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so
approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (ii) the
stockholders of Toro approve a merger or consolidation of Toro with any other
corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the
Voting Securities of  

Toro outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent
(either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into Voting Securities
of the surviving entity) at least 80% of the total voting power represented by
the Voting Securities of Toro or such surviving entity outstanding immediately
after such merger or consolidation, or the stockholders of Toro approve a plan
of complete liquidation of Toro or an agreement for the sale or disposition by
Toro of all or substantially all of Toro s assets; provided, however, that a
would-be Change in Control under Section 1(a)(ii) which is approved by a
majority of the directors on Toro s Board of Directors who were directors prior
thereto shall not be deemed a Change in Control.  

(b)  Claim:  any threatened, pending or completed action,
suit or proceeding, or any inquiry or investigation, whether conducted by Toro
or any other party, that Director in good faith believes might lead to the
institution of any such action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative, investigative or other.  

(c)  Expenses:  include attorneys  fees and all other costs,
expenses and obligations paid or incurred in connection with investigating,
defending, being a witness in or participating in (including on appeal), or
preparing to defend, be a witness in, or participate in, any Claim relating to
any Indemnifiable Event.  

(d)  Indemnifiable Event:  any event or occurrence related to the fact
that Director is or was a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of
Toro, or is or was serving at the request of Toro as a director, officer,
employee, trustee, agent or fiduciary of another corporation, partnership,
joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust or other enterprise, or did not do
anything in any such capacity.  

(e)  Potential Change in
Control:  shall be deemed to have
occurred if (i) Toro enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would
result in the occurrence of a Change in Control; (ii) any person or entity
(including Toro) publicly announces an intention to take, or to consider
taking, actions which if consummated would constitute a Change in Control;
(iii) any person or entity, other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding
securities under an employee benefit plan of Toro or any of its subsidiaries,
is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of
Toro representing 15% or more of the combined voting power of Toro s then
outstanding Voting Securities or (iv) the Board adopts a resolution to the
effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control has
occurred.  

(f)  Reviewing Party:  any appropriate person or body consisting of
a member or members of Toro s Board of Directors or any other person or body
appointed by the Board (including Special Independent Counsel) who is not a
party to the particular Claim for which Director is seeking
indemnification.  If there has not been a
Change in Control, the Reviewing Party shall be selected by Toro s Board of
Directors.  If there has been such a
Change in Control, the Reviewing Party shall be Special Independent Counsel.  

(g)  Special Independent
Counsel:  counsel selected by Director
and approved by Toro (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) and
who has not, unless waived by Toro and Director, otherwise performed services
for (i) Toro or Director within the last ten (10) years or (ii) any other party
to a proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term  Special
Independent Counsel  shall not include any person who under the applicable
standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a  

2     

conflict of interest in representing either Toro or Director in an
action to determine Director s rights under this Agreement.  

(h)  Voting Securities:  any securities of Toro which have the right
to vote generally in the election of directors.  

2.                                            Basic
Indemnification Arrangement.   

(a)  In the event Director was,
is or becomes a party to or witness or other participant in, or is threatened
to be made a party to or witness or other participant in, a Claim by reason of
(or arising in part out of) an Indemnifiable Event, Toro shall indemnify
Director to the fullest extent permitted by law as soon as practicable but in
any event not later than thirty days after written demand is presented to Toro,
against any and all Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid or
owing with respect to or in settlement of (including all interest, assessments
and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such
Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties or amounts) such Claim.  Director shall give Toro written notice of
all such Claims and the particulars thereof as soon as practicable; provided,
however, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the right of
Director to indemnity hereunder unless such failure has materially and
adversely affected the rights of Toro.  

(b)  If so requested by Director,
Toro shall advance (within ten business days of such request) any and all
Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid or owing with respect to
or in settlement of any Claim to Director (an  Expense Advance ).  

(c)  Notwithstanding anything in
this Agreement to the contrary,  (i)
prior to a Change in Control, Director shall not be entitled to indemnification
pursuant to this Agreement in connection with any Claim (other than a claim for
indemnification) initiated by Director against Toro or any director or officer
of Toro unless Toro has joined in or consented to the initiation of such Claim,
(ii) the obligations of Toro under Section 2(a) shall be subject to the
condition that the Reviewing Party shall not have determined in a writing
stating the reasons therefor that Director would not be permitted to be
indemnified under applicable law, and (iii) the obligation of Toro to make an
Expense Advance pursuant to Section 2(b) shall be subject to the condition
that, if, when and to the extent the Reviewing Party determines that Director
would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law, Toro shall be
entitled to be reimbursed by Director (who hereby agrees to reimburse Toro) for
all such amounts theretofore paid; provided, however, that if Director has
commenced legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to secure a
determination that Director should be indemnified under applicable law, any
determination made by the Reviewing Party that Director would not be permitted
to be indemnified under applicable law shall not be binding and Director shall
not be required to reimburse Toro for any Expense Advance until a final
judicial determination is made with respect thereto (as to which all rights of
appeal therefrom have been exhausted or lapsed).  

(d)  If the Reviewing Party
determines that Director would not be permitted to be indemnified in whole or
in part under applicable law (such determination to be made by the Reviewing
Party independent of any position of Toro on any aspect of the indemnification
including but not limited to the appropriateness of the amount of any
settlement), Director shall have the right to commence litigation in any court,
in the states of Delaware or Minnesota or the state(s) of Director s residence
or employment, having subject matter jurisdiction thereof, and in  

3     

which venue is proper, seeking an initial determination by the court or
challenging any such determination by the Reviewing Party or any aspect thereof
and Toro hereby consents to service of process and to appear in any such
proceeding.  Any determination by the
Reviewing Party otherwise shall be conclusive and binding on Toro and Director.  

(e)  Any Expenses incurred by
Director in cooperating with the Reviewing Party shall be borne by Toro (irrespective
of the determination as to Director s entitlement to indemnification pursuant
to Section 2(a) and Toro hereby indemnifies and agrees to hold Director
harmless therefrom.  

3.                                            Change in
Control.   

If a Change in Control occurs, then with respect to all matters
thereafter arising concerning the rights of Director to indemnity payments and
Expense Advances under this Agreement or any other agreement, or Toro s
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws now or hereafter in effect, relating to
Claims for Indemnifiable Events, Toro shall seek legal advice only from Special
Independent Counsel.  Such counsel, among
other things, shall render its written opinion to Toro and Director as to
whether and to what extent Director would be permitted to be indemnified under
applicable law.  Toro agrees to pay the
reasonable fees of the Special Independent Counsel referred to above and to
fully indemnify such counsel against any and all expenses (including attorneys 
fees), claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating to this
Agreement or its engagement pursuant hereto.  

4.                                            Establishment
of Trust   .  

(a)  Nature of Trust.  

In the event of a Potential Change in Control, Toro shall, upon written
request by Director, create a Trust for the benefit of Director and from time
to time, upon written request of Director, shall fund such Trust in an amount
sufficient to satisfy any and all Expenses reasonably anticipated at the time
of each such request to be incurred in connection with investigating, preparing
for and defending any Claim relating to an Indemnifiable Event, and any and all
judgments, fines, penalties and settlement amounts of any and all Claims
relating to an Indemnifiable Event from time to time actually paid or claimed
to be, reasonably anticipated or proposed to be paid.  

(b)  Deposits in Trust.  

The amount or amounts to be deposited in the Trust pursuant to the
foregoing funding obligation shall be determined by the Reviewing Party;
provided, however, that the total amount so deposited for all such Trusts in
existence at any one time shall not exceed 5% of Toro s total net worth, on a
consolidated basis, at the time the deposit is authorized.  Any such Trust may, at Toro s option, be
funded by the creation of a security interest in unencumbered assets of Toro.  

4     

(c)  Terms of Trust.  

The terms of the Trust shall provide that upon a Change in Control (i)
the Trust shall not be revoked or the principal thereof invaded, without the
written consent of Director, (ii) the Trustee shall advance, within ten business
days of a request by Director, any and all Expenses to Director (and Director
hereby agrees to reimburse the Trust upon the circumstances under which
Director would be required to reimburse Toro under Section 2(b) of this
Agreement), (iii) the Trust shall continue to be funded by Toro in accordance
with the funding obligation set forth above, (iv) the Trustee shall promptly
pay to Director all amounts which Director shall be entitled to, pursuant to
this Agreement or otherwise, and (v) all unexpended funds in such Trust shall
revert to Toro upon a final determination by the Reviewing Party or a court of
competent jurisdiction, as the case may be, that Director has been fully
indemnified under the terms of this Agreement. 
The Trustee shall be chosen by Director. 
Nothing in this Section 4 shall relieve Toro of any of its obligations
under this Agreement.  

5.                                            Indemnification
for Additional Expenses   .  

Toro shall indemnify Director against any and all expenses (including
attorneys  fees) and, if requested by Director, shall, within ten business days
of such request, advance such expenses to Director which are incurred by
Director in connection with any claim asserted against or action brought by
Director for (i) indemnification hereunder or advance payment of Expenses by
Toro under this Agreement (or any other agreement or Toro s Certificate of
Incorporation or Bylaws now or hereafter in effect) relating to Claims for
Indemnifiable Events and/or (ii) recovery under any director and officer
liability insurance policies maintained by Toro, regardless of whether Director
ultimately is determined to be entitled to such indemnification, advance
expense payment or insurance recovery, as the case may be.  

6.                                            Selection of
Counsel and Settlement Authority.   

(a)  If no Change in Control has
occurred, Toro shall have the right to participate at its own expense in any
Claim against Director with respect to an Indemnifiable Event and to assume the
defense thereof with counsel satisfactory to Director.  Director shall have the right to employ
separate counsel in any such Claim and the fees and expenses of such separate
counsel shall be borne by Director; provided, that, all fees and expenses of
such separate counsel shall be borne by Toro if:  (i) Toro shall have authorized the engagement
of such separate counsel, (ii) Toro shall have failed to employ any counsel to
represent Director in such matter, or (iii) such separate counsel shall have
reasonably advised Director that there may be a conflict of interest between
Director and Toro in the defense or investigation of such matter.  

(b)  If no Change in Control has
occurred, Director shall not independently negotiate settlement without first
giving the Reviewing Party and Toro twenty business days  notice.  Thereafter, Director may engage in such
negotiations and may settle the case unless the Reviewing Party and outside
counsel for Toro handling the case (in cases where outside counsel is used)
advise Director that they have investigated the Director s involvement in the
event and have determined that the matter is appropriate and legal for
indemnity and all judgments, expenses and costs will, if lawful, be paid by
Toro.  The Reviewing Party and such
counsel shall also give Director notice, at the time a determination is made,
of any later reversal stating the reasons  

5     

therefor of the prior determination of the Reviewing Party and such
counsel, after which notice Director may independently negotiate and settle the
case.  

(c)  If a Change in Control has
occurred, Director shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any Claim
against Director with respect to an Indemnifiable Event at the expense of Toro
and the right to independently negotiate settlement unless Special Independent
Counsel shall have reasonably advised Director that there is no conflict of
interest between Director and Toro in the defense or investigation of such
matter; in which case the provisions of Sections 6 (a) and 6 (b) shall be
controlling.  

(d)  In any case, Toro shall not
unreasonably withhold its consent to any proposed settlement.  

7.                                            Partial
Indemnity   .  

If Director is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to
indemnification by Toro for some or a portion of the Expenses, judgments,
fines, penalties and amounts paid with respect to settlement of a Claim but
not, however, for all of the total amount thereof, Toro shall nevertheless
indemnify Director for the portion thereof to which Director is entitled.  Moreover, notwithstanding any other provision
of this Agreement, to the extent that Director has been successful on the
merits or otherwise in defense of any or all Claims relating in whole or in
part to an Indemnifiable Event or in defense of any issue or matter therein,
including dismissal without prejudice, Director shall be indemnified against
all Expenses incurred in connection therewith. 
In connection with any determination by the Reviewing Party as to
whether Director is entitled to be indemnified hereunder, the burden of proof
shall be on Toro to establish that Director is not so entitled.  

8.                                            No
Presumption.   

For purposes of this Agreement, the termination of any claim, action,
suit or proceeding, by judgment, order, settlement (with or without court
approval) or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere, or its equivalent,
shall not create a presumption that Director did not meet any particular
standard of conduct or have any particular belief or that a court has
determined that indemnification is not permitted by applicable law.  The termination of a suit by settlement shall
be presumed to be a disposition favorable to Director and in the best interests
of Toro.  

9.                                            Non-Exclusivity.   

The rights of Director hereunder shall be in addition to, and not
exclusive of, any other rights Director may have or hereafter acquired under
Toro s Certificate of Incorporation, its Bylaws, the Delaware General
Corporation Law, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors, any other law
or agreement or otherwise.  To the extent
that a change in applicable law (whether by statute or judicial decision)
permits greater indemnification by agreement than would be afforded at the date
of this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties hereto that Director shall
enjoy by this Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by such change.  

6     

10.                                      Liability
Insurance.   

To the extent Toro maintains an insurance policy or policies providing
director and officer liability insurance, Director shall be covered by such
policy or policies, in accordance with its or their terms, to the maximum
extent of the coverage available for any Toro director or officer.  

11.                                      Period of
Limitations.   

No legal action shall be brought and no cause of action shall be
asserted by or on behalf of Toro or any affiliate of Toro against Director,
Director s spouse, heirs, executors or personal or legal representatives after
the expiration of two years from the date Director ceases (for any reason) to
serve in all of the capacities covered by this Agreement, and any claim or
cause of action of Toro or its affiliate shall be extinguished and deemed
released unless asserted by the timely filing of a legal action within such two-year
period; provided, however, that if any shorter period of limitations is
otherwise applicable to any such cause of action, such shorter period shall
govern.  

12.                                      Amendments.   

No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement, and no
waiver of any provision hereof, shall be binding unless executed in writing by
both of the parties hereto.  No waiver of
any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a
waiver of any other provisions hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such
waiver constitute a continuing waiver.  

13.                                      Subrogation.   

In the event of payment under this Agreement, Toro shall be subrogated
to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Director, who
shall execute all papers required and shall do everything that may be necessary
to enable Toro effectively to bring suit to enforce such rights.  

14.                                      No Duplication
of Payments.   

Toro shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment in
connection with any claim made against Director to the extent Director has
otherwise actually received payment (under any insurance policy, Toro s
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or otherwise) of the amounts otherwise
indemnifiable hereunder.  

15.                                      Binding
Effect.   

This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be
enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors (including
any direct or indirect successor by purchase, merger, consolidation or
otherwise to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of Toro),
assigns, spouses, heirs, and personal and legal representatives.  

7     

16.                                      Termination.   

This Agreement shall continue until and terminate upon the later
of:  (a) ten (10) years after the date
that Director shall have ceased to serve Toro in all capacities covered by this
Agreement; or (b) the final termination of all pending Claims with respect to
Indemnifiable Events and of any proceedings commenced by Director pursuant to
this Agreement or otherwise relating thereto.  

17.                                      Severability.   

The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable in the event that
any of the provisions hereof (including any provision within a single section,
paragraph or sentence) are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, and the remaining provisions shall
remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.  

18.                                      Notices.   

All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall
be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if (i) delivered by
hand and receipted for by the party to whom said notice or other communication
shall have been directed on the day on which it is so delivered, or (ii) mailed
by certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day
after the date on which it is so mailed, if to Director to his then current
address and if to Toro, to The Toro Company, 8111 Lyndale Avenue South,
Bloomington, Minnesota 55420, Attention: J. Lawrence McIntyre, Vice President,
Secretary and General Counsel, or to such other address as may have been
furnished to Director by Toro or to Toro by Director, as the case may be.  

19.                                      Governing Law.   

This Agreement shall be governed and construed and enforced in
accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts made
and to be performed in such state, without giving effect to the principles of
conflicts of laws.  

Executed as of this 

day of                      ,
           .  

THE TORO COMPANY   

By:  

SS No.  

8  

</EX-10.U>

<EX-12>
 8
 a06-25975_3ex12.htm
 EX-12

EXHIBIT
12   

   THE TORO COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   

   (Not
Covered by Independent Auditors  Report)   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 9
 a06-25975_3ex21.htm
 EX-21

EXHIBIT
21   

   THE TORO COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   Subsidiaries
of Registrant   

  The following are
significant subsidiaries of The Toro Company as of December 15, 2006.  

State or Other Jurisdiction   

Percentage of Voting   

Name   

of Incorporation   

Securities Owned   

Exmark Manufacturing Company
  Incorporated 

Nebraska  

100  

%  

Hayter Holdings Limited  

United Kingdom  

100  

%  

Hayter Limited 

United Kingdom  

100  

%  

Irritrol Systems
  Europe, S.r.L.  

Italy  

100  

%  

Irritrol Systems Europe
  Productions, S.r.L. 

Italy  

100  

%  

MTI Distributing, Inc.  

Minnesota  

100  

%  

Red Iron Insurance, Limited 

Bermuda  

100  

%  

Toro Australia Pty.
  Limited  

Australia  

100  

%  

Toro Australia Group Sales
  Pty. Ltd 

Australia  

100  

%  

Toro Briggs  
  Stratton LLC  

Wisconsin  

50  

%  

Toro Credit Company 

Minnesota  

100  

%  

Toro Europe BVBA  

Belgium  

100  

%  

Toro Factoring Company
  Limited 

Guernsey  

100  

%  

Toro Finance Company  

California  

100  

%  

Toro Finance Co. GmbH 

Switzerland  

100  

%  

Toro France  

France  

100  

%  

Toro Hayter LLP 

United Kingdom  

100  

%  

Toro Hayter (Guernsey)
  Limited  

Guernsey  

100  

%  

Toro LLC 

Delaware  

100  

%  

Toro Mexico Holdings,
  LLC  

Minnesota  

100  

%  

Toro International Company 

Minnesota  

100  

%  

Toro Manufacturing LLC  

Delaware  

100  

%  

Toro Purchasing Company 

Minnesota  

100  

%  

Toro R D Company  

Minnesota  

100  

%  

Toro Receivables Company 

Minnesota  

100  

%  

Toro Sales Company  

Minnesota  

100  

%  

Toro Warranty Company 

Minnesota  

100  

%  

Toro World Trade GmbH  

Switzerland  

100  

%  

Turf Professionals Equipment
  Company 

Minnesota  

100  

%  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 10
 a06-25975_3ex23.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit
23   

   Consent
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

  The Board of Directors 
The Toro Company:  

  We consent to
incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Nos. 333-03505,
333-44879, 333-36166, 333-47260, 333-57198, 333-89262, 333-135033, 333-119504, and
333-119506) on Form S-8 of The Toro Company of our reports dated December 22,
2006, relating to the consolidated balance sheets of The Toro Company and
subsidiaries as of October 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements
of earnings, cash flows, and changes in stockholders  equity and related
financial statement schedule for each of the years in the three year period
ended October 31, 2006, management s assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2006, and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of October 31,
2006, which reports are included in the annual report on Form 10-K of The Toro
Company.  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.A>
 11
 a06-25975_3ex31da.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit
31(a)   

   Certification
pursuant to 
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

  I,
Michael J. Hoffman, certify that:  

  1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K
of The Toro Company;  

  2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;  

  3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;  

  4.  The registrant s other
certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  

  a)                  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;  

  b)                 Designed such internal control over financial reporting,
or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under
our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
reporting purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

  c)                  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

  d)                 Disclosed in this report any change in
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and  

  5.  The registrant s other
certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):  

  a)                 All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

  b)                Any fraud, whether or
not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: December 22, 2006 

/s/ Michael J.
  Hoffman  

Michael J.
  Hoffman  

President and
  Chief Executive Officer  

(Principal Executive
  Officer)  

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 12
 a06-25975_3ex31db.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit 31(b)   

   Certification
pursuant to 
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

  I, Stephen P. Wolfe,
certify that:  

  1. I have reviewed this
annual report on Form 10-K of The Toro Company;  

  2. Based on my knowledge,
this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report;  

  3. Based on my knowledge,
the financial statements, and other financial information included in this
report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this report;  

  4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible
for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:  

  a)                  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;  

  b)                 Designed such internal control over financial reporting,
or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under
our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
reporting purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

  c)                  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

  d)                 Disclosed in this report any change in
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and  

  5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):  

  a)                 All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

  b)                Any fraud, whether or
not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: December 22, 2006 

/s/ Stephen P.
  Wolfe  

Stephen P. Wolfe  

Vice President
  Finance  

and Chief
  Financial Officer  

(Principal
  Financial Officer)  

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32>
 13
 a06-25975_3ex32.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit
32   

  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  

  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  

  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  

  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In connection with the Annual
Report of The Toro Company (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended October 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the  Report ), we, Michael J. Hoffman, President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, and Stephen P. Wolfe, Vice President Finance
and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, that to our knowledge:  

  (1)             The Report fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

  (2)             The information
contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Michael J. Hoffman 

Michael J. Hoffman  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

December 22, 2006  

/s/ Stephen P. Wolfe 

Stephen P. Wolfe  

Vice President Finance  

and Chief Financial Officer  

December 22, 2006  

This certification
accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

</EX-32>

