<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061214_10-K_edgar_data_50725_0001104659-06-081561_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2036226</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>211644</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1215898</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>55</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-081561.hdr.sgml : 20061214
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061214162830
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-081561
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061214
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GRIFFON CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000050725
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	METAL DOORS, SASH, FRAMES, MOLDING & TRIM [3442]
		IRS NUMBER:				111893410
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06620
		FILM NUMBER:		061277462

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 JERICHO QUADRANGLE
		CITY:			JERICHO
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			11753
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5169385544

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 JERICHO QUADRANGLE
		CITY:			JERICHO
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			11753

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	INSTRUMENT SYSTEMS CORP /DE/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 T2sD2Y9K4XngUtJA+/SZLWzfdLdAjvqsVpxcWxe1+eFvUZyLujrdX30GRdfCoEHF
 1W5xt68zfps8KYeBJL7YTQ==

 0001104659-06-081561.txt : 20061214

10-K
 1
 a06-25388_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

   x                                  ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 

   For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006   

   OR   

   o                                     TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 

   For the transition period from
                           
to   

   Commission File No. 1-06620   

   GRIFFON CORPORATION   

  (Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on 
  which registered   

Common Stock, $.25 par value  

New York Stock Exchange  

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  

   None   

  Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act.  

  Yes    o      No    x  

  Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes    o      No    x  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes    x      No    o  

  Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.   x  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check one):  

Large accelerated
  filer   x  

Accelerated filer    o  

Non-accelerated filer    o  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Act). Yes     o     No    x  

  State
the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by
non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity
was last sold, or the average bid and asked prices of common equity, as of the
last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter. As of March 31, 2006 approximately $713,000,000.  

  Indicate
the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common
stock, as of the latest practicable date. As of December 8, 2006 29,824,789.  

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:   

  Part III (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14).
Registrant s definitive proxy statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

PART I     

   Item 1.        Business    

   The Company     

  Griffon Corporation ( Griffon  or the  Company ) is a
diversified manufacturing company with operations in four business segments:
Garage Doors; Installation Services; Specialty Plastic Films; and Electronic
Information and Communication Systems. The company s Garage Doors segment
designs, manufactures and sells garage doors for use in the residential housing
and commercial building markets. The Installation Services segment sells,
installs and services garage doors, garage door openers, manufactured
fireplaces, floor coverings, cabinetry and a range of related building products
primarily for the new residential housing market. The company s Specialty
Plastic Films segment develops, produces and sells plastic films and film
laminates for use in infant diapers, adult incontinence products, feminine
hygiene products and disposable surgical and patient care products. The company s
Electronic Information and Communication Systems segment designs, manufactures,
sells and provides logistical support for communications, radar, information,
command and control systems and large-scale integrated circuits for defense and
commercial markets.  

  The company relies
upon both internal growth and strategic investments to develop its business.
Over the past five years, the company has invested significant amounts to
support growth. Equipment and plant expenditures in fiscal 2006 aggregated $42
million, approximately $22 million of which were for expansion of the Garage
Doors  segment manufacturing capacity and $11 million was for Specialty Plastic
Films. Over the past several years, the company constructed a manufacturing
facility near S o Paulo, Brazil to expand its South American specialty plastic
film operations. That facility began operations in 2006. The company has also
made strategic investments in each of its business segments to enhance its
market position and expand into new markets, including:  

             In
2005, the Specialty Plastics Films segment acquired for $82 million the minority
interest in its largest European operation and increased its investment in its
Brazilian operation. 

             In
2005, the Electronic Information and Communication Systems segment acquired the
Systems Engineering Group in Maryland to expand its capabilities for radar
systems analysis, radar systems engineering and tactical missile defense
studies and analysis. In addition, the segment also acquired its short range
radio product line from SAAB. 

  The company was
incorporated on May 18, 1959 under the laws of the State of New York. It
was reincorporated in Delaware in 1970 and its name was changed to Griffon
Corporation in 1995. The company makes available, free of charge through its
website at  www.griffoncorp.com , its annual report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. For information regarding
revenue, profit and total assets of each segment see Note 7 of  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.   

   Garage Doors     

  The company believes that its wholly-owned subsidiary,
Clopay Corporation, is the largest manufacturer and marketer of residential
garage doors and among the largest manufacturers of commercial sectional doors
in the United States. The company s building products are sold under Clopay    , Ideal Door    and Holmes    brand names through an extensive
distribution network throughout the United States. The company estimates that
the majority of Garage Doors  net sales are from sales of garage doors to the
home remodeling segment of the residential housing market, with the balance
from the new residential housing and commercial building markets. The segment
employs approximately 1,700  

1     

employees. Sales into the
home remodeling market are being driven by the continued aging of the housing
stock and the trend of improving home appearance.  

  According to industry
sources, the residential and commercial sectional garage door market for 2005
was estimated to be $2.2 billion. Over the past decade there have been several
key trends driving the garage door industry, including the shift from wood to
steel doors and the growth of the home center channel of distribution. The
company estimates that over 90% of the total garage door market today is steel
doors. Superior strength, reduced weight and low maintenance have favored the
steel door. Other product innovations during this period include insulated
double-sided steel doors, new springing systems, sophisticated window options,
and residential garage doors with improved safety features.  

   Products and
Services   

  The company manufactures a broad line of residential
sectional garage doors with a variety of options at varying prices. The company
offers garage doors made primarily from several materials, including steel and
wood. The company also sells related products such as garage door openers
manufactured by third parties.  

  The company also markets commercial sectional doors.
Commercial sectional doors are similar to residential garage doors, but are
designed to meet more demanding performance specifications.  

  Sales by Garage Doors have
provided approximately 32% of the company s consolidated revenue in 2006, 37%
in 2005 and 33% in 2004.  

   Sales and Marketing   

  The company distributes its building products through
a wide range of distribution channels including installing dealers, retailers
and wholesalers. The company owns and operates a national network of 48
distribution centers. The company s building products are sold to approximately
2,000 independent professional installing dealers and to major home center
retail chains, including The Home Depot, Inc., Menards, Inc. and Lowe s
Companies, Inc. The company maintains strong relationships with its
installing dealers and believes it is the largest supplier of residential
garage doors to the retail and professional installing channels.  

  Over the past decade, an increasing number of garage
doors have been sold through home center retail chains such as The Home Depot, Inc.
The company estimates that approximately 35% of its garage doors are sold
through the home center channel of distribution. These home centers sell garage
doors to the do-it-yourself consumer, the small residential and commercial
contractor, as well as installed residential doors and operators for the
rapidly growing do-it-for-me consumer segment. Distribution through the retail
channel requires different capabilities and skills than those traditionally
utilized by garage door manufacturers. Factors such as immediately available
inventory, national distribution, national installation services, point-of-sale
merchandising and special packaging are all important to the retailer.  

  The company is the
principal supplier of residential garage doors throughout the United States and
Canada to The Home Depot, Inc., with Clopay     brand doors being sold exclusively to this
customer in the retail channel of distribution. Sales of the Clopay    brand outside the retail channel of
distribution are not restricted. The segment s largest customers are The Home
Depot, Inc. and Menards, Inc. The loss of either of these customers
would have a material adverse effect on the company s business. The company
distributes its garage doors directly to customers from its manufacturing
facilities and through its network of 48 company-owned distribution centers
located throughout the United States and in Canada. These distribution centers
allow the company to maintain an inventory of garage doors near installing
dealers and provide quick-ship service to retail and professional dealer
customers. 

2     

Manufacturing and
Raw Materials   

  The company currently operates five garage door
manufacturing facilities, having added an additional facility in Troy, Ohio in
2006. A key aspect of Garage Doors  research and development efforts has been
the ability to continually improve and streamline its manufacturing processes. The
company s engineering and technological expertise, combined with its capital
investment in equipment, generally has enabled the company to efficiently
manufacture products in large volume and meet changing customer needs. The
company s facilities use proprietary manufacturing processes to produce the majority
of its products. Certain of the company s equipment and machinery are
internally modified to achieve its manufacturing objectives. These
manufacturing facilities produce a broad line of high quality garage doors for
distribution to professional installer, retail and wholesale channels.  

  The principal raw material
used in the company s manufacturing operations is galvanized steel, the price
of which increased significantly during 2005, was relatively stable during
fiscal 2006 and began to trend upwards toward the end of 2006. The company also
utilizes certain hardware components as well as wood and insulated foam. All of
these raw materials are generally available from a number of sources.  

   Research and
Development   

  The company operates a
technical development center where its research engineers work to design,
develop and implement new products and technologies and perform durability and
performance testing of new and existing products, materials and finishes. Also
at this facility, the company s process engineering team works to develop new
manufacturing processes and production techniques aimed at improving
manufacturing efficiencies.  

   Competition   

  The garage door industry is characterized by several
large national manufacturers and many smaller regional and local manufacturers.
The company competes on the basis of service, quality, price, brand awareness
and product design.  

  The company s brand names
are widely recognized in the building products industry. The company believes
that it has earned a reputation among installing dealers, retailers and
wholesalers for producing a broad range of high-quality doors. The company s
market position and brand recognition are key marketing tools for expanding its
customer base, leveraging its distribution network and increasing its market
share.  

   Installation
Services     

  The company has developed a substantial network of
specialty building products installation and service operations. Its network of
locations cover many of the key new single family home markets in the United States
and offer a variety of building products and services to the residential
construction and remodeling industries. The segment employs approximately 1,400
employees.  

  The company provides installed specialty building
products primarily to residential builders. Builders are increasingly acting as
developers and marketers, sub-contracting a substantial portion of the actual
construction of a home. Traditionally, the market for installation services has
been very fragmented, characterized by small operations offering a single type
of building product in a single market. In what has historically been an
undercapitalized, fragmented industry, the company has sufficient capital and
the scale to attract professional management, achieve operating economies, and serve
the needs of even the largest national builders.  

  Installation Services has
targeted geographic markets that have a sizeable population or significant
growth demographics. The markets served account for approximately 17% of all
new residential housing   

3     

permits
in the United States. Installation Services  multiple product offering is
primarily targeted at new construction, wherein products are generally consumed
at approximately the same time in the construction process. Products offered
can be selected and upgraded by the end-customer in the company s design
centers. The company believes that its multi-product offering provides
strategic marketing advantages over traditional, single product competitors,
and provides the company with operational efficiencies. The company seeks to
increase the cross-selling of its multiple products to its existing customers.
Additionally, the company plans further growth through the introduction of
additional installed building products. The replacement and remodeling markets
are additional markets for the company s products and professional installation
services.  

   Products and
Services   

  Installation Services sells and installs a variety of
building products:  

    Garage Doors and Openers     garage doors are distributed, professionally installed and serviced in
the new construction and replacement markets. Installation Services sources
most of its garage doors from the Garage Doors segment.  

    Fireplaces     manufactured wood and gas fireplaces and related products such as stone
or marble surrounds, wood mantels and gas logs are distributed, professionally
installed and serviced, primarily to the new construction market.  

    Flooring     flooring products distributed and installed to the new construction
market include carpeting, tile and stone, wood and vinyl.  

    Appliances     appliances distributed to the new construction market include
refrigerators, stoves, cooktops, ovens and dishwashers.  

    Kitchen and Bath Cabinets     cabinetry, with options in wood varieties and door styles, are offered
for distribution and installation to the new construction market.  

    Other     other products include
closet systems, window coverings and bath enclosures. Tile and stone
applications for shower and bath walls, counter tops and fireplace surrounds
are also offered.  

  The company is able to leverage the offering of these
products over a common customer base, providing efficiencies and convenience to
the customer. The company operates well-appointed product design centers that
facilitate selection of products by the consumer, enhancing customer service
and providing an environment conducive to up-selling into higher margin
products.  

  Sales by Installation
Services have provided approximately 21% of the company s consolidated revenue
in both 2006 and 2005 and 22% in 2004.  

   Competition   

  The installation services
industry remains fragmented, consisting primarily of smaller, single-market
companies which have limited financial resources. However, the company has
recently observed the emergence of several multi-market competitors in various
regions. The company competes on the basis of service, price and product line
diversity.  

   Specialty Plastic
Films     

  The company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary
Clopay Plastics Products Company, develops and produces specialty plastic films
and laminates for a variety of hygienic, health care and industrial uses in
domestic and certain international markets. Specialty Plastic Films  products
include thin gauge embossed and printed films, elastomeric films and laminates
of film and non-woven fabrics. These products are used   

4     

primarily as moisture
barriers in disposable infant diapers, adult incontinence products and feminine
hygiene products, as protective barriers in single-use surgical and industrial
gowns, drapes and equipment covers, and as packaging for hygienic products.
Specialty Plastic Films  products are sold through the company s direct sales
force primarily to multinational consumer and medical products companies. The
segment employs approximately 1,200 employees worldwide.  

  The segment s major customer is Procter  
Gamble, with whom the company enjoys a long and growing relationship. Specialty
Plastic Films supplies Procter   Gamble with a variety of products
used primarily for its infant diapers, both domestically and internationally,
and expects to continue to expand the relationship in the future.  

  The segment of the
specialty plastic films industry in which Clopay participates has been affected
by several key trends over the past five years. These trends include the
increased use of disposable products in developing countries and favorable
demographics, including increasing immigration, in the major global economies.
Other trends representing significant opportunities for manufacturers include
the continued demand for new advanced products such as cloth-like, breathable,
laminated, and printed products and the need of major customers for global
supply partners. Notwithstanding the positive trends affecting the industry,
design changes by Procter   Gamble for its infant diaper products have
resulted in a change in products produced by the company from laminates to
narrower and thinner gauged printed film. As a result, the volume of film
products sold by the segment for this customer has declined. The company
believes that its business development activities targeting major multinational
and regional producers of hygiene, healthcare and related products and its
investments in its technology development capability and capacity increases
will lead to additional sales of new and related products, minimizing the
impact of this reduction.  

   Products   

  Specialty Plastic Films manufactures a wide variety of
embossed and printed specialty films and laminates for the hygienic, healthcare
and other markets. Specialty Plastic Films  products are used as moisture
barriers for   disposable infant diapers, adult
incontinence and feminine hygiene products and as protective barriers in
surgical and industrial gowns and drapes, equipment covers, flexible packaging,
house wrap and other products. A specialty plastic film is a thin-gauge film
(typically 0.0005  to 0.003 ) that is manufactured from polymer resins and
engineered to provide certain performance characteristics. A laminate is the
combination of a plastic film and a non-woven fabric. These products are
produced using both cast and blown extrusion and laminating processes. High
speed, multi-color custom printing of films and customized embossing patterns
further differentiate the products. The company s specialty plastic film
products typically provide a unique combination of performance characteristics
that meet specific, proprietary customer needs. Examples of such
characteristics include strength, breathability, barrier properties, elastic
properties, processibility and aesthetic appeal.  

  Sales by Specialty Plastic
Films have provided approximately 23% of the company s consolidated revenue in
2006, 26% in 2005 and 30% in 2004.  

   Sales and Marketing   

  The segment sells its products primarily in the United
States and Europe with sales also in Canada, Central and South America and Asia
Pacific. The segment primarily utilizes an internal direct sales force,
organized by customer accounts. Senior management actively participates by
developing and maintaining close contacts with customers.  

  The segment s largest customer is Procter  
Gamble, which has accounted for a substantial portion of Specialty Plastic
Films  sales over the last five years. The loss of this customer would have a
material   

5     

adverse effect on the
company s business. Specialty plastic films also are sold to a diverse group of
other leading consumer, health care and industrial companies.  

  The company seeks to
expand its market presence for Specialty Plastic Films by capitalizing on its
technological and manufacturing expertise and on its relationships with major
international consumer products companies. Specifically, the company believes
that it can continue to increase its North American sales and expand
internationally through ongoing product development and enhancement and by
marketing its technologically advanced films and laminates and printed film for
use in all of its markets. The company believes that its operations in Germany
and Brazil provide a strong platform for additional sales growth in certain
international markets.  

   Research and
Development   

  The company believes it is an industry leader in the
research, design and development of specialty plastic films and laminate
products. The company operates a technical center where approximately 50 chemists,
scientists and engineers work independently and in strategic partnerships with
the company s customers to develop new technologies, products, processes and
product applications. Currently, the company is engaged in several joint
efforts with the research and development departments of its customers.  

  The company s research and
development efforts have resulted in many inventions covering embossing
patterns, improved processing methods, product formulations, product
applications and other proprietary technology. Products developed by the
company include microporous breathable films and cost-effective cloth-like
films and laminates. Microporous breathability provides for moisture vapor
transmission and airflow while maintaining barrier properties resulting in
improved comfort and skin care. Cloth-like films and laminates provide
consumers preferred aesthetics such as softness and visual appeal. The company
recently began commercialization of patented elastic laminates for its baby
diaper products. The company holds a number of patents for its current
specialty film and laminate products and related manufacturing processes. The
company believes its patents are a less significant factor in its success than
its proprietary know-how and the knowledge, ability and experience of its
employees.  

   International
Operations   

  The segment has two operations in Germany from which
it sells plastic films throughout Europe. One of its German operations,
Finotech, was structured as a joint venture with Corovin GmbH, a manufacturer
of non-woven fabrics headquartered in Germany that is a subsidiary of BBA Group
PLC, a publicly owned diversified U.K. manufacturer. In July 2005, the
company purchased the remaining 40% interest from BBA in a cash transaction.  

  In June 2002, the
company acquired 60% ownership in Isofilme Ltda., a manufacturer of plastic hygienic
and specialty films located in Sao Paulo, Brazil which operates under the name
Clopay do Brasil. In October 2004, the company acquired an additional 30%
of Isofilme. In October 2005, the company purchased the remaining 10%
interest. In 2005 and 2006, the company constructed and relocated to a new
facility near S o Paulo. The installation of new manufacturing capacity and
capabilities was completed in conjunction with the move. Clopay do Brasil
provides a platform to broaden participation in South American markets and
strengthen the company s position as a global supplier.  

   Manufacturing and
Raw Materials   

  The company manufactures its specialty plastic film
and laminate products on high-speed equipment designed to meet stringent
tolerances. The manufacturing process consists of melting a mixture of polymer
resins (primarily polyethylene) and additives, and forcing this mixture through
a computer controlled die and rollers to produce embossed films. In addition,
the lamination process involves extruding the melted   

6     

plastic films directly
onto a non-woven fabric and bonding these materials to form a laminate. The
company also manufactures multi-color printed films and laminates. Through
statistical process control methods, company personnel monitor and control the
entire production process.  

  This segment launched a significant capital expansion
program in fiscal 2003 to support new opportunities with its major customers
and to increase capacity throughout its operations. The product initiative
involving the production of high-quality, multi-color printing of films and
laminates for the baby diaper market in North America and Europe is complete. The
segment s most advanced production line went onstream in 2005, and a new line
in Brazil commenced production in 2006. In 2005 and 2006 the segment installed
North American and European capacity for the production of the latest
technology in elastomeric materials for its key customers. Capital spending for
Specialty Plastic Films was approximately $27 million in fiscal 2005 and $11
million in fiscal 2006. It is anticipated that spending in fiscal 2007 will
approach 2006 levels.  

  Plastic resins, such as
polyethylene and polypropylene, and non-woven fabrics are the basic raw
materials used in the manufacture of substantially all of Specialty Plastic
Films  products, the price of which has increased dramatically since early
2002. The near-term outlook is for stabilization of resin prices. The company
currently purchases its plastic resins in pellet form from several suppliers.
The purchases are made under supply agreements that do not specify fixed
pricing terms. The company s sources for raw materials are believed to be
adequate for its current and anticipated needs.  

   Competition   

  The market for the company s specialty plastic film
and laminate products is highly competitive. The company has a number of
competitors in the specialty plastic films and laminates market, some of which
are larger and have greater resources than the company. The company believes
that its technical expertise and product development capabilities enhance its
market position and customer relationships. The company competes primarily on
the basis of technical expertise, quality, service and price.  

  The company has developed
strong, long-term relationships with leading consumer and health care products
companies. The company believes that these relationships, combined with its
technological expertise, product development and production capabilities,
including global operations, have positioned it to meet changing customer
needs, which the company expects will drive growth. In addition, the company
believes its strong, long-term relationships provide it with increasing
opportunities to expand and enter new international markets.  

   Electronic
Information and Communication Systems     

  The company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
Telephonics Corporation, specializes in advanced electronic information and
communication systems for defense, aerospace, civil, industrial, and commercial
applications domestically and in certain international markets. The company
designs, manufactures, sells, and provides logistical support for aircraft
communication systems, radar, air traffic management, information and command
and control systems, identification friend or foe ( IFF ) equipment,
transportation communication systems and custom, mixed-signal, application
specific integrated circuits. The company is a leading supplier of airborne
maritime surveillance radar and aircraft intercommunication management systems,
the segment s two largest product lines. In addition to its traditional defense
products used predominantly by the United States Government, in recent years
the company has adapted its core technologies to products used in international
markets and has expanded its presence in both non-defense government and
commercial markets. In fiscal 2006, approximately 73% of the segment s sales
were to the United States defense industry, 24% to international customers and
3% to commercial customers. The segment employs approximately 1,200 employees.  

7  

The United States defense
electronics procurement budget is expected to grow along with the overall
defense budget. Growth in this budget area reflects the trend in recent years
for the United States  Department of Defense to opt for the installation of new
electronic systems and equipment in existing aircraft rather than develop new
weapons systems. Conflicts involving the country s military have also tended in
recent years to require deployment and significant coordination between air,
sea and ground forces, often in distant parts of the world, underscoring the
evolution and growing importance of electronic systems that provide
surveillance, tracking, communication and command and control. The company
believes that Telephonics  advanced systems and sub-systems are well positioned
to address the needs of an electronic battlefield with emphasis on the
generation and dissemination of timely data for use by highly mobile ground,
air and naval forces. The company anticipates that the need for such systems
will also increase in connection with the increasingly active role that the
military is playing in the war on terrorism, both at home and abroad.  

   Programs and
Products   

  The
table below lists some of the major programs the company currently participates
in:  

Customer   

Program   

Product   

The Boeing Company  

U.S.
  Air Force C-17A Cargo  Transport
  U.S. Air Force C-130 Hercules Air Transport Airborne Warning and
  Control System (AWACS) U.S. Navy F/A-18/E/F Fighter/Attack Aircraft  

Intercommunications 
  Management Systems  

AWACS  

Identification
  Friend or Foe System  

General Dynamics, Canada  

Maritime
  Helicopter Project  

Maritime
  Surveillance Radar  

BAE Systems  

U.K. NIMROD Royal
  Maritime Patrol Aircraft  

Intercommunications
  Systems Integration  

Northrop Grumman  

Joint-STARS
  Surveillance Aircraft  

Intercommunications
  Management Systems  

U.S. Coast Guard
  HU-25 Aircraft  

Maritime
  Surveillance Radar  

Lockheed Martin Corporation  

U.S. Navy MH-60S/MH-60R
  Helicopters U.S. Navy P-3 Aircraft  

Intercommunications
  Management Systems  

U.S. Navy MH-60R
  Helicopter U.S. Coast Guard CN 235 Maritime Patrol Aircraft  

Maritime
  Surveillance Radar and Identification Friend or Foe System  

MacDonald Dettwiler  

Canadian Forces 
  CP-140 Aurora Aircraft Modernization Program  

Maritime
  Surveillance Radar and Identification Friend or Foe System  

Sikorsky Aircraft Company  

S-70B
  Maritime Surveillance Helicopter  

Maritime
  Surveillance Radar  

UH-60M
  Blackhawk Helicopter Upgrade Program  

Management
  Systems  

Syracuse Research
  Corporation  

U.S. Army Warlock Duke  

Counter IED Devices  

8     

The company, under a contract with Syracuse Research
Corporation manufactures counter IED devices to support the Warlock Duke
program. The program entailed the achievement of high rate production, in an
accelerated timetable, of equipment designed to defeat the roadside bomb
threats that our armed forces face throughout the world.  

  The company specializes in communication systems and
products and is a leading manufacturer of aircraft intercommunication systems
with products in digital and analog communication management, digital audio
distribution and control, and communication systems integration. Additionally,
the company also manufactures a variety of wireless products for use in ground
and airborne operations. The company s communication products are on platforms
such as the U.S. Navy s MH-60R multi-mission and MH-60S utility
helicopters, the United Kingdom s NIMROD surveillance aircraft, the U.S. Air
Force C-17A cargo transport, the U.S. Air Force s Joint Surveillance and
Target Acquisition Radar System (Joint-STARS) aircraft, and AWACS aircraft.  

  The company s command and control systems include
airborne maritime surveillance radar, ground surveillance radar, weather and
search radar systems, air traffic management systems and tactical instrument
landing systems. The company provides expertise and equipment for detecting and
tracking targets in a maritime environment and flight path management systems
for air traffic control applications. Its maritime radar systems, which are
used in more than 20 countries, are fitted aboard helicopters, fixed-wing
aircraft, and aerostats for use at sea. The company s radar products will be
utilized on the U.S. Coast Guard s helicopters, fixed wing aircraft and
unmanned aerial vehicles for its Deepwater upgrade program. The company also
increased its market penetration through an award to develop, manufacture and
deliver radar with imaging in both maritime and overland environments for the
Canadian Forces  CP-140 Aurora aircraft program. The company s electronic
systems include IFF systems used by the U.S. Air Force and NATO on the AWACS
aircraft and for the U.S. Navy s Multi-Mission Maritime Aircraft Contract.  

  Telephonics is generally a first tier supplier to
prime contractors in the defense industry such as Boeing, Lockheed Martin,
Northrop Grumman and Sikorsky Aircraft. With the significant contraction and
consolidation that has occurred in the U.S. and international defense industry,
major prime contractors worldwide are relying on smaller, key suppliers to
provide advances in technology and greater efficiencies to reduce the cost of
major systems and platforms. The company believes that this situation creates
an opportunity for established, first tier suppliers to capitalize on existing
relationships with major prime contractors and play a larger role in the
foreseeable future.  

  The company also manufactures custom and standard,
mixed-signal, application-specific large-scale integrated circuits for
customers in the security, military telecommunications and multi-media
industries.  

  Sales by Electronic
Information and Communication Systems have provided approximately 24% of the
company s consolidated revenue in 2006, 16% in 2005 and 16% in 2004.  

   Backlog   

  The funded backlog for
Electronic Information and Communication Systems was approximately $373 million
at September 30, 2006, compared to $217 million at September 30,
2005. The growth in backlog is attributable to the Syracuse Research
Corporation contract and the MH-60R program. Approximately 76% of the
current backlog is expected to be filled during fiscal 2007.  

   Sales and Marketing   

  Telephonics has approximately 25 technical business
development personnel who act as the focal point for its marketing activities
and approximately 40 sales representatives who introduce its products and
systems to customers worldwide.  

9     

The company participates in a range of long-term
defense and non-military government programs, both domestically and
internationally. The company has developed a base of installed products in
these programs that generate significant recurring revenue and retrofit, spare
parts and customer support sales. Due to the inherent complexity of defense
electronics, the company believes that its incumbent status on major platforms
gives it a competitive advantage in the selection process for the upgrades and
enhancements that have characterized defense electronics procurement in recent
years. Furthermore, the company believes that with programs such as the U.S.
Navy s MH-60R helicopter transitioning to full scale production
concurrently with other radar and intercommunications systems production
programs under way, the company will have a competitive price advantage on bids
for new business.  

  In recent years, the
segment has also significantly expanded its customer base in international
markets. The company s international projects include a contract with BAE
Systems as part of the United Kingdom s upgrade of the NIMROD surveillance
aircraft and a number of contracts with the Civil Aviation Authority of China
for air traffic management systems for Mainland China.  

   Research and
Development   

  This segment regularly updates its core technologies
through internally funded research and development. The selection of these
R D projects is based on available opportunities in the marketplace, as
well as input from the company s customers. Recent internally funded research
and development has resulted in the development of an airborne imaging maritime
surveillance radar system with advanced technology and greater functionality,
as well as an all-digital, totally secure intercommunications management
system.  

  The company believes that it is a technological leader
in its core markets and intends to pursue new growth opportunities by
leveraging its systems design and engineering capabilities and incumbent
position on key platforms. For example, during 2000 Telephonics was awarded a
contract for the development of the next generation integrated radio management
system for the U.S. Air Force s C-17A air transport. This program
transitioned from development to production in fiscal 2003. Since 2003, the
company has developed the next generation integrated radio management system
for the C-17A Aircraft and will be retrofitting all of the previously
installed systems going forward. The company also expects substantial sales
growth as it transitions to the production phase for the US Navy s MH-60R
helicopter program.  

  In addition to Telephonics  products for defense
programs, the company has also applied its technology to produce products for
commercial applications such as airborne weather and search radar air traffic
control systems. The company believes that its reputation for innovative
product design and engineering capabilities, especially in the areas of voice
and data communications, radio frequency design, digital signal processing,
networking systems, inverse synthetic aperture radar and analog, digital and
mixed-signal integrated circuits, has enhanced its ability to secure, retain
and expand its participation in defense programs and commercial undertakings.
The company is capable of meeting a full range of customer requirements
including system requirements definition, product design and development,
manufacturing and test, integration and installation, and logistical support.
As a result, the company has been successful in developing a number of
relationships as an important strategic partner and first tier supplier to
various prime contractors.  

  Telephonics  objective is
to anticipate the needs of its core markets and to invest in research and
development in an effort to provide solutions well in advance of its
competitors. In an effort to ensure customer satisfaction and loyalty,
Telephonics often designs its products to exceed customers  minimum
specifications, providing its customers with greater performance and
flexibility. The company believes that these practices engender increased
coordination and communication with its customers at the earliest stages of new
program development, thereby increasing the likelihood that Telephonics 
products will be selected and integrated as part of a total system solution.  

10     

Competition   

  The Electronic Information
and Communication Systems segment competes with major manufacturers of
electronic information and communication systems that have greater financial
resources than the company, and with several smaller manufacturers of similar
products. The company competes on the basis of technology, design, quality,
price and program performance.  

   Employees     

  On a consolidated basis,
the company has approximately 5,700 employees located throughout the United
States, in Europe and Brazil. Approximately 150 of its employees are covered by
a collective bargaining agreement, primarily with an affiliate of the AFL-CIO.
The company believes its relationships with its employees are satisfactory.  

   Regulation     

  The company s operations
are subject to various environmental, health and employee safety laws. The
company has spent money and management has spent time complying with
environmental, health and worker safety laws which apply to its operations and
facilities and the company expects to continue to do so. Compliance with
environmental laws has not historically materially affected the company s
capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. The company does not
expect compliance with environmental laws to have a material effect on the
company in the future. The company believes that it generally complies with
applicable environmental, health and worker safety laws and governmental
regulations. Nevertheless, the company cannot guarantee that in the future it
will not incur additional costs for compliance or that those costs will not be
material.  

   Seasonality     

  Historically the company s
revenues and earnings are lowest in its second fiscal quarter and highest in
its fourth fiscal quarter.  

   Financial
Information About Geographic Areas     

  Revenues,
based on the customers  locations, and property, plant and equipment attributed
to the United Sates and all other countries are as follows:  

11     

Research and
Development     

  Research and development
costs not recoverable under contractual arrangements are charged to expense as
incurred. Research and development costs for all business segments were
approximately $15,300,000 in 2006, $16,100,000 in 2005 and $17,400,000 in 2004.  

   Executive Officers of the Registrant     

Name   

Age   

Served as 
  Officer Since   

Positions and Offices   

Harvey R. Blau  

71  

1983  

Chairman
  of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

Eric Edelstein  

57  

2005  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

Patrick L. Alesia  

58  

1979  

Vice President,
  Secretary and Treasurer  

Item 1A.                    Risk
Factors   

  You should carefully
consider the risks described below, as well as the other information appearing
in this document. If any of the following risks actually occur, they could
materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating
results or prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the
only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not
presently know or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our
business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.  

   We operate in
highly competitive industries and may be unable to compete effectively with
other companies.   

  We face intensive
competition in each of our markets. We have a number of competitors, some of
which are larger and have greater resources than us. We compete primarily on
the basis of competitive prices, technical expertise, product differentiation,
and quality of products and services. In addition, there can be no assurance that
we will not encounter increased competition in the future, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business.  

   If we were to lose
any of our largest customers, our results of operations could be significantly
harmed.   

  A small number of customers
has accounted for a substantial portion of our historical net sales, and we
expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a
substantial portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. Approximately
14% of our total sales and 59% of our specialty plastic films sales for the
fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 were made to Procter  
Gamble, which is our largest customer in the specialty plastic films segment. The
Home Depot, Inc. and Menards Inc. are significant customers of our
garage doors segment and Syracuse Research Corporation, Lockheed Martin
Corporation and the Boeing Company are significant customers of our electronic
information and communication systems segment. Our future operating results
will continue to substantially depend on the success of our largest customers
and our relationships with them. Orders from these customers are subject to
fluctuation, and may be reduced materially. Any reduction or delay in sales of
our products to one or more of these customers could significantly harm our
business. Our operating results will also depend on our ability to successfully
develop relationships with additional key customers. We cannot assure you that
we will retain our largest customers or that we will be able to recruit additional
key customers.  

   Increases in raw
material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating
results.   

  We purchase raw materials
from various suppliers. While all our raw materials are available from numerous
sources, commodity raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price. Because
raw materials in the aggregate constitute significant components of our cost of
goods sold, such fluctuations could have a   

12     

material
adverse effect on our results of operations. In recent years, there have been
price increases in plastic resins and steel, which are the basic raw materials
used in the manufacture of our specialty plastic films and garage door
products, respectively. Our ability to pass on to our customers increases in
raw material prices is limited due to customer supply arrangements and
competitive pricing pressure, and there is generally a time lag between our
increased costs and our implementation of related price increases. We have not
always been able to increase our prices to fully recoup our increased costs. In
addition, sharp increases in raw material prices are more difficult to pass
through to customers in a short period of time and may negatively affect our
short-term financial performance.  

   Trends in the
housing sector and in general economic conditions will directly impact our
business.   

  Our businesses in the
garage door and the installation industries are influenced by market conditions
for new home construction and renovation of existing homes. For the year ended September 30,
2006, approximately 53% of our total net sales were related to new home
construction and renovation of existing homes. Trends in the housing sector
directly affect our financial performance. Accordingly, the strength of the
U.S. economy, the age of existing home stock, job growth, interest rates,
consumer confidence and the availability of consumer credit, as well as
demographic factors such as the migration into the United States and migration
of the population within the United States have an effect on our business. The
historically low interest rates in recent periods have generated strong growth
in the housing sector. If interest rates increase or there are adverse changes
in any of the other factors affecting trends in the housing sector, activities
in new housing construction and renovation of existing homes may decrease. Such
a decrease may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating
results or financial condition and prospects.  

   Trends in the baby
diaper market will directly impact our business.   

  Recent trends have been
for baby diaper manufacturers to specify thinner plastic films for use in their
products. This trend has generally resulted in Specialty Plastic Films
incurring costs to redesign and reengineer its own products to accommodate the
specification change and has also had the effect of reducing revenue due to
lower plastic film content in products sold. Such decreases, or the failure of
the company to meet changing customer specifications, could result in a decline
in revenue and profits that may have a material adverse effect on our business,
operating results, financial condition and prospects.  

   Our electronic information and communication systems
business depends heavily upon government contracts.   

  Our
electronic information and communication systems business sells products to the
U.S. government primarily as a subcontractor. We are generally a first tier
supplier to prime contractors in the defense industry such as Boeing, Lockheed
Martin and Northrop Grumman. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006,
U.S. government contracts and subcontracts accounted for approximately 17% of
our sales. Our contracts involving the U.S. government may include various
risks, including:  

             Termination
by the government; 

             Reduction
or modification in the event of changes in the government s requirements or
budgetary constraints; 

             Increased
or unexpected costs causing losses or reduced profits under contracts where our
prices are fixed, or unallowable costs under contracts where the government reimburses
us for costs and pays an additional premium; 

             The
failure or inability of the prime contractor to perform its contract in
circumstances where we are a subcontractor; 

13  

The
failure of the company to observe and comply with government business practice
and procurement regulations such that the company could be suspended or barred
from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts; 

             The
failure of the government to exercise options for additional work provided for
in the contracts; and 

             The
government s right in certain circumstances to freely use technology developed
under these contracts. 

  The programs in which we
participate may extend for several years, but are normally funded on an annual
basis. The U.S. government may not continue to fund programs to which our
development projects apply. Even if funding is continued, we may fail to
compete successfully to obtain funding pursuant to such programs.  

   There can be no assurance
that the capital expansion program that we have implemented in the specialty
plastic films segment will generate the revenue and profits anticipated.   

  Our specialty plastic
films segment implemented a capital expansion program over the past several
years to support new opportunities with its major customers and to increase
capacity throughout its operations. The implementation and commercialization of
new products and the introduction and expansion of sales to new customers
resulted in startup costs and production inefficiencies that negatively
impacted operating results in fiscal 2006. Although management expects to
address these issues in 2007, there can be no assurance that it will be
successful in fully eliminating such inefficiencies and costs or that such
items will not recur in future periods.  

   We
must continually improve existing products, design and sell new products and
manage the costs of research and development in order to compete effectively.   

  The markets for our
specialty plastic films and electronic information and communication systems
businesses are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry
standards and continuous improvements in products. Due to constant changes in
these markets, our future success depends on our ability to develop new
technologies, products, processes and product applications.  

  We develop our
technologies and products through internally funded research and development
and strategic partnerships with our customers. Because it is generally not
possible to predict the amount of time required and the costs involved in
achieving certain research and development objectives, actual development costs
may exceed budgeted amounts and estimated product development schedules may be
extended. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be
materially and adversely affected if:  

             we
are unable to improve our existing products on a timely basis; 

             our
new products are not introduced on a timely basis or do not achieve sufficient
market penetration; 

             we
incur budget overruns or delays in our research and development efforts; or 

             our
new products experience reliability or quality problems. 

   The loss of certain key officers or employees could
adversely affect us.   

  The success of our business
is materially dependent upon the continued services of certain of our key
officers and employees. The loss of such key personnel could have a material
adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.  

14     

Our businesses are subject to seasonal variations.   

  Historically, our revenues
and earnings are lowest in the second fiscal quarter ending on March 31
and highest in the fourth fiscal quarter ending September 30. The
quarterly operating results fluctuation is mainly due to the seasonality in our
garage door and installation businesses. The primary revenues of our garage
door and installation businesses are driven by residential renovation and
construction. Cold weather in the winter months usually reduces the level of
building and remodeling activity in both the home improvement and new
construction markets and, accordingly, has an adverse effect on the demand for
our garage door products and installation services. Seasonal fluctuation in the
demand for our garage door products and installation services could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations. Because a high percentage
of our manufacturing overhead and operating expenses is relatively fixed
throughout the year, operating margins have historically been lower in quarters
with lower sales. As a result, our operating results and stock price could be
volatile, particularly on a quarterly basis.  

   We
are exposed to a variety of risks relating to our international sales and
operations, including foreign economic and political conditions and
fluctuations in exchange rates.   

  We own properties and
conduct operations in Europe and South America through our foreign subsidiaries.
Sales of our products through our foreign subsidiaries accounted for
approximately 14% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended September 30,
2006. These foreign sales could be adversely affected by changes in various
foreign countries  political and economic conditions, trade protection
measures, differing intellectual property rights and changes in regulatory
requirements that restrict the sales of our products or increase our costs. Currency
fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in the foreign
countries or regions in which we do business may also have an impact on our
future operating results.  

   We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights.   

  We rely on a combination
of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality and
non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to protect our
proprietary rights. Such measures provide only limited protection. We cannot
assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate
or that competitors will not independently develop similar technologies.  

   We are exposed to product liability claims.   

  We may be the subject of
product liability claims in the future relating to the performance of our
products or the performance of a product in which any of our products was a
component part. There can be no assurance that product liability claims will
not be brought against us in the future, either by an injured customer of an
end product manufacturer who used one of our products as a component or by a
direct purchaser from us. In addition, no assurance can be given that
indemnification from our customers or coverage under insurance policies will be
adequate to cover future product liability claims against us. Moreover,
liability insurance is expensive, difficult to maintain and may be unobtainable
in the future on acceptable terms. The amount and scope of any insurance
coverage may be inadequate if a product liability claim is successfully
asserted against us. Furthermore, if any significant claims are made against
us, our business may be adversely affected by any resulting negative publicity.  

   We
have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims and liabilities under
environmental laws and regulations.   

  Our operations and assets
are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and
regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the
handling and disposal of wastes, including solid and hazardous wastes, or
otherwise relating to health, safety and protection of the environment. We do
not expect to make any expenditures with respect to ongoing compliance with or
remediation under these environmental laws and regulations that would have a
material adverse effect on   

15     

our
business, operating results or financial condition. However, the applicable
requirements under the law may change at any time.  

  We can also incur environmental
liabilities in respect of sites that we no longer own or operate, as well as
third party sites to which we sent hazardous materials in the past. We cannot
assure you that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in
connection with such claims. A site in Peekskill in the town of Cortlandt, New
York was previously owned and used by two of our subsidiaries. The Peekskill
site was sold in December 1982. In 1984, we were advised by the New York
State Department of Environmental Conservation that random sampling of the
Peekskill site indicated concentrations of solvents and other chemicals common
to the operations of our subsidiary that used the site. In May 1996, our
subsidiary that formerly owned the site entered into a consent order with the
DEC to investigate and remediate environmental conditions at this site,
including the performance of a remedial investigation and feasibility study. After
completing the initial remedial investigation, such subsidiary has now
performed a supplemental remedial investigation under the consent order. Subsequently,
an addendum to the supplemental remediation investigation was negotiated and
conducted and a further report submitted to the DEC. We believe, based on facts
presently known to us, that the outcome of this matter will not have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot
assure you, however, that the discovery of presently unknown environmental
conditions, changes in environmental laws and regulations or other
unanticipated events will not give rise to claims that may involve material
expenditures or liabilities.  

   Changes
in income tax laws and regulations or exposure to additional income tax
liabilities could adversely affect profitability.   

  We are subject to income
taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and
international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among
various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected
by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax
rates, changes in any valuation allowance for deferred tax assets or the
amendment or enactment of tax laws. The amount of income taxes paid is subject
to ongoing audits by U.S. Federal, state and local tax authorities and also by
foreign authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from
recorded income tax liabilities, future financial results may include
unfavorable adjustments to our income tax expense.  

   Our
compliance with restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements may limit our
ability to take corporate actions and harm our business.   

  Our debt agreements
contain a number of covenants that restrict our ability to incur additional
debt and our ability to pay dividends. Under our revolving credit agreement we
are also required to comply with specific financial ratios and tests. We may
not be able to comply in the future with these covenants or restrictions as a
result of events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic, financial and
industry conditions. If we default in maintaining compliance with the covenants
and restrictions in our debt agreements, our lenders could declare all of the
principal and interest amounts outstanding due and payable and terminate their
commitments to extend credit to us in the future. If we are unable to secure
credit in the future, our business could be harmed.  

   Our
inability to repurchase outstanding convertible notes as required under the
indenture may cause an event of default under other agreements.   

  On July 18, 2010,
2013, 2018 and upon a change in control, as defined in the indenture,
noteholders will have the right to require us to repurchase their notes. If we
do not have sufficient funds to pay the repurchase price for all of the notes tendered,
an event of default under the indenture governing the notes would occur as a
result of such failure. In addition, a change in control might breach a
covenant under our   

16     

revolving
credit agreement, and may be prohibited or limited by, or create an event of
default under, other agreements relating to borrowings that we may enter into
from time to time.  

   Our
reported earnings per share may be more volatile because of the conversion
contingency provision of our notes.   

  Our outstanding
convertible notes are convertible when a  market price  condition is satisfied
and also upon the occurrence of other circumstances as more fully described in
Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Upon conversion,
noteholders will receive at least $1,000 in cash for each $1,000 principal
amount of notes presented for conversion. The excess of the value of the
company s common stock that would have been issuable upon conversion over the
cash delivered will be paid to noteholders in shares of the Company s common
stock. These shares are considered in the calculation of diluted earnings per
share and volatility in our stock price could cause these notes to be dilutive
in one quarter and not in a subsequent quarter, increasing the volatility of
fully diluted earnings per share.  

   We
may be unable to raise additional financing necessary to conduct our business,
make payments when due or refinance our debt.   

  We may need to raise
additional funds in the future in order to implement our business plan, to
refinance our debt or to acquire complementary businesses or products. Any
required additional financing may be unavailable on terms favorable to us, or
at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, holders of
common stock may experience significant dilution of their ownership interest
and these securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our
common stock.  

   Our
indebtedness and interest expense will limit our cash flow and could adversely
affect our operations and our ability to make full payment on our outstanding
notes.   

  Our
indebtedness poses risks to our business, including the risks that:  

             we
could use a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations
to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available
for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, product development
and other general corporate purposes; 

             insufficient cash flow from
operations may force us to sell assets, or seek additional capital, which we
may be unable to do at all or on terms favorable to us; and 

             our level of indebtedness
may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns. 

   We
have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to
dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock.   

  The issuance of additional
equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result
in dilution of existing stockholders  equity interests in us. We are authorized
to issue, without stockholder approval, 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock in
one or more series, which may give other stockholders dividend, conversion,
voting, and liquidation rights, among other rights, which may be superior to
the rights of holders of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority
to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, shares of preferred stock in
one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences,
privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred
stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of
redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior
to the rights of holders of our common stock. Our board of directors has no
present intention of issuing any such preferred stock, but reserves the right
to do so in the future. In addition, we are authorized to issue, without
stockholder approval, up to 85,000,000 shares of common stock, of which
approximately 29,849,000 shares were outstanding as of September 30, 2006.
We are also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, securities
convertible into either shares of common stock or preferred stock.  

17     

Item
1B.                   Unresolved Staff
Comments.   

  None.  

   Item 2.                             Properties    

  The
company occupies approximately 5,000,000 square feet of general office,
factory, warehouse and showroom space throughout the United States, in Germany
and in Brazil. For a description of the encumbrances on certain of these
properties, see Note 2 to the company s consolidated financial statements. The
following table sets forth certain information related to the company s major
facilities:  

Location   

Business Segment   

Primary Use   

Approximate 
   Square 
   Footage   

Owned or 
   Leased   

Jericho, NY  

Corporate Headquarters  

Office  

10,000  

Leased  

Farmingdale, NY  

Electronic Information and
  Communication Systems  

Manufacturing and research
  and development  

193,000  

Owned  

Huntington, NY  

Electronic Information and
  Communication Systems  

Manufacturing  

94,000 
  55,000  

Owned
  Leased  

Columbia, MD  

Electronic Information and
  Communication Systems  

Engineering  

25,000  

Leased  

Gardena, CA  

Electronic Information and
  Communication Systems  

Repairs  

10,000  

Leased  

Stockholm, Sweden  

Electronic Information and
  Communication Systems  

Manufacturing/ Engineering  

27,000  

Leased  

Mason, OH  

Garage Doors 
  Installation Services Specialty Plastic Films  

Office and research and
  development  

131,000  

Leased  

Aschersleben, Germany  

Specialty Plastic Films  

Manufacturing  

290,000  

Owned  

Domb hl, Germany  

Specialty Plastic Films  

Manufacturing  

124,000  

Owned  

Augusta, KY  

Specialty Plastic Films  

Manufacturing  

275,000  

Owned  

Nashville, TN  

Specialty Plastic Films  

Manufacturing  

276,000  

Leased  

Jundiai, Brazil  

Specialty Plastic Films  

Manufacturing  

33,000  

Owned  

Troy, OH  

Garage Doors  

Manufacturing  

867,000  

Owned  

Russia, OH  

Garage Doors  

Manufacturing  

339,000  

Owned  

Baldwin, WI  

Garage Doors  

Manufacturing  

155,000  

Leased  

Auburn, WA  

Garage Doors  

Manufacturing  

123,000  

Leased  

Tempe, AZ  

Garage Doors  

Manufacturing  

100,000  

Leased  

18     

The company also leases
approximately 1,900,000 square feet of space for the Garage Doors distribution
centers and Installation Services locations in numerous facilities throughout
the United States. The company has aggregate minimum annual rental commitments
under real estate leases of approximately $12 million. The majority of the
leases have escalation clauses related to increases in real property taxes on
the leased property and some for cost of living adjustments. Certain of the
leases have renewal and purchase options.  

  In fiscal 2006 the company
acquired a manufacturing facility for the garage door segment in Troy, Ohio.  The plants and equipment of the company are
believed to contain sufficient space for current and presently foreseeable
needs.  

   Item
3.                             Legal Proceedings    

    Department of
Environmental Conservation of New York State ( DEC ), with ISC Properties, Inc.          Lightron Corporation ( Lightron ), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, once conducted operations at a location
in Peekskill in the Town of Cortlandt, New York owned by ISC Properties, Inc.,
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company (the  Peekskill Site ). ISC Properties, Inc.
sold the Peekskill Site in November 1982. 

  Subsequently, the company
was advised by the DEC that random sampling at the Peekskill Site and in a
creek near the Peekskill Site indicated concentrations of solvents and other
chemicals common to Lightron s prior plating operations. ISC Properties, Inc.
then entered into a consent order with the DEC in 1996 (the  Consent Order ) to
perform a remedial investigation and prepare a feasibility study. After
completing the initial remedial investigation pursuant to the Consent Order,
ISC Properties, Inc. was required by the DEC to conduct a supplemental
remedial investigation under the Consent Order. In or about August 2004, a
report was submitted to the DEC of the findings under the supplemental remedial
investigation. Subsequently, an addendum to the supplemental remediation
investigation was negotiated and conducted and a further report submitted to
the DEC. No feasibility study has yet been performed pursuant to the Consent
Order. Management believes, based on facts presently known to it, that the
resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the
company s consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash
flows.  

   Item 4.                             Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    

  No matters were submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year.  

19  

PART II     

   Item 5.                             Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equit  y
Securities  

  (a)   The company s Common Stock is listed for
trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  GFF . The following
table shows for the periods indicated the quarterly range in the high and low
sales prices for the company s Common Stock:  

(b)   As of December 1,
2006, there were approximately 15,000 recordholders of the company s Common
Stock.  

  (c)   No cash
dividends on Common Stock were declared or paid during the five fiscal years
ended September 30, 2006.  

  (d)   Equity
Compensation Plan Information  

  The
following sets forth information relating to the company s equity compensation
plans as of September 30, 2006:  

(1)             Excludes amounts in
connection with the Griffon Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan ( Incentive
Plan ) approved by shareholders during 2006. The Incentive Plan authorizes the
grant of performance shares, performance units, stock options, stock
appreciation rights, restricted shares and deferred shares. The maximum number
of shares of common stock available for award under the Incentive Plan is
1,700,000 and the number of shares available is reduced by a factor of two to
one for awards other than stock options. As of September 30, 2006, options
to purchase 25,000 shares and 309,326 shares of restricted stock have been
awarded. If all of the remaining shares available under the Incentive Plan were
awarded through stock options, approximately 1,056,000 shares would be issued
or if all of the remaining shares were awarded as restricted stock
approximately 528,000 shares would be issued. 

  The company s 1998 Employee and Director Stock Option
Plan (the  Employee and Director Plan ) is the only option plan which was not
approved by the company s stockholders. Eligible participants in the   

20     

Employee and Director Plan
include directors, officers and employees of, and consultants to, the company
or any of its subsidiaries and affiliates. Under the terms of the Employee and
Director Plan, the purchase price of the shares subject to each option granted
will not be less than 100% of the fair market value at the date of grant. The
terms of each option shall be determined at the time of grant by the Board of
Directors or its Compensation Committee.  

  In 2005 the company
granted the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer an option to
purchase 250,000 shares of the company s common stock at an exercise price of
$22.94 per share, the fair market value on the date of grant. The option has a
seven year term, is fully vested and becomes exercisable as to 50% of the
shares after one year and as to 100% of the shares after two years.  

  (e)   Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

(1)             The
company s stock buyback program has been in effect since 1993, under which a
total of approximately 17 million shares have been purchased for $229 million.
There is no time limit on the repurchases to be made under the plan. Shares
purchased apart from publically announced programs were in connection with the
exercise of stock options. 

   Item
6.                             Selected Financial Data    

(1)             Operating results for
2002 include a pre-tax charge of $10,200,000 for the divestiture of an unprofitable
peripheral operation. 

  (2)             Per share amounts in
2002 exclude the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. 

21  

Item 7.                             Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations    

   OVERVIEW     

  Net sales for the year ended September 30, 2006
increased to $1.64 billion, up from $1.40 billion in 2005. Income before income
taxes was $78.7 million compared to $78.9 million last year. Net income was
$51.8 million compared to $48.8 million last year.  

  The Company s building products operations started
strongly in fiscal 2006, continuing the operating gains and momentum that they
achieved in the latter half of fiscal 2005. In the garage doors segment, raw
material costs were relatively stable throughout most of fiscal 2006 with the
segment experiencing an uptick in steel costs towards the end of the year. In
addition, the garage door segment benefited from a shift in customer demand to
more premium doors, a trend that should contribute to future revenue and margin
growth. With respect to the overall outlook for garage doors, we are cautiously
optimistic. The segment has continued to expand as a result of market share
gains achieved by its retail and dealer customer base. Also, we believe that
further opportunities to expand the segment s product line and improve
manufacturing efficiency exist as a result of the recently acquired
manufacturing facility in Troy, Ohio. Although we recently have experienced
softness in some of the segments markets, based on historical precedents we do
not believe that a weakening new home construction market will have a
significant negative impact on the segment as long as consumer confidence stays
strong, fueling demand in the repair and renovate markets.   

  The installation services segment also benefited from
the decreased volatility in steel costs. However, gains from strength in the
segment s Las Vegas and Phoenix markets and increased market share among
national and regional home builders are being tempered by lower sales and
narrower margins due primarily to increased competitive pressure. Several
national builders have experienced and forecast continuing weakness in sales of
new residential housing. We expect this segment s fiscal 2007 sales will be
below 2006 levels due to weaker housing markets and the loss of certain
customers in the segment s Las Vegas market. Several steps have been and are
being taken, including the strengthening of segment management and the
evaluation of cost reduction initiatives. We expect that the installation
services segment will experience a six month period of adjustment before
housing starts return to satisfactory levels, though we do not expect them to
return to the record levels recently experienced. Consequently, we expect that
this segment s earnings will be negatively affected as the effect of sales and
product initiatives will not be sufficient to offset the anticipated sales
volume decrease.   

  The specialty plastic films segment had a difficult
year. Fiscal 2006 started slowly for this segment, which experienced a
significant first quarter decrease in sales and profitability due to lower unit
volume and the impact of higher resin costs. Operating results were favorably
affected by the subsequent return to normal levels of volume with the segment s
major customer. Raw material costs for this segment eased during most of the
year, though remaining above 2005 levels, and again began exerting upward
pressure in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. Due to the lag created by
customer supply agreements and competitive market conditions the segment was
not able to pass these increases to customers. Resin price increases had an
unfavorable impact on operating income of approximately $4 million for the
fourth quarter and $7 million for the year. Recently, resin prices have been
weaker and we believe that fiscal 2007 prices will be flat to slightly
favorable. Operating profit was also reduced by approximately $2 million for
the severance cost of a reduction in force, completed in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2006. The reduction focused on non-direct labor personnel and is
expected to result in approximately $5 million of annual cost savings. Specialty
plastic films  results were also affected by the execution of its strategy to
diversify and expand with new products and customers. Although the segment has
successfully qualified new products and negotiated supply agreements with
several important new customers in Europe, profitability was negatively
affected by startup costs associated with the new business and in Brazil in
connection with new production capacity. The majority of specialty plastic
films  products are custom engineered to meet each customer s   

22     

unique requirements. As
new customers and products come on board, the segment goes through a start-up
period that impacts its output and material yields as production ramps-up to
commercial volumes. These factors add cost and they are particularly significant
in the current climate of high resin prices. These start-up period challenges
are not new to this segment and we are confident that, as in the past, they
will be effectively addressed. In September the segment started shipping
commercial quantities of its important new product, elastic laminates for the
hygiene products market. The product and process are in qualification with key
target customers and we expect that volume will ramp for this product over the
remainder of fiscal 2007 in North America and Europe.  

  The electronic information
and communications systems segment had an outstanding year in fiscal 2006. This
segment achieved a 75% increase in net sales and more than doubled its
operating profit compared to last year. This substantial growth was primarily
attributable to the Warlock-Duke program with Syracuse Research Corporation
(SRC) to manufacture equipment that is designed to defeat roadside bomb threats.
This segment has now received awards in connection with the SRC contract approaching
$280 million, and this work is expected to be completed by the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2007 with discussions continuing about additional orders. The segment s
other programs are performing well, and backlog has grown to $373 million, reflecting
the SRC contract and the expected ramp-up of the MH-60R program. The MH-60R
program is proceeding as planned, and if production continues to ramp-up as
anticipated over the next eighteen months, it will then generate annual revenue
of approximately $100 million.  

   RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS     

  See Note 7 of  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.   

   Fiscal 2006
Compared to Fiscal 2005     

  Operating
results (in thousands) by business segment were as follows:  

Garage Doors     

  Net sales of the garage doors segment increased by
$17.4 million compared to 2005. The sales growth was principally due to selling
price increases ($12 million) that partially passed the effect of higher raw
material costs to customers and favorable product mix ($9 million) partly
offset by the effect of lower unit volume ($4 million).  

  Operating profit of the garage
doors segment increased $3.5 million compared to last year. Gross margin
percentage was 30.8% in 2006 compared to 29.6% in 2005, reflecting the selling
price increases and improved product mix. The positive effects of increased
sales and margins were partly offset by higher selling, general and
administrative expenses which increased $8 million over 2005 primarily due to
higher distribution and freight costs and increased marketing and advertising. As
a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased
to 23.4% from 22.6% last year.  

23     

Installation
Services     

  Net sales of the installation services segment
increased by $38.7 million compared to last year. The higher sales resulted
from a strong construction environment in 2006 and market share gains in the
segment s Phoenix market, tempered by the effect of increased competition
including the loss of certain customer accounts in the Las Vegas market.  

  Operating profit of the
installation services segment was approximately the same compared to last year.
Gross margin percentage decreased to 26.6% from 26.7% last year. The effect of
the sales increase was somewhat moderated by the lower margin and was
substantially offset by higher operating expenses. Selling, general and
administrative expenses increased approximately $10 million due primarily to
higher distribution and selling costs to support the sales increase, and as a
percentage of sales, was 23.9% in 2006 compared to 23.8% in 2005.  

   Specialty Plastic
Films      

  Net sales of the specialty plastic films segment
increased $11.2 million compared to last year. The increase was primarily due
to higher unit volume ($23 million) principally related to new programs with
private label manufacturers in Europe and the effect ($7 million) of selling
price adjustments to partially pass increased raw material costs to customers,
partly offset by the change in product mix ($19 million) compared to last year.

Operating profit of the
specialty plastic films segment decreased $16.1 million compared to last year. Gross
margin percentage decreased to 17.2% from 21.4% last year. The lower gross
margin and operating profit reflect product mix changes, the effect ($7
million) of higher raw material costs, start-up costs for new customer programs
and related manufacturing inefficiencies, and a charge of approximately $2
million for a reduction in force. Selling, general and administrative expenses
increased by approximately $4 million principally due to expenses ($2 million)
related to the new Brazil facility, higher distribution costs, and a full year
of intangible asset amortization. As a percentage of sales, selling, general
and administrative expenses were 13.7% in 2006 compared to 13.1% last year.  

   Electronic
Information and Communication Systems      

  Net sales of the electronic information and
communication systems segment increased $166.4 million compared to last year. The
SRC contract accounted for the significant growth in revenue, with the MH-60R
program also contributing.   

  Operating profit of the
electronic information and communication systems segment increased $21.5
million compared to last year. Gross margin percentage decreased to 19.4% from
23.4% last year, principally due to lower margins on production programs and
cost growth on certain development programs. The effect of lower margins was
offset by the sales increase. Selling, general and administrative expenses
increased approximately $2 million over last year but, as a percentage of
sales, was 9.4% compared to 15.5% last year due to the sales growth.  

   Interest Expense      

  Interest expense increased
by $2.2 million compared to 2005 principally due to higher levels of
outstanding borrowings throughout the year.   

   Income Tax Expense      

  The provision for income
taxes for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 reflects a rate that is
lower than the statutory United States and applicable foreign tax rates
primarily due to the reversal of approximately $1.4 million of estimated income
tax liabilities in connection with closed tax years.  

24     

Fiscal 2005
Compared to Fiscal 2004     

  Operating
results (in thousands) by business segment were as follows:  

Garage Doors     

  Net sales of the garage doors segment increased by
$55.8 million compared to 2004. The sales growth was principally due to selling
price increases ($43.8 million) that partially passed the effect of higher raw
material costs to customers. The remainder of the increase was primarily due to
favorable product mix.  

  Operating profit of the
garage doors segment decreased $4.9 million compared to 2004. Gross margin
percentage was 29.6% in 2005 compared to 33.0% in 2004. Selling price increases
did not offset the effect of higher raw material costs, reducing the segment s
gross margin and operating profit by approximately $4 to $5 million. The net
effect ($5 million) of favorable product mix and unit volume positively
affected gross margin and operating profit. Selling, general and administrative
expenses increased $5.5 million primarily due to higher distribution and
freight costs and increased marketing and advertising compared to 2004 but, as
a percentage of sales, declined to 22.6% from 24.1% in 2004 due to the sales
increase.  

   Installation
Services     

  Net sales of the installation services segment
decreased by $7.0 million compared to 2004. The lower sales resulted from a
weaker construction environment in certain of the segment s markets during the
first half of 2005, increased competition and elimination of an underperforming
location in 2004, partly offset by the effect of a strengthening construction
environment in the second half of 2005 and increased market share.  

  Operating profit of the
installation services segment decreased $1.8 million compared to 2004. Narrower
margins due to the competitive market conditions and higher raw material costs
reduced the gross margin percentage to 26.7% from 27.6% in 2004. The lower
sales and reduced margins negatively impacted operating profit by approximately
$4.7 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased
approximately $2.8 million due primarily to lower variable costs, and as a
percentage of sales, was 23.8% in 2005 compared to 24.1% in 2004.  

   Specialty Plastic
Films     

  Net sales of the specialty plastic films segment
decreased $41.2 million compared to 2004. The decrease was primarily due to
lower unit volume ($67 million) principally related to product design changes
by the segment s major customer, partly offset by the effect ($20.4 million) of
selling price adjustments to partially pass increased raw material costs to
customers.  

  Operating profit of the
specialty plastic films segment decreased $21.1 million compared to 2004. Gross
margin percentage decreased to 21.4% from 25.6% in 2004. The lower gross margin
and operating profit reflected the effect (approximately $26 million) of lower
unit volume and underabsorbed fixed costs and the negative impact ($1 to $2
million) of higher raw material costs, partly offset by the positive effect   

25     

($2
million) of exchange rate differences and other items. Selling, general and
administrative expenses decreased by approximately $4.5 million principally due
to the sales decrease, but as a percentage of sales, increased to 13.1% from
12.9% in 2004.  

   Electronic
Information and Communication Systems     

  Net sales of the electronic information and
communication systems segment were approximately the same compared to 2004. New
program awards and funding on existing programs replaced revenue attributable
to a $35 million contract for ground surveillance radars that was fully
performed in 2004.  

  Operating profit of the
electronic information and communication systems segment decreased $2.1 million
compared to 2004. Gross margin percentage decreased to 23.4% from 24.0% in
2004, principally due to lower margins on certain development programs and
higher margins in 2004 on certain commercial product lines. The reduced margin
negatively impacted operating profit by approximately $1 million. Selling,
general and administrative expenses increased approximately $1 million over
2004 principally due to acquisitions, and as a percentage of sales, was 15.5%
compared to 15.0% last year.  

   Interest Expense     

  Interest expense increased
by $.2 million compared to 2004.  

   Income Tax Expense     

  The provision for income
taxes for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 includes $1.3 million
of tax benefits reflecting the reversal of previously recorded tax liabilities
in connection with the closure by statute, for U.S. Federal income tax
purposes, of fiscal 2001.  

   LIQUIDITY AND
CAPITAL RESOURCES     

  Cash flow generated by operations for 2006 was $16.3
million compared to $58.3 million last year and working capital was $309
million at September 30, 2006. Operating cash flows decreased compared to
last year due primarily to higher inventory and accounts receivable levels,
partly offset by increases in current liabilities. Higher working capital in
the electronic information and communication systems segment is primarily attributable
to the Warlock-Duke program with SRC and the MH-60R program. The higher working
capital in the specialty plastic films segment is primarily attributable to an increase
in inventory levels.  

  Net cash used in investing activities during 2006 was
$45.4 million. The company had capital expenditures of $42 million. The garage
doors segment s capital expenditures included a new manufacturing facility; the
cost of the facility and planned improvements are expected to approximate $15
million. The facility will be used to expand existing manufacturing
capabilities and to add new manufacturing processes and products to the segment s
product line. Capital expenditures for specialty plastic films declined from an
average of $33 million over the past three years to approximately $11 million
in 2006, a level believed to be indicative of specialty plastic films
requirements over the next few years.  

  Net cash used in financing
activities during 2006 was $9.9 million. In December 2005, the company and
a subsidiary entered into a new five-year senior secured multicurrency
revolving credit facility in the amount of up to $150 million. Commitments
under the credit agreement may be increased by $50 million under certain
circumstances upon request of the Company. Borrowings under the credit
agreement bear interest at rates based upon LIBOR or the prime rate and are
collateralized by stock of a subsidiary of the Company. The credit agreement
replaced a loan agreement dating from October 2001 and refinanced $60
million of borrowings under such agreement. The proceeds of additional
borrowings under the credit agreement have been used for general corporate
purposes. Proceeds from borrowings under long-term   

26     

debt
arrangements, including the refinancing, aggregated $74 million, and the
exercise of employee stock options provided another $2.6 million. Approximately
$19.8 million was used to acquire a total of 814,000 shares of Common
Stock. Approximately 1.6 million shares of common stock are available for purchase
pursuant to the company s stock buyback program and additional purchases,
including any 10b5-1 plan purchases, will be made, depending upon market
conditions, at prices deemed appropriate by management.  

   Contractual
Obligations     

  At
September 30, 2006, payments to be made pursuant to significant
contractual obligations are as follows (000 s omitted):  

The purchase obligations are generally for the
purchase of goods and services in the ordinary course of business. The company
uses blanket purchase orders to communicate expected requirements to certain of
its vendors. Purchase obligations reflect those purchase orders where the
commitment is considered to be firm. Purchase obligations that extend beyond
2007 are principally related to long-term contracts received from customers of
the electronic information and communication systems segment.  

  A wholly owned subsidiary
of the company has a lease agreement that limits dividends it may pay to the
parent company. The agreement permits the payment of income taxes based on a
tax sharing arrangement, and dividends based on a percentage of the
subsidiary s net income. At September 30, 2006 the subsidiary had net
assets of approximately $427 million. The company expects that cash flows from
operations, together with existing cash, bank lines of credit and lease line availability,
should be adequate to satisfy contractual obligations and finance presently
anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements.  

   ACCOUNTING POLICIES
AND PRONOUNCEMENTS     

   Critical Accounting
Policies     

  The company s significant accounting policies are set
forth in Note 1 of  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  The following
discussion of critical accounting policies addresses those policies that
require management judgment and estimates and are most important in determining
the company s operating results and financial condition.  

  The company recognizes revenues for most of its
operations when title and the risks of ownership pass to its customers.
Provisions for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers
to remit payments are recorded in the company s consolidated financial
statements. Judgment is required to estimate the ultimate realization of
receivables, including specific reviews for collectibility when, based on an
evaluation of facts and circumstances, the company may be unable to collect
amounts owed to it, as well as estimation of overall collectibility of those
receivables that have not required specific review.  

27  

The company s electronic information and communication
systems segment does a significant portion of its business under long-term
contracts. This unit generally recognizes contract-related revenue and profit
using the percentage of completion method of accounting, which relies on
estimates of total expected contract costs. A significant amount of judgment is
required to estimate contract costs, including estimating many variables such
as costs for material, labor and subcontracting costs, as well as applicable
indirect costs. The company follows this method of accounting for its long-term
contracts since reasonably dependable estimates of costs applicable to various
elements of a contract can be made. Since the financial reporting of these
contracts depends on estimates, recognized revenues and profit are subject to
revisions as contracts progress to completion. Contract cost estimates are
generally updated quarterly. Revisions in revenue and profit estimates are
reflected in the period in which the circumstances requiring the revision
become known. Provisions are made currently for anticipated losses on
uncompleted contracts.  

  Inventory is stated at the lower of cost (principally
first-in, first-out) or market. Inventory valuation requires the company to use
judgment to estimate any necessary allowances for excess, slow-moving and
obsolete inventory, which estimates are based on assessments about future
demands, market conditions and management actions.  

  The company sponsors several defined benefit pension
plans. The amount of the company s liability for pension benefits and the
amount of pension expense recognized in the financial statements is determined
using actuarial assumptions such as the discount rate, the long-term rate of
return on plan assets and the rate of compensation increases. Judgment is
required to annually determine the rates to be used in performing the actuarial
calculations. The company evaluates these assumptions with its actuarial and
investment advisors and believes that they are within accepted industry ranges.
In 2006 the discount rate was raised to reflect current market conditions.  

  Upon acquisition, the excess of cost over the fair
value of an acquired business  net assets is recorded as goodwill. Annually in
its fourth fiscal quarter, the company evaluates goodwill for impairment by
comparing the carrying value of its operating units to estimates of the related
operation s fair values. An evaluation would also be performed if an event
occurs or circumstances change such that the estimated fair value of the
company s operating units would be reduced below its carrying value.  

  The company depreciates property, plant and equipment
on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are based
upon the nature of the assets and their planned use in the company s
operations. Events and circumstances such as changes in operating plans,
technological change or regulatory matters could affect the manner in which
long-lived assets are held and used. Judgment is required to establish depreciable
lives for operating assets and to evaluate events or circumstances for
indications that the value of long-lived assets has been impaired.  

  Income taxes include
current year amounts that are payable or refundable and deferred taxes
reflecting the company s estimate of the future tax consequences of temporary
differences between amounts reflected in the financial statements and their tax
basis. Changes in tax laws and rates may affect the amount of recorded deferred
tax assets and liabilities.  

   Recent Accounting
Pronouncements     

  The Financial Accounting
Standards Board ( FASB ) has issued SFAS 123R,  Share-Based Payment,  which
requires that compensation costs relating to share-based payment transactions
be recognized in the financial statements based upon fair value, eliminates the
option to continue to account for such compensation under APB Opinion No. 25
and, pursuant to SEC Release 33-8568, became effective in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006. The company adopted this pronouncement using modified prospective
application and previously reported operating results and earnings per share
amounts are unchanged. (See Note 3). The FASB has also issued Statements of
Financial Accounting Standards Nos. 151,  Inventory Costs  152,  Accounting
for Real Estate Time-Sharing Transactions  153,  Exchange of   

28     

Nonmonetary
Assets  154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  155,  Accounting for
Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  156,  Accounting for Servicing of
Financial Assets  157,  Fair Value Measurements  158,  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirment Plans  Interpretation No. 47,
 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  Staff Position No. FAS
123(R)-3,  Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects
of Share-Based Payment Awards  and Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes.  SFAS 151 requires that abnormal amounts of idle
facility expense, freight, handling costs and spoilage be recognized as period
charges and became effective in fiscal 2006. SFAS 152 requires that real estate
time-sharing transactions be accounted for pursuant to the AICPA Statement of
Position,  Accounting for Real Estate Time-Sharing Transactions  rather than
SFAS 66 and SFAS 67 and became effective in fiscal 2006. SFAS No. 153
replaces the exception from fair value measurement for non-monetary exchanges
of similar productive assets with an exception for exchanges that do not have
commercial substance and became effective in fiscal 2006. SFAS 154, which
becomes effective in fiscal 2007, changes the accounting for and reporting of a
change in accounting principle by generally requiring that they be
retrospectively applied in prior period financial statements. SFAS 155
establishes the accounting for certain derivatives embedded in other financial
instruments. SFAS 156 amends the accounting for separately recognized servicing
assets and liabilities. SFAS 157 defines fair value and establishes a framework
for fair value measurements. SFAS 158 requires that the funded status of
defined benefit plans be recognized in the balance sheet. Interpretation 47
clarified when certain asset retirement obligations should be recognized and
became effective in fiscal 2006. Staff Position 123(R)-3 permits the company
to elect to follow the transition guidance for the additional paid-in-capital
pool or the pronouncement s alternative transition method. Interpretation 48,
which becomes effective in fiscal 2008, clarifies the accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements. Also, the
SEC has issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108 concerning the manner in
which prior period errors in financial statements should be evaluated. The
company does not believe that the adoption of SFAS 151, SFAS 152, SFAS 153,
SFAS 154, SFAS 155, SFAS 156, SFAS 157, SFAS 158 Interpretation 47 and SAB 108
have had or will have a material effect on the company s consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. The company is currently assessing
what the effects of Staff Position 123(R)-3 and of Interpretation 48 will
be on the financial statements.  

   FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS     

  All statements other than
statements of historical fact included in this annual report, including without
limitation statements regarding the company s financial position, business
strategy, and the plans and objectives of the company s management for future
operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this annual report,
words such as  anticipate ,  believe ,  estimate ,  expect ,  intend  and
similar expressions, as they relate to the company or its management, identify
forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the
beliefs of the company s management, as well as assumptions made by and
information currently available to the company s management. Actual results
could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking
statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to,
business and economic conditions, results of integrating acquired businesses
into existing operations, competitive factors and pricing pressures for resin
and steel, capacity and supply constraints. Such statements reflect the views
of the company with respect to future events and are subject to these and other
risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the operations, results of
operations, growth strategy and liquidity of the company. Readers are cautioned
not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The company
does not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to these
forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances or to
reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  

29     

Item 7A.                     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk    

  Management does not
believe that there is any material market risk exposure with respect to foreign
currency, derivatives or other financial instruments that would require
disclosure under this item.  

   Item 8.                             Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

  The financial
statements of the company and its subsidiaries and the report thereon of Grant
Thornton LLP, dated December 13, 2006 for the fiscal year ended September 30,
2006 and of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, dated December 13, 2005 for the
fiscal years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 are included herein:  

             Reports
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms. 

             Consolidated
Balance Sheets at September 30, 2006 and 2005. 

             Consolidated
Statements of Income, Cash Flows and Shareholders  Equity for the years ended September 30,
2006, 2005 and 2004. 

             Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

30  

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  Board of Directors and Shareholders 
Griffon Corporation  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet of Griffon Corporation (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries (the  Company )
as of September 30, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of
income, shareholders  equity and cash flows for the year then ended. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audit.  

  We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Griffon Corporation and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2006,
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then
ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.  

  As discussed in Note 1 of the notes to consolidated
financial statements, the Company has adopted Financial Accounting Standards
Board Statement No. 123(R), Share-Based Payments on October 1, 2005.  

  Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an
opinion on the basic financial statements taken as a whole. Schedules I and II
as of and for the year ended September 30, 2006 are presented for purposes
of additional analysis and are not a required part of the basic financial
statements. These schedules have been subjected to the auditing procedures
applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, are
fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole.  

  We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting based on criteria established in
Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria) and our report
dated December 13, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  

31  

Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Griffon
Corporation:  

  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Griffon Corporation and its
subsidiaries (the  Company ) at September 30, 2005 and 2004, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the two years in
the period ended September 30, 2005 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in
our opinion, the financial statement schedules listed in the index appearing
under Item 15(a)(2) present fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial
statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedules based on our audits. We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial
statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

32  

GRIFFON CORPORATION   
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.     33  

GRIFFON CORPORATION   
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME   

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.     34  

GRIFFON CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.     35  

GRIFFON
CORPORATION     

   CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY     

   For the Years Ended
September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004   

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an
integral part of these statements.  

36  

GRIFFON CORPORATION   
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

   NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:     

   Consolidation     

  The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Griffon Corporation and all subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany items have been eliminated in consolidation.  

   Use of estimates     

  The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported
amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.  

   Financial instruments,
cash flows and credit risk     

  The company considers all highly liquid investments
purchased with an initial maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents. Cash payments for interest were approximately $7,462,000,
$8,026,000 and $8,557,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  A substantial portion of the company s trade
receivables are from customers of the garage doors and installation services
segments whose financial condition is dependent on the construction and related
retail sectors of the economy.  

  The allowance for doubtful
accounts reflects the estimated accounts receivable that will not be collected
due to credit losses and customer returns and allowances. Provisions for
estimated uncollectible accounts receivable are made for individual accounts
based upon specific facts and circumstances including criteria such as their
age, amount, and customer standing. Provisions are also made for other accounts
receivable not specifically reviewed based upon historical experience.  

  The carrying values of
cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts and notes payable and
revolving credit debt approximate fair value due to either the short-term
nature of such instruments or the fact that the interest rate of the revolving
credit debt is based upon current market rates. The company s 4% convertible
notes are not listed for trading on any exchange and it is not practicable to
determine their fair value.  

   Comprehensive
income     

  Comprehensive income is presented in the consolidated
statements of shareholders  equity and consists of net income and other items
of comprehensive income such as minimum pension liability adjustments and
foreign currency translation adjustments.  

  The components of
accumulated other comprehensive income at September 30, 2006 were a
foreign currency translation adjustment of $16,612,000 and a minimum pension
liability adjustment, net of tax, of ($17,018,000). At September 30, 2005,
accumulated comprehensive income consisted of a foreign currency translation
adjustment of $7,970,000, and a minimum pension liability adjustment, net of
tax, of ($21,568,000). At September 30, 2004, accumulated comprehensive
income consisted of a foreign currency   

37     

translation
adjustment of $4,066,000, and a minimum pension liability adjustment, net of
tax, of ($9,117,000).  

   Foreign currency     

  The financial statements
of foreign subsidiaries were prepared in their respective local currencies and
translated into U.S. Dollars based on the current exchange rates at the end of
the period for the balance sheet and average exchange rates for results of
operations.  

   Revenue recognition     

  Sales are generally recorded as products are shipped or
installed and title and risk of ownership have passed to customers.  

  The Electronic Information and Communication Systems
segment records sales and gross profits on its long-term contracts on a
percentage-of-completion basis. The percentage of completion method is used for
those construction-type contracts where the performance is anticipated to take
more than one year. Contract claims are recognized in revenue to the extent of
costs incurred when their amounts can be reliably estimated and realization is
probable. The company determines sales and gross profits by relating costs
incurred to current estimates of total manufacturing costs of such contracts.
General and administrative expenses are expensed as incurred. Revisions in
estimated profits are made in the period in which the circumstances requiring
the revision become known. Provisions are made currently for anticipated losses
on uncompleted contracts.  

   Contract costs and
recognized income not yet billed  consists of recoverable costs and accrued
profit on long-term contracts for which billings had not been presented to the
customers because the amounts were not billable at the balance sheet date, net
of progress payments of $6,859,000 at September 30, 2006 and $3,925,000 at
September 30, 2005. Amounts become billable when applicable contractual
terms are met. Such terms vary, and include the achievement of specified milestones,
product delivery and stipulated progress payments. Substantially all such
amounts will be billed and collected within one year.  

   Inventories     

  Inventories,
stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out or average) or market, include
material, labor and manufacturing overhead costs and are comprised of the
following:  

Property, plant and
equipment     

  Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is
provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
assets.  

  Estimated useful lives for property, plant and
equipment are as follows: buildings and building improvements 25 to 40 years;
machinery and equipment 2 to 15 years and leasehold improvements over the life
of the lease or life of the improvement, whichever is shorter. The original
cost of fully-depreciated property, plant and equipment remaining in use at September 30,
2006 is approximately $92,000,000.  

38     

Property,
plant and equipment consists of the following:  

Acquisitions and costs in excess of fair value of net
assets of businesses acquired ( Goodwill ) and othe  r intangible assets   

  In June 2002, the company acquired a 60% interest
in Isofilme Ltda., a Brazilian manufacturer of plastic  hygienic and specialty films, for approximately $18,000,000,  including
$13,800,000 paid in fiscal 2003. During the first quarter of 2005, the
ownership interest increased from 60% to 90% for an additional investment of
approximately $3,900,000. In October 2005, the remaining 10% was acquired
for $1,300,000. During the second quarter of 2005 the electronic information
and communication systems segment acquired two businesses that complement
existing communications product lines and enhance the segment s research and
development and customer support capabilities for an aggregate of approximately
$9,900,000 plus potential performance-based payments of up to $6,500,000 over
six years. In July 2005 the specialty plastic films segment purchased the
40% interest of Finotech Verbundstoffe GmbH   Co. KG (Finotech) that it
did not already own from its joint venture partner in an $82,000,000 cash
transaction. The purchase was funded with $22,000,000 of cash on-hand and
$60,000,000 of financing obtained through the company s existing revolving
credit facility. These acquisitions increased indefinite lived intangible
assets, unpatented technology, by approximately $10,000,000 and increased
amortizable customer relationship intangible assets by approximately
$26,000,000.  

  The above acquisitions have been accounted for as
purchases and resulted in an increase in goodwill of approximately $41,000,000
in 2005. Currency translation adjustments related to specialty plastic films 
foreign operations increased goodwill by $2,600,000 in 2006 and $4,800,000 in
2005.  

  Goodwill
and other intangible assets include the following:  

The useful lives of amortizable intangible assets
average approximately twenty-five years and amortization will average
approximately $1,200,000 for each of the five succeeding years.  

39     

Assets
acquired and liabilities assumed as a consequence of the Finotech minority
interest purchase included property, plant and equipment of $8,300,000,
intangible assets of $25,000,000, goodwill of $33,900,000 and tax liabilities
of $11,200,000. Pro forma results of operations had the purchase taken place at
the beginning of fiscal 2005 or 2004 are as follows:  

Income taxes     

  The company provides for income taxes using the
liability method. Deferred taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial
reporting and income tax purposes, as determined under enacted tax laws and
rates. The effect of changes in tax laws or rates is accounted for in the
period of enactment.  

  The
provision for income taxes is comprised of the following:  

The components
of income before income taxes are as follows:  

The provision for income taxes includes current U.S.
Federal income taxes of $25,048,000 in 2006, $16,714,000 in 2005 and $9,580,000
in 2004. The deferred taxes result primarily from differences in the reporting
of depreciation, interest, the allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation,
and other currently nondeductible accruals. Prepaid expenses and other assets
at September 30, 2006 and 2005 include deferred income tax assets
aggregating  $19,900,000 and $18,900,000,
respectively, attribut able primarily to accruals and allowances that are
not presently deductible. Other liabilities and deferred credits at September 30,
2006 and 2005 included deferred taxes of $15,700,000 and $22,200,000,
respectively, attributable primarily to depreciation and interest. The company
has not recorded deferred income taxes on the undistributed earnings of its
foreign subsidiaries because of management s intent to indefinitely reinvest
such earnings. At September 30, 2006, the company s share of the
undistributed earnings of the foreign subsidiaries amounted to approximately
$73,000,000.  

  Cash payments for income taxes were $30,814,000,
$11,050,000 and $26,960,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

40     

The
company s provision for income taxes includes a benefit of $1,359,000 in 2006
and $1,315,000 in 2005 reflecting the resolution of certain previously recorded
tax liabilities principally due to the closing for adjustments by statute of
prior years  tax returns. The following table indicates the significant
elements contributing to the difference between the U.S. Federal statutory tax
rate and the company s effective tax rate:  

Research and
development costs, shipping and handling costs   and advertising costs   

  Research and development costs not recoverable under
contractual arrangements are charged to selling, general and administrative
expense as incurred. Approximately $15,300,000, $16,100,000 and $17,400,000 in
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, was incurred on such research and
development.  

  Selling, general and
administrative expenses include shipping and handling costs of $39,200,000 in
2006, $34,400,000 in 2005 and $34,000,000 in 2004, and advertising costs of
$17,200,000 in 2006.  

   Accrued liabilities
and other liabilities and deferred credits     

  Accrued
liabilities included the following at September 30:  

Other liabilities and
deferred credits included pension liabilities of $43.7 million at
September 30, 2006 and $48.9 million at September 30, 2005.  

   Earnings per share
(EPS)     

  Basic EPS is calculated by dividing income available
to common shareholders by the weighted average number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding during the period. The weighted average number of shares of Common
Stock used in determining basic EPS was 29,968,000 in 2006, 29,851,000 in 2005
and 29,762,000 in 2004.  

  Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing income available
to common shareholders by the weighted average number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding plus additional common shares that could be issued in connection
with potentially dilutive securities. The weighted average number of shares of
Common Stock used in determining diluted EPS was 31,326,000 in 2006, 31,416,000
in 2005 and 31,586,000 in 2004 and reflects additional shares primarily in
connection with stock option and other stock-based compensation plans.  

41  

In October 2004 the
Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) ratified the consensus of the
Emerging Issues Task Force on Issue 04-8,  The Effect of Contingently
Convertible Instruments on Diluted Earnings per Share.  This consensus requires
contingently convertible debt to be included in the calculation of diluted
earnings per share even though related market based contingencies have not been
met. Holders of the company s 4% convertible subordinated notes are entitled to
convert their notes upon the occurrence of certain events and on the terms
described in Note 2. Shares potentially issuable upon conversion will be
included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share using the  treasury
stock  method. Adoption of Issue 04-8, which became effective in fiscal
2005, did not affect the company s fiscal 2004 or previously reported diluted
earnings per share amounts.  

   Recent accounting
pronouncements     

  The FASB has issued SFAS
123R,  Share-Based Payment,  which requires that compensation costs relating to
share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements
based upon fair value, eliminates the option to continue to account for such
compensation under APB Opinion No. 25 and, pursuant to SEC Release 33-8568,
became effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The company adopted this
pronouncement using modified prospective application and previously reported
operating results and earnings per share amounts are unchanged. (See Note 3). The
FASB has also issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards Nos. 151,  Inventory
Costs   152,  Accounting for Real Estate
Time-Sharing Transactions  153,  Exchange of Nonmonetary Assets   154,  Accounting Changes and Error
Corrections  155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  156,  Accounting
for Servicing of Financial Assets  157,  Fair Value Measurements  158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans 
Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations   Staff Position No. FAS
123(R)-3,  Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects
of Share-Based Payment Awards  and Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes.   SFAS 151
requires that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling
costs and spoilage be recognized as period charges and became effective in
fiscal 2006. SFAS 152 requires that real estate time-sharing transactions be
accounted for pursuant to the AICPA Statement of Position,  Accounting for Real
Estate Time-Sharing Transactions  rather than SFAS 66 and SFAS 67 and
became effective in fiscal 2006. SFAS No. 153 replaces the exception from
fair value measurement for non-monetary exchanges of similar productive assets
with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance and
became effective in fiscal 2006. SFAS 154, which becomes effective in fiscal
2007, changes the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting
principle by generally requiring that they be retrospectively applied in prior
period financial statements. SFAS 155 establishes the accounting for certain
derivatives embedded in other financial instruments. SFAS 156 amends the
accounting for separately recognized servicing assets and liabilities. SFAS 157
defines fair value and establishes a framework for fair value measurements. SFAS
158 requires that the funded status of defined benefit plans be recognized in
the balance sheet. Interpretation 47 clarified when certain asset retirement
obligations should be recognized and became effective in fiscal 2006. Staff
Position 123(R)-3 permits the company to elect to follow the transition
guidance for the additional paid-in-capital pool or the pronouncement s
alternative transition method. Interpretation 48, which becomes effective in
fiscal 2008, clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
recognized in the financial statements. Also, the SEC has issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 108 concerning the manner in which prior period
errors in financial statements should be evaluated. The company does not
believe that the adoption of SFAS 151, SFAS 152, SFAS 153, SFAS 154, SFAS 155,
SFAS 156, SFAS 157, SFAS 158 Interpretation 47 and SAB 108 have had or
will have a material effect on the company s consolidated financial position,
results of operations or cash flows. The company is currently assessing what
the effects of Staff Position 123(R)-3 and of Interpretation 48 will be
on the financial statements.  

42     

NOTE 2 NOTES
PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT:     

  At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the company had
short-term notes payable of $7,196,000 and $7,189,000, respectively,
principally in connection with its European operations. The average interest
rate of outstanding short-term debt was 5.8% at September 30, 2006 and
2005.  

  Long-term
debt at September 30 consisted of the following:  

The company has outstanding $130,000,000 of 4%
convertible subordinated notes due 2023 (the  Notes ). Holders may convert the
Notes at a conversion price of $24.13 per share, subject to adjustment, which
is equal to a conversion rate of approximately 41.4422 shares per $1,000
principal amount of Notes. The Notes are convertible (1) when the market
price of the company s Common Stock is more than 150%, as amended, of the
conversion price, (2) if the company has called the notes for redemption, (3) if
during a 5 day trading period the trading price of the Notes falls below
certain thresholds or (4) upon the occurrence of specified corporate
transactions. Upon conversion, the company had the option of delivering cash or
a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock in exchange for tendered Notes.
The company has irrevocably elected to pay Noteholders at least $1,000 in cash
for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes presented for conversion. The excess
of the value of the company s Common Stock that would have been issuable upon
conversion over the cash delivered will be paid to Noteholders in shares of the
company s Common Stock.  

  The company may redeem the Notes on or after July 26,
2010, for cash, at their principal amount plus accrued interest. Holders of the
Notes may require the company to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes on July 18,
2010, 2013 and 2018, and upon a change in control.  

  In December 2005, the company and a subsidiary
entered into a new five-year senior secured multicurrency revolving credit
facility in the amount of up to $150,000,000. Commitments under the credit
agreement may be increased by $50,000,000 under certain circumstances upon
request of the company. Borrowings under the credit agreement bear interest
(6.41% at September 30, 2006) at rates based upon LIBOR or the prime rate
and are collateralized by stock of a subsidiary of the company. The credit
agreement replaced a loan agreement dating from October 2001 and
refinanced $60 million of borrowings under such agreement. The proceeds of
additional borrowings under the credit agreement have been used for general
corporate purposes.  

  The company s European operations have bank  agreements that provide for revolving credit up to
 $32,000,000 with no outstanding borrowings at September 30, 2006
and a term loan with a balance of $3,606,000 at September 30, 2005 which
was paid in 2006. At September 30, 2005, amounts outstanding bore interest
at 3.4%, under the term loan agreement.  

  Real estate mortgages bear interest at rates from 6.3%
to 6.6% with maturities extending through  2016
and are collateralized by real property whose  carrying value at September 30,
2006 aggregated approximately $13,000,000.  

43     

The company s ESOP (see Note 4) has a loan agreement
the proceeds of which were used to purchase equity securities of the company.
Outstanding borrowings of the ESOP have maturities extending through 2011, bear
interest at rates (6.64% at September 30, 2006 and 5.21% at September 30,
2005) based upon the prime rate or LIBOR and are guaranteed by the company.  

  The
following are the maturities of long-term debt outstanding at September 30,
2006:  

NOTE 3 SHAREHOLDERS 
EQUITY:     

  On October 1,
2005 the company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),
 Share-Based Payment  (see Note 1). The company previously adopted stock option
plans under which options for an aggregate of 6,950,000 shares of Common Stock
may be granted. As of September 30, 2006 options for 34,872 shares remain
available for future grants under such plans. The plans provide for the
granting of options at an exercise price of not less than 100% of the fair
market value per share at date of grant. Options generally expire ten years after
date of grant and become exercisable in equal installments over two to four
years. Additionally, during 2006 shareholders approved the Griffon Corporation
2006 Equity Incentive Plan ( Incentive Plan ) under which awards of performance
shares, performance units, stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
shares and deferred shares may be granted. The maximum number of shares of
common stock available for award under the Incentive Plan is 1,700,000. Transactions
under the stock options plans are as follows:  

During 2006, 25,000 options were issued under the Incentive
Plan at an average exercise price of $24.31 and none were forfeited or
exercised during the year. Also, the company awarded approximately 309,000
shares of restricted stock under the Incentive Plan. Approximately 44,000
shares of the restricted stock awarded vests over three years with the
remaining awards vesting over five years. The weighted average grant-date fair
value of the restricted stock awards was $7,413,000. None of the restricted
stock awards were forfeited or vested at September 30, 2006. The number of
shares available under the Incentive   

44     

Plan is reduced by a
factor of two to one for awards other than stock options. If the remaining
shares available under the Incentive Plan were awarded through stock options,
approximately 1,056,000 shares would be issued or if the remaining shares were
awarded as restricted stock approximately 528,000 shares would be issued.  

  The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised
was approximately $11,818,000, $24,746,000 and $16,561,000 in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. At September 30, 2006 the total compensation cost
related to nonvested awards not recognized was $9,785,000 which is expected to
be recognized over a weighted average period of 4.1 years.  

  At September 30,
2006 option groups outstanding and exercisable are as follows:  

Approximately 2,612,000, 3,331,000 and 5,217,000
exercisable options with weighted average exercise prices of $12.81, $11.95 and
$10.88 were outstanding at September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  

  Additionally, in 2005 an option to purchase 250,000
shares of common stock at $22.94 per share was granted to an executive officer
of the company, which was not under a stock option plan. The option vested
immediately, has a seven year life and is exercisable 50% after one year and
100% after two years.  

  For the year ended September 30, 2006, the
company recognized $1,711,000 of stock-based compensation. For the years ended September 30,
2005 and 2004, the company elected to account for stock-based compensation
under Opinion No. 25. Accordingly, no compensation expense had been
recognized in connection with options granted.  

45  

Had
compensation expense for options granted been determined based on the fair
value at the date of grant in accordance with Statement No. 123, the
company s net income and earnings per share would have been as follows:  

The fair value of options granted is estimated on the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted
average fair values of options granted in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were
$13.25, $9.06 and $10.35, respectively, based upon the following weighted
average assumptions: expected volatility (.365 in 2006, .374 in 2005 and .380
in 2004), risk-free interest rate (5.02% in 2006, 4.03% in 2005 and 3.99% in
2004), expected life (7 years in 2006, 6.2 years in 2005 and 7 years in 2004),
and expected dividend yield (0% in 2006, 2005 and 2004).  

  The company has an Outside Director Stock Award Plan
(the  Outside Director Plan ), which was approved by the shareholders in 1994,
under which 330,000 shares may be issued to non-employee directors. Annually,
each eligible director is awarded shares of the company s Common Stock having a
value of $10,000 which vests over a three-year period.  

  For shares issued under the Outside Director Plan, the
fair market value of the shares at the date of issuance is recognized as
compensation expense over the vesting period. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, 5,004,
4,246, and 4,650 shares, respectively, were issued under the Outside Director
Plan.  

  As of September 30, 2006, a total of
approximately 4,700,000 shares of the company s authorized Common Stock were
reserved for issuance in connection with stock compensation plans.  

  On May 9, 2006 the company s shareholder rights
plan expired according to its terms and was not replaced.  

  A wholly-owned subsidiary
of the company has a lease agreement that limits dividends and advances it may
pay to the parent company. The agreement permits the payment of income taxes
based on a tax sharing arrangement, and dividends based on a percentage of the
subsidiary s net income. At September 30, 2006 the subsidiary had net
assets of approximately $427,000,000.  

   NOTE 4 PENSION
PLANS:     

  The company has pension plans that cover substantially
all employees, most of which are defined contribution plans. Company
contributions to the defined contribution plans are generally based upon
various percentages of compensation, and aggregated $8,400,000 in 2006,
$8,600,000 in 2005 and $7,100,000 in 2004. The company also has defined benefit
pension plans covering certain employees.  

  The company has accounted for and disclosed
information about its defined benefit pension plans pursuant to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 87 ( SFAS 87 ) and  Employers    

46     

Accounting for Pensions, 
SFAS No. 132(R),  Employers  Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits.   In September 2006
the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,  which
amends SFAS No. s 87 and 132(R). (See Note 1.)  

  Plan
assets and benefit obligations of the defined benefit plans are as follows:  

Net
periodic pension cost for the defined benefit plans was as follows:  

47     

The
following actuarial assumptions were used for the company s defined benefit
pension plans:  

The company expects to contribute approximately
$3,600,000 to the defined benefits plans in fiscal 2007 and expected benefit
payments under the defined benefit plans at September 30, 2006 are
$2,391,000 in 2007, $4,188,000 in 2008, $4,681,000 in 2009, $4,709,000 in 2010,
$4,804,000 in 2011 and $25,650,000 in the years 2012 to 2016.  

  At September 30,
2006 and 2005, the asset allocation percentage of the defined benefit plans was
as follows:  

The company s investment strategy for defined benefit plan
assets is designed to achieve long-term investment objectives and minimize
related investment risk. The investment strategy is reviewed annually. Equity
securities consist principally of domestic stocks and debt securities consist
of investment grade bonds. The expected rate of return on plan assets is based
on the defined benefit plans  asset allocations, investment strategy and
consultation with third-party investment managers.  

  The company has an
Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ) that covers substantially all employees.
Shares of the ESOP which have been allocated to employee accounts are charged
to expense based on the fair value of the shares transferred and are treated as
outstanding in earnings per share calculations. Compensation expense under the
ESOP was $849,000 in 2006, $916,000 in 2005 and $832,000 in 2004. The cost of
shares held by the ESOP and not yet allocated to employees is reported as a
reduction of shareholders  equity.  

   NOTE 5 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:   

  The company and its subsidiaries rent real property
and equipment under operating leases expiring at various dates. Most of the
real property leases have escalation clauses related to increases in real
property taxes.  

  Future
minimum payments under noncancellable operating leases consisted of the
following at September 30, 2006:  

48     

Rent expense for all operating leases totaled
approximately $36,700,000, $35,700,000 and $31,400,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  

  The company is subject to
various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and
is a party to legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business.
Under a Consent Order entered into with the New York State Department of
Environmental Conservation, a subsidiary of the company has performed remedial
investigations at a site in Peekskill, New York which was sold in 1982. Based
on facts presently known to it, the company believes that the resolution of
such matters will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated
financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  

   NOTE 6 QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED):   

  Quarterly
results of operations for the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 are
as follows:  

(1)             Earnings
per share are computed independently for each of the quarters presented on the
basis described in Note 1. The sum of the quarters may not be equal to the full
year earnings per share amounts. 

   NOTE 7 BUSINESS
SEGMENTS:     

  The company s reportable business segments are as
follows Garage Doors (manufacture and sale of residential and
commercial/industrial garage doors, and related products); Installation
Services (sale and installation of building products, primarily for new
construction, such as garage doors, garage door openers, manufactured
fireplaces and surrounds, cabinets and flooring); Electronic Information and
Communication Systems (communication and information systems for government and
commercial markets); and Specialty Plastic Films (manufacture and sale of
plastic films and film laminates for baby diapers, adult incontinence care
products, disposable surgical and patient care products and plastic packaging).
The company s reportable segments are distinguished from each other by types of
products and services offered, classes of customers, production and distribution
methods, and separate management.  

49  

The company evaluates performance and allocates
resources based on operating results before interest income or expense, income
taxes and certain nonrecurring items of income or expense. The accounting
policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in the
summary of significant accounting policies, including the use of the percentage
of completion method of accounting by the Electronic Information and
Communication Systems segment (see Note 1). Intersegment sales are based on
prices negotiated between the segments, and intersegment sales and profits are
not eliminated in evaluating performance of a segment.  

  Information
on the company s business segments is as follows:  

Goodwill at September 30, 2006 includes
approximately $12,900,000 attributable to the garage doors segment, $19,400,000
in the electronic information and communication systems segment and $67,200,000
in the specialty plastic films segment.  

50     

Following
are reconciliations of segment profit, assets, capital expenditures and
depreciation and amortization expense to amounts reported in the consolidated
financial statements:  

(1)             Includes pre-tax gain in
2005 of $3.7 million on sale of land and building. 

  Revenues,
based on the customers  locations, and property, plant and equipment attributed
to the United States and all other countries are as follows:  

Sales to a customer of the
specialty plastic films segment were approximately $226,000,000 in 2006,
$255,000,000 in 2005 and $302,000,000 in 2004. Sales to the United States
Government and its agencies, either as a prime contractor or subcontractor,
aggregated approximately $282,000,000 in 2006, $114,000,000 in 2005 and
$132,000,000 in 2004, all of which are included in the electronic information
and communication systems segment. Unallocated amounts include general corporate
expenses and assets, which consist mainly of cash, investments, and other
assets not attributable to any reportable segment.  

51     

Item 9.                             Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure    

  Not applicable.  

   Item 9A.                     Controls and Procedures    

   Evaluation and
Disclosure Controls and Procedures     

  The company s management,
with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the company s disclosure controls and procedures, as required by
Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based on that evaluation, the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the
end of the period covered by this report, the company s disclosure controls and
procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed
by the company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act
is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified
by the SEC s rules and forms and such information is accumulated and
communicated to management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosures.  

   Management s Report
on Internal Control over Financial Reporting     

  The company s management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. The company s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed under the supervision of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of the company s financial statements for
external reporting in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. Management evaluates the effectiveness of the
company s internal control over financial reporting using the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Management, under the
supervision and with the participation of the company s Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, assessed the effectiveness of the company s
internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 and concluded
that it is effective.  

  The company s independent
registered public accounting firm, Grant Thornton LLP, has audited the
effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting and
management s assessment of the effectiveness of the company s internal control
over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, and has expressed
unqualified opinions in their report which appears in this Form 10-K.  

   Changes in Internal
Controls     

  There were no changes in
the company s internal control over financial reporting identified in
connection with the evaluation referred to above that occurred during the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

   Limitations on the
Effectiveness Controls     

  The company believes that
a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, cannot provide
absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system are met, and no
evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all controls issues
and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected. The
company s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable
assurance of achieving their objectives and the company s chief executive
officer and chief financial officer have concluded that such controls and
procedures are effective at the  reasonable assurance  level.  

52     

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  Board of Directors and
Shareholders 
Griffon Corporation  

  We have audited
management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Griffon Corporation (a Delaware
corporation) and subsidiaries (the  Company ) maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on
criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO
criteria). The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting based
on our audit.  

  We conducted our audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.  

  A company s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  

  Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  In our opinion,
management s assessment that Griffon Corporation and subsidiaries maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria.
Also, in our opinion, Griffon Corporation and subsidiaries maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2006, based on the COSO criteria.  

  We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of
September 30, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income,
shareholders  equity and cash flows for the year then ended and our report
dated December 13, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  

53     

Item 9B.                    Other Information    

  None  

   PART III     

  The information required
by Part III (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14) is incorporated by reference to
the company s definitive proxy statement in connection with its Annual Meeting
of Stockholders scheduled to be held in February, 2007, to be filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission within 120 days following the end of the company s
fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. Information relating to the
executive officers of the Registrant appears under Item 1 of this report.  

54  

PART IV     

   Item 15.                      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    

  The
following consolidated financial statements of Griffon Corporation and
subsidiaries are included in Item 8:  

55     

56     

10.21 

Employment Agreement
  dated as of March 1, 2005 between the Registrant and Eric Edelstein (Exhibit
  10.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 1, 2005 (Commission File No. 1-06620))  

14  

Code of Ethics for Senior
  Financial Officers (Exhibit 14 to Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for the year ended September 30, 2003 (Commission File No. 1-06620))  

21  

The following lists the
  company s significant subsidiaries all of which are wholly-owned by the
  company. The names of certain subsidiaries which do not, when considered in
  the aggregate, constitute a significant subsidiary, have been omitted.  

Name of Subsidiary   

State of 
  Incorporation   

Clopay Corporation  

Delaware  

Telephonics Corporation  

Delaware  

23* 

Consent of Grant Thornton LLP  

23.1*  

Consent of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

31.1*  

Certification of Chief
  Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act  

31.2*  

Certification of Chief
  Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act  

32*  

Certification of Chief
  Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 18 USC
  Section 1350.  

*                       Filed
herewith. All other exhibits are incorporated herein by reference to the
exhibit indicated in the parenthetical references. 

  The following
undertakings are incorporated into the company s Registration Statements on Form S-8
(Registration Nos. 33-39090, 33-62966, 33-52319, 333-21503,
333-62319, 333-84409, 333-67760, 333-88422, 333-102742,
333-131737 and 333-133833).  

  (a)   The
undersigned registrant hereby undertakes:  

  (1)   To file,
during any period in which offers or sales are being made, a post-effective
amendment to this registration statement:  

  (i)    To include
any prospectus required by Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act of
1933;  

  (ii)   To reflect
in the prospectus any facts or events arising after the effective date of the
registration statement (or the most recent post-effective amendment
thereof) which, individually or in the aggregate, represent a fundamental
change in the information set forth in the registration statement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any increase or decrease in volume of securities
offered (if the total dollar value of securities offered would not exceed that
which was registered) and any deviation from the low or high end of the
estimated maximum offering range may be reflected in the form of prospectus
filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) if, in the
aggregate, the changes in volume and price represent no more than 20 percent
change in the maximum aggregate offering price set forth in the  Calculation of
Registration Fee  table in the effective registration statement.  

  (iii)  To include
any material information with respect to the plan of distribution not
previously disclosed in the registration statement or any material change to
such information in the registration statement;  

57     

Provided, however, that paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and
(a)(1)(ii) do not apply if the registration statement is on Form S-3,
Form S-8 or Form F-3, and the information required to be
included in a post-effective amendment by those paragraphs is contained
in periodic reports filed with or furnished to the Commission by the registrant
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 that are incorporated by reference in the registration
statement.  

  (2)   That, for
the purpose of determining any liability under the Securities Act of 1933, each
such post-effective amendment shall be deemed to be a new registration
statement relating to the securities offered therein, and the offering of such
securities at that time shall be deemed to be the initial bona fide offering
thereof.  

  (3)   To remove
from registration by means of a post-effective amendment any of the
securities being registered which remain unsold at the termination of the
offering.  

  (b)   The
undersigned registrant hereby undertakes that, for purposes of determining any
liability under the Securities Act of 1933, each filing of the registrant s
annual report pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (and, where applicable, each filing of an
employee benefit plan s annual report pursuant to Section 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that is incorporated by reference in the
registration statement shall be deemed to be a new registration statement
relating to the securities offered therein, and the offering of such securities
at that time shall be deemed to be the initial bona fide offering thereof.  

  (c)   Insofar as
indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act of 1933 may be
permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of the registrant
pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the registrant has been
advised that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission such
indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Act and is,
therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for indemnification against
such liabilities (other than the payment by the registrant of expenses incurred
or paid by a director, officer or controlling person of the registrant in the
successful defense of any action, suit or proceeding) is asserted by such
director, officer or controlling person in connection with the securities being
registered, the registrant will, unless in the opinion of its counsel the
matter has been settled by controlling precedent, submit to a court of
appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such indemnification by it is
against public policy as expressed in the Act and will be governed by the final
adjudication of such issue.  

58  

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on the 14  th  day of December 2006. 

GRIFFON CORPORATION  

By:  

/s/ HARVEY R.
  BLAU  

Harvey
  R. Blau,  

Chairman of the Board and 
  Chief Executive Officer   

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below on December 14, 2006 by the following persons in the
capacities indicated:  

/s/ HARVEY R. BLAU 

Chairman
  of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

Harvey
  R. Blau  

(Principal Executive
  Officer)  

/s/ ERIC
  EDELSTEIN  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

Eric
  Edelstein  

(Principal Financial and
  Accounting Officer)  

/s/ PATRICK L.
  ALESIA  

Vice President , Secretary and Treasurer  

Patrick
  L. Alesia  

/s/ HENRY A.
  ALPERT  

Director  

Henry
  A. Alpert  

/s/ BERTRAND
  M. BELL  

Director  

Bertrand
  M. Bell  

/s/ BLAINE V.
  FOGG  

Director  

Blaine
  V. Fogg  

/s/ ROBERT
  HARRISON  

Director  

Robert
  Harrison  

/s/ CLARENCE
  A. HILL, JR.  

Director  

Clarence
  A. Hill, Jr.  

/s/ RONALD J.
  KRAMER  

Director  

Ronald
  J. Kramer  

/s/ DONALD J.
  KUTYNA  

Director  

Donald
  J. Kutyna  

/s/ JAMES W.
  STANSBERRY  

Director  

James
  W. Stansberry  

/s/ MARTIN S.
  SUSSMAN  

Director  

Martin
  S. Sussman  

/s/ WILLIAM H.
  WALDORF  

Director  

William
  H. Waldorf  

/s/ JOSEPH J.
  WHALEN  

Director  

Joseph
  J. Whalen  

/s/ LESTER L.
  WOLFF  

Director  

Lester
  L. Wolff  

59  

GRIFFON CORPORATION   
SCHEDULE I CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
BALANCE SHEETS SEPTEMBER 30, 2006 AND 2005   

S-  1  

GRIFFON CORPORATION 
SCHEDULE I CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued) 
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,   

S-  1  a  

GRIFFON CORPORATION 
SCHEDULE I CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued) 
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,   

S-  1  b  

GRIFFON CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARIES   
SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2006, 2005 AND 2004   

(1)             Reclassifications from
other balance sheet accounts and bad debt recoveries. 

S-  2  

EXHIBIT
INDEX     

Name of Subsidiary 

State of 
  Incorporation   

Clopay Corporation  

Delaware  

Telephonics Corporation  

Delaware  

23* 

Consent of Grant
  Thornton LLP  

23.1*  

Consent of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

31.1*  

Certification of Chief
  Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act  

31.2*  

Certification of Chief
  Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act  

32*  

Certification of Chief
  Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 18 USC
  Section 1350.  

*                       Filed
herewith. All other exhibits are incorporated herein by reference to the
exhibit indicated in the parenthetical references. 

<EX-10.3>
 2
 a06-25388_1ex10d3.htm
 EX-10

Exhibit 10.3   

EXECUTION COPY  

TRUST AGREEMENT   

  THIS TRUST AGREEMENT made this 2  nd  day of October, 2006, by and among Griffon
Corporation, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter referred to as  Company ,
which term shall include all successors and/or related entities thereto which
have adopted the Griffon Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the  Plan )
and/or agreed to be bound by this Trust Agreement) and Wachovia Bank, National
Association as directed trustee ( Directed Trustee ). 

   W    I    T    N    E    S 
 S    E    T    H : 

  WHEREAS, Company this day maintains the Plan for its employees; and  

  WHEREAS, the Plan is designed to invest primarily in
the stock of the Company, and is intended to be an employee stock ownership
plan under Section 4975(e)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
( Code ) and under Section 407(d)(6) of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ).  

  WHEREAS, Company desires to establish a Trust Fund (as defined in
Section 1.1 below) and to appoint Wachovia Bank, National Association to serve
as Directed Trustee of the Trust Fund to hold and administer property
contributed by the Company (and the income thereon) pursuant to the terms of
the Plan and this Trust Agreement.  

  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and
the mutual covenants herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby,
it is agreed by and between the Company and the Directed Trustee as follows:  

   ARTICLE I   

   ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TRUST
FUND   

  1.1                                                                                     (a)           The Company hereby establishes with
the Directed Trustee a trust consisting of such sums of money or property as
shall from time to time be paid to the Directed Trustee under the Plan, and
such earnings, profits, increments, additions and appreciation thereto and
thereon as may accrue from time to time. 
All such sums of money, all investments made therewith or proceeds
thereof, and all earnings, profits, increments, appreciation and additions
thereto and thereon, less the payments which shall have been made by the
Directed Trustee, as authorized herein, to carry out the Plan, are referred to
herein as the  Trust Fund .  

  (b)           The Directed Trustee agrees to perform the duties and
obligations imposed by this Trust Agreement. 
No duties or obligations shall be imposed upon the Directed Trustee with
respect to the Trust Fund unless undertaken by the Directed Trustee under the
express terms of this Trust Agreement unless imposed upon the Directed Trustee
by law.  The Directed Trustee is not
responsible for any matter affecting the administration of the Plan by the
Company, the Committee (as defined in Section 1.7 below), or any other person
or persons to whom responsibility for administration of the Plan is delegated
pursuant to the terms of the Plan.  The
Directed Trustee shall have no duty or obligation to advise Participants or
Beneficiaries as to the effect of federal or state securities laws on the Plan,
the Trust Fund or any distributions therefrom.  

  1.2           The Directed Trustee
shall not be responsible for the collection of any funds required by the Plan
to be paid by the Company to the Directed Trustee, nor shall the Directed
Trustee be responsible for ensuring the timely payment of contributions.  The Directed Trustee is not obligated to see
that funds deposited with it are deposited according to the provisions of the
Plan.  

1.3           It shall be the duty
of the Directed Trustee hereunder:  

  (a)           To hold, invest, and reinvest the
Trust Fund, as provided in Article II, and to manage, and administer the Trust
Fund.  

  (b)           From time to time, on the written
direction of the Plan Administrator (as defined in Section 1.7 below), to make
payments out of the Trust Fund to such persons, in such manner, in such
amounts, and for such purposes as may be specified in such written
direction.  The Directed Trustee shall be
under no liability for any payment made by it pursuant to such a direction, unless it is clear on the direction s face
that the actions to be taken under the direction would be prohibited by ERISA
or would be contrary to the terms of this Trust Agreement or applicable federal
law.  

  1.4           The Directed Trustee may refuse to accept any property
which it, in its sole discretion, deems unacceptable.  

  1.5           The
Directed Trustee shall rely upon the determination of the Plan Administrator
that all assets received by it are properly contributed or transferred to the
Trust Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Plan.  Such assets shall be in cash or in such other
form as may be acceptable to the Directed Trustee, but shall not include any
real property or any interest in real property, or any other assets deemed
unacceptable by the Directed Trustee. The Directed Trustee s acceptance of any
Plan asset previously held by another trustee or fiduciary pursuant to the Plan
shall not make the Directed Trustee liable for the propriety of the purchase or
retention of such asset.  The Company
shall place those assets which are unacceptable to the Directed Trustee with
another trustee under a separate trust agreement or shall retain such assets in
the Company s or other appropriate party s custody.  The Directed Trustee shall have no
responsibility for such assets deemed unacceptable to the Directed Trustee and
not held in the Trust Fund.  

  1.6           The Company hereby
certifies that:  

  (a)            The Company has
established and will maintain the Plan in compliance in all material respects
with the qualification requirements of Section 401(a) of the Code and shall
promptly notify the Directed Trustee of any change in such qualified status.  

  (b)           The terms of the
Plan provide for the creation of a trust agreement and the appointment of a
trustee.  

  (c)            The Company is the
Plan Sponsor and has the authority to act for all participating employers
designated under the Plan, if any, with respect to the execution of this Trust
Agreement.  

  1.7.          As used in this Trust Agreement, the term  Plan
Administrator  or  Committee  means the committee so designated in accordance
with the terms of the Plan by the Company from time to time, or, if no such
Committee is so designated, such term shall mean the Company. The Company shall
provide the Directed Trustee the names and signatures of the individuals
designated as the Plan Administrator who shall be authorized to instruct the
Directed Trustee under this Trust Agreement. 
The Company shall promptly give written notice to the Directed Trustee
of a change in the identity or duties of a Plan Administrator.  Until such written notice is received by the
Directed Trustee, the Directed Trustee shall be fully protected in assuming
that the designated individuals are authorized to act as Plan Administrators.  

2     

1.8           The members of the Committee,
collectively and individually, shall be the named fiduciaries of the trust for
purposes of Section 402 of ERISA, except that, (i) solely to the extent that
any rights attributable to Employer Securities (as defined below) may be
exercised by Participants or their Beneficiaries, each Participant and
Beneficiary also shall be a named fiduciary with respect to the exercise of
voting and tender or exchange offer rights for Employer Securities held in such
Participant or Beneficiary s Account and (ii) with respect to all other
situations relating to the exercise of voting and tender or exchange offer
rights for Employer Securities held in a Participant s or Beneficiary s
Account, the Directed Trustee shall be the named fiduciary.  

ARTICLE II   

   INVESTMENT OF THE TRUST FUND   

  2.1           The Directed Trustee shall invest and reinvest the
principal and income of the Trust Fund pursuant to the written, telephone or
computer generated direction of the Company, the  Named Fiduciary  (as
authorized under the Plan document), or a Plan Participant (if permitted under
the Plan document), or by any other party to whom authority to give such
directions, requests or approvals is delegated by the Company and keep the same
invested without distinction between principal and income.  The Directed Trustee shall not make any
determination which shall cause it to be deemed a  Fiduciary  (as defined under
Section 3(21) of ERISA) under the Plan with regard to such investment or
reinvestment.  

  Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the primary purpose of the Plan is to
acquire an ownership interest in the Company either from the Company or its
shareholders and to provide deferred compensation benefits to Participants and
Beneficiaries in the form of shares of Employer Securities.  Accordingly, the Plan has been established to
provide for investment primarily in shares of Employer Securities.  In furtherance of the purpose for which the
Plan has been established and designed, the Trustee shall, in accordance with
the terms of the Plan, (a) make payments from the Trust Fund in accordance with
directions from the Committee as required under the terms of any existing
Acquisition Loan and as permissible by law, (b) hold unallocated shares of
Employer Securities which have been acquired with the proceeds of an
Acquisition Loan in a Loan Suspense Account for release and allocation to the
Accounts of Participants, (c) hold shares of Employer Securities which have
been contributed by the Employer and (d) distribute to Participants or their
Beneficiaries under the terms of the Plan all shares of Employer Securities and
other assets which have been allocated to the Accounts of such Participants
pursuant to the terms of the Plan in accordance with the terms of the Plan,
notwithstanding any otherwise applicable fiduciary standard relating to (i)
diversification of Trust Fund assets, (ii) the speculative character of Trust
Fund investments, (iii) the lack or inadequacy of income provided by Trust Fund
assets, or (iv) the probable continual fluctuation in the fair market value of
Trust Fund assets.  Subject to the
provisions of the Plan, the Trustee is expressly authorized, in accordance with
the terms of the Plan, to hold 100% of the assets of the Trust Fund in shares
of Employer Securities.  

  The
term  Employer Securities  shall mean common stock issued by the Company (or by
a corporation which is a member of the same controlled group as defined in
Section 409(l)(4) of the Code) which is readily traded on an established
securities market which constitute qualifying employer securities within the
meaning of Section 407(d) of ERISA.  

  The term  Acquisition Loan 
shall mean any loan to a prior trustee by a disqualified person or party in
interest (within the meaning of the Code or ERISA as applicable) used to
finance the acquisition of Employer Securities. 
The Directed Trustee shall be entitled to rely, without inquiry, that
the terms and conditions of such Acquisition Loan satisfy the requirements of
the Code and ERISA.    The Company and the Committee have
directed the Directed Trustee to accept and comply with the terms of any
Acquisition Loan and related guaranty and pledge agreements.  

3     

2.2           The Directed Trustee
shall have the following powers in addition to the powers customarily vested in
trustees by law and in no way in derogation thereof:  

  (a)           With any cash at any time held by
them, to purchase or subscribe for any Employer Securities and Authorized
Investment (as defined below), and to retain such Employer Securities or
Authorized Investment in trust.  

  (b)           To sell for cash or on credit,
convert, redeem, exchange for another Authorized Investment, or otherwise
dispose of, any Authorized Investment at any time held by it.  

  (c)           To retain uninvested all or any part
of the Trust Fund and to deposit the same in an interest-bearing account
in any banking or savings institution including Directed Trustee s savings
department, in accordance with and as directed in writing by the Company or its
authorized representative.  

  (d)           To exercise any option appurtenant to
any Authorized Investment in which the Trust Fund is invested for conversion
thereof into another Authorized Investment, or to exercise any rights to
subscribe for additional Authorized Investments and to make all necessary payments
therefor, in accordance with and as directed in writing by the Company or its
authorized representative.  

  (e)           Pursuant to the written direction of
the Company or its authorized representative, to join in, consent to, dissent
from, or oppose, the reorganization, recapitalization, consolidation, sale,
merger, foreclosure, or readjustment of the finances of any corporations or
properties in which the Trust Fund may be invested, or the sale, mortgage,
pledge or lease of any such property or the property of any such corporation
upon such terms and conditions as it may deem wise; to do any act (including
the exercise of options, making of agreements or subscriptions, and payment of
expenses, assessments, or subscriptions) which may be deemed necessary or advisable
in connection therewith; and to accept any Authorized Investment which may be
issued in or as a result of any such proceeding, and thereafter to hold the
same.  

  (f)            To vote, in person
or by general or limited proxy, at any election of any corporation (other than
the Company) in which the Trust Fund is invested, and similarly to exercise,
personally or by a general or limited power of attorney, any right appurtenant
to any Authorized Investment held in the Trust Fund, in accordance with and as
directed in writing by the Company or its authorized representative.  Except as otherwise required by ERISA or regulations
thereunder, or the Code or regulations thereunder, all voting rights of
Employer Securities held by the Trust Fund, and all rights to sell or otherwise
tender Employer Securities held by the Trust Fund, shall be exercised by the
Trustee in accordance with the directions of the Participants and Beneficiaries
as provided in the Plan (as in effect on the date of this Trust Agreement or as
thereafter amended with the consent of the Directed Trustee, which consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld). 
Anything in this Trust Agreement or in the Plan to the contrary
notwithstanding, proceeds of any unallocated Employer Securities tendered by
the Trustee shall be reinvested in Employer Securities.  

  (g)           To
make payments from the Trust Fund in accordance with directions from the
Committee as required under the terms of any Acquisition Loan and as
permissible by law.  

4     

(h)           To purchase Employer Securities and Authorized
Investments at a premium or discount in accordance with and as directed in
writing by the Company or its authorized representative.  

  (i)            To employ suitable agents,
sub-custodians, actuaries, accountants, investment advisors or managers and
counsel and to pay their reasonable expenses and compensation.  

  (j)            To cause any investment in the Trust
Fund to be registered in, or transferred into, its name as Directed Trustee or
the name of its nominee or nominees or to retain them unregistered or in form permitting
transfer by delivery, but the books and records of the Directed Trustee shall
at all times show that all such investments are part of the Trust Fund, and the
Directed Trustee shall be fully responsible for any misappropriation or
defalcation in respect of any investment held by its nominee or held in
unregistered form and shall cause the indicia of ownership to be maintained
within the jurisdiction of the district courts of the United States.  

  (k)           To do all acts which it may deem
necessary or proper and to exercise any and all powers of the Directed Trustee
under this Trust Agreement upon such terms and conditions which it may deem are
for the best interests of the Trust Fund.  

  2.3            Authorized Investment  as used in this Article II shall
mean bonds, debentures, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness; stocks
(regardless of class), or other evidences of ownership, in any corporation,
mutual investment fund, put or call options traded on a national exchange,
common or collective trust fund, pooled investment fund, investment company,
association, or business trust; life insurance, retirement income or annuity
contracts. Employer Securities shall be excluded from the term Authorized
Investment.  Authorized Investments  shall not be limited to that class of
investments which are defined as legal investments for trust funds under the
laws of North Carolina or of any other jurisdiction.  

  2.4         If investment of the
Trust Fund is to be directed in whole or in part by an Investment Manager, the
Plan Administrator shall deliver satisfactory evidence to the Directed Trustee
that:  

  (a)            The applicable
Investment Advisor has delivered a statement acknowledging that it is an
Investment Advisor and fiduciary of the Plan;  

  (b)           The Investment
Advisor is currently a registered investment adviser under the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 or otherwise qualifies as an investment manager described
in Section 3(38) of ERISA; and  

  (c)            The Investment
Advisor has accepted appointment as an Investment Manager to the Trust Fund.  

  The Directed Trustee shall be entitled to
rely entirely, without any independent investigation, upon such documents until
such time as it is otherwise notified in writing.  The Plan Administrator shall promptly deliver
to the Directed Trustee prior written notice of the removal or replacement of
any Investment Advisor.  Notwithstanding
any provision of this Trust Agreement to the contrary, the Directed Trustee
shall not be entitled to rely on any direction that is clear on its face that
the actions to be taken under the direction would be prohibited by ERISA or
would be contrary to the terms of this Trust Agreement or applicable federal
law .   

5     

ARTICLE III  

   ACCOUNTS TO BE KEPT AND
RENDERED BY THE DIRECTED TRUSTEE   

  3.1           The Directed Trustee shall keep accurate and detailed
accounts of all investments, receipts and disbursements and other transactions
hereunder, including such specific records as shall be required by law and such
additional records as may be agreed upon in writing between the Company and the
Directed Trustee.  All accounts, books
and records relating thereto shall be open to inspection and audit by any
person or persons designated by the Plan Administrator or the Company, at all
reasonable times.  

  3.2           Within ninety (90) days following the close of each year of
the Plan or the receipt of the Company s contribution for such year, whichever
is later, or within ninety (90) days following the Directed Trustee s
resignation or removal under Article IV of this Trust Agreement, the Directed
Trustee shall file with the Plan Administrator a written account, setting forth
all investments, receipts and disbursements, and other transactions effected by
it during such year of the Plan or during the period from the close of the last
preceding year of the Plan to the date of such removal or resignation,
including a description of all securities and investments purchased and sold
with the cost or net proceeds of such purchases or sales, and showing all cash,
securities and other property held at the end of such year or as of the date of
removal or resignation, as the case may be. 
Neither the Company nor the Plan Administrator nor any other person
shall have the right to demand or to be entitled to any further or different
accounting by the Directed Trustee, except as may be required by statute or by
regulations published by federal government agencies with respect to reporting
and disclosure.  

  3.3           Each report
submitted pursuant to Section 3.2 shall be promptly examined by the
Committee.  If the Committee approves of
such report, then except with respect to acts or omissions constituting willful
misconduct, bad faith, breach of applicable law or breach of fiduciary duty, upon
the expiration of ninety (90) days from the date of filing of such annual or
other account, the Directed Trustee shall be forever released from any
liability of accountability with respect to the propriety of any of its
accounts or transactions so reported, as if such account had been settled by
judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction in which the Directed
Trustee, the Committee, the Company, and all persons having or claiming any
interest in the Trust Fund were made parties, except with respect to any acts
or transactions as to which (a) the
Plan Administrator shall within such ninety-day period file with the
Directed Trustee a written statement claiming negligence or (b) the Company could not reasonably be
expected to have recognized after reviewing such accounting.  The foregoing, however, is not to be construed
to deprive the Directed Trustee of the right to have its account judicially
settled if it so desires.  

  3.4           The
Committee may approve of any report furnished by the Directed Trustee under
Section 3.2 either by written statement of approval furnished to the Directed
Trustee or shall be deemed to have approved of any such report by failure to
file a written objection to the report with the Directed Trustee within 90 days
of the date on which the Committee receives such report.  The Committee may disapprove of any report
furnished by the Directed Trustee under Section 3.2 by written statement of
disapproval furnished to the Directed Trustee setting forth the reason for such
disapproval (a  Notice of Disapproval ). 
In such event the Directed Trustee shall amend such report with due
regard for the Committee s reasons for such disapproval and submit such amended
report to the Company for its approval or disapproval within thirty (30) days
following its receipt of such Notice of Disapproval.  The Committee shall not be liable to any
person for its approval, disapproval or failure to approve any such report
rendered by the Directed Trustee.  

6     

ARTICLE
IV   

   THE DIRECTED TRUSTEE   

  4.1           The Directed Trustee accepts the Trust Fund hereby created
and agrees to perform the duties hereby required by it, subject, however, to
the following conditions:  

  (a)           The Directed Trustee and its
officers, directors, employees, agents and affiliates, shall not be liable for
losses of any kind which may result (1) by reason of any action taken by it in
accordance with the directions or instructions of the Company or the Plan
Administrator or otherwise required to be taken in accordance with this Trust
Agreement; provided, however, that the Directed Trustee must not act upon any direction
that is clear on its face that the actions to be taken under the direction
would be prohibited by ERISA or would be contrary to the terms of this Trust
Agreement or applicable federal law, (2) by reason of any failure to act due to
the absence of such directions or instructions, or (3) by reason of any actions
taken by any other trustee, custodian, or fiduciary, whether previous or
current, acting on behalf of the Plan. 
The Directed Trustee has no duty to perform any action other than those
specified herein.  

  (b)           The Directed Trustee shall receive as
compensation for its services such amounts as may be agreed upon at the time of
execution of this Trust Agreement,   subject to
change at any time and from time to time by agreement between the Company and
the Directed Trustee.  Except as
otherwise provided herein, the Directed Trustee s compensation and any other
proper expense of the Directed Trustee for the Trust Fund (unless payable out
of the Directed Trustee s compensation) including all real and personal
property taxes, income taxes, transfer taxes, and other taxes of any and all
kinds whatsoever that may be levied or assessed under existing or future laws
of any jurisdiction upon or in respect of the Trust Fund hereby created, or any
money, property or securities forming a part thereof shall be paid out of the
Trust Fund.  The Company shall have the
option, but not the obligation, to pay any such compensation and expenses
directly, in whole or in part, and by so doing, to relieve the Trust Fund from
the obligation of bearing such expenses.  

  (c)           The Directed Trustee
shall not be answerable for any action taken pursuant to any direction,
consent, request, or other paper or document on the belief that the same is
genuine and signed by the proper person if such direction, consent, request or
other paper or document relates to a matter with respect to which the purported
initiator or signatory has authority under the Plan.  If the Directed Trustee makes a written
request for directions from the Committee, the Directed Trustee may await such
directions without incurring liability. 
The Directed Trustee has no duty to act in the absence of such requested
directions, but may in its discretion take such action as it deems appropriate
to carry out the purposes of this Trust Agreement, without liability therefor.  

  (d)           The Company shall indemnify and hold
harmless the Directed Trustee from all loss or liability (includ  ing expenses and
reasonable attorneys  fees) to which the   Directed Trustee may be subject by reason of its
execution of its duties under this Trust Agreement, or by reason of any   acts taken in good
faith in accordance with directions,   or acts omitted in good faith due to absence of
directions, from the Committee unless such loss or liability   is due to the Directed
Trustee s negligence or willful misconduct.   The Directed Trustee is entitled to collect on
the indemnity provided by this Section 4.1(d) only from the Company and   is not entitled to any
direct or indirect   

7     

indemnity   payment from assets of the Trust Fund.  For purposes of subsection (d), negligence
shall be defined as acts or omissions that constitute a material departure from
standards   of
ordinary care.  

  In the event that the Directed Trustee is named as   a defendant in a
lawsuit or proceeding involving the Plan or the Trust Fund, the Directed Trustee
shall be entitled to   receive on a current basis the indemnity payments provid  ed for in this
Section.  If, however, the final judgment
entered in the lawsuit or proceeding holds that the Directed Trustee is guilty
of negligence or willful misconduct   with respect to one or more counts alleged against
it,   the
Directed Trustee shall refund the portion of the indemnity payments that are
reasonably allocable to the defense of those counts with respect to which the
Directed Trustee has been found to have committed acts of negligence or willful
  misconduct.  

   The
Directed Trustee may begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in
connection with the administration of the Plan, except that the Directed
Trustee is not obligated or required to do so unless indemnified to its
satisfaction against all expenses and liabilities which it may sustain or
reasonably anticipate by reason thereof. 
Anything hereinabove to the contrary notwithstanding, any obligation of  the
Company to indemnify and hold harmless the Directed Trustee pursuant to this
Section 4.1(d) shall be expressly conditioned on the Directed Trustee giving
prompt written notice to the Company of any proceeding for which
indemnification pursuant to this Section 4.1(d) will be requested and the
Directed Trustee giving the Company an opportunity to meaningfully participate
in the defense thereof and to approve any settlement thereof.  

   Notwithstanding any
provision of this Trust Agreement to the contrary, nothing shall be deemed to
limit the Company s rights against Directed Trustee for any breach of any term
of this Trust Agreement by Directed Trustee, including, without limitation, any
breach of a representation or warranty by Directed Trustee, or as a result of
Directed Trustee s  negligence, bad faith, fraud, willful misconduct,
breach of a fiduciary responsibility under ERISA or breach of this Trust
Agreement . 

  (e)           Neither Directed Trustee nor Company
shall be liable for any indirect, consequential, or special damages suffered by
any other person in connection herewith. 
The indemnification provisions under this Section 4.1 shall not apply
with respect to any dispute between the Company and the Directed Trustee.  The indemnification provisions under this
Section 4.1 and any other hold harmless provision in this Trust Agreement shall
survive the termination of this Trust Agreement.  

  4.2           Upon the appointment of the Plan Administrator and upon
any change in the Plan Administrator, the Company shall advise the Directed
Trustee in writing thereof, and the Directed Trustee shall be fully protected
in assuming that there has been no change until so advised by the Company.  

  4.3           Directed Trustee
acting hereunder may resign at any time by giving sixty (60) days  written
notice to the Plan Administrator.  The
Company may terminate the Directed Trustee at any time (i) without cause by
giving sixty (60) days  written notice to the Directed Trustee or (ii) for
cause upon written notice to the Directed Trustee.  Within forty-five (45) days of the date of
the notice of termination or resignation, the Company shall notify the Directed
Trustee in writing of the name of the successor trustee. The above
notwithstanding, resignation or termination may be made effective at any time
upon mutual consent of the parties. 
Except as otherwise provided in section 4.4, upon the effective date of
the resignation or removal of Directed Trustee, or upon the date on which there
is no longer any property hold under the Trust, if earlier, the Directed
Trustee shall be forever released and discharged from any liability or
accountability to anyone with respect to its actions as Directed Trustee.  

8     

4.4           Upon the appointment
of a successor trustee, the resigning or removed Directed Trustee shall
transfer and deliver the Trust Fund to such successor trustee after reserving
such reasonable amount as it shall deem necessary to provide for its expenses
in the settlement of its account, and any sums chargeable against the Trust
Fund for which it may be liable.  If the
sums so reserved are not sufficient for such purposes, the resigning or removed
Trustee shall be entitled to reimbursement for any deficiency from the
successor trustee and the Company who shall be jointly and severally liable
therefor.  If the sums so reserved exceed
the amount necessary for such purposes, the resigning or removed Trustee shall
promptly transfer and deliver such excess sums, with earnings thereon, to the
Trust Fund.  Upon the appointment of a
successor trustee, the resigning or removed Trustee shall transfer and deliver
to such successor trustee, within a reasonable period of time, all records
within its possession relevant to the continued performance of trustee
duties.  When the assets comprising the
Trust Fund, shall have been transferred and delivered to the successor trustee
or custodian, as applicable, the Directed Trustee shall be released and
discharged from all further accountability for the Trust Fund and shall not be
responsible in any way for the further disposition of the Trust Fund or any
part thereof.  

  4.5           Directed
Trustee shall not act, nor be under any obligation to act, absent direction of
the Company, Named Fiduciary or Plan Participant (as appropriate).  

   4.6 
          The Directed
Trustee shall discharge its duties under this Trust Agreement with the care,
skill, prudence and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing that a
prudent person acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would
use in the conduct of an enterprise of like character and with like aims,
consistent with the requirements of applicable law and in accordance with its
responsibilities under Section 403(a)(1) of ERISA. 

   ARTICLE
V   

   AMENDMENTS
TO TRUST AGREEMENT -   

   DISCONTINUANCE OF PLAN   

  5.1           The provisions of
this Trust Agreement may be amended at any time and from time to time by the
Company provided that: (a) no such amendment shall be effective unless the Plan
and the Trust Agreement, as so amended, shall be for the exclusive benefit of
the employees of the Company or their respective beneficiaries; (b) no such
amendment shall operate to deprive a Participant of any rights or benefits
irrevocably vested in him under the Plan or Trust Agreement prior to such
amendment; (c) no such amendment which may affect the Directed Trustee shall be
effective until the Directed Trustee has consented thereto; and (d) each such
amendment shall be effective when adopted by the Board of Directors of Company,
and filed with the Directed Trustee, except that where the consent of the
Directed Trustee is required, any such amendment shall not become effective
until the Directed Trustee has given its consent by approving the copy of the
amendment filed with it.  

9     

ARTICLE VI  

   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS   

  6.1           Any person dealing with the Directed Trustee may rely upon
a copy of this Trust Agreement and any amendments thereto, certified to be a
true and correct copy by any officer of the Directed Trustee.  

  6.2           Other than as provided in Section 4.1 and 6.3 hereof, in
no circumstance, whether upon amendment or termination of this Trust Agreement,
or otherwise, shall any part of the Trust Fund be used for or diverted to any
purposes other than (i) the exclusive benefit of employees of the Company who
are Participants under the Plan, or their beneficiaries, and (ii) defraying the
reasonable expenses of administering the Plan and the Trust Fund.  

  6.3           Neither this Trust Agreement nor the Plan shall prohibit
any of the following transactions, each of which is specifically authorized
hereby, to the extent permitted by Section 403(c) of ERISA:  

  (a)           The return to Company of all or any
part of one or more contributions made by Company by reason of a mistake of
fact if such return is made within one (1) year after the payment of such
contribution;  

  (b)           The return to Company of all or any
part of one or more contributions made by Company if all of the following
conditions apply: (i) the contribution was conditioned on the qualification of
the Plan under Section 401 of the Code, (ii) the Plan is found not to so
qualify, and (iii) the contribution(s) is/are returned to Company within one
(1) year of the date of denial of qualification of the Plan; and  

  (c)           The return to Company of any
contribution for which deduction is wholly or partially disallowed under
Section 404 of the Code, to the extent of such disallowances, if the (i)
contribution, when made, was conditioned upon its deductibility and (ii) the
return of the contribution occurs within one (1) year after the disallowance of
the deduction.  

  This Section 6.3 shall not be construed to permit any payment which
would deprive the Trust Fund of its tax-exempt status.  

  6.4           In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the
Plan and the Trust Agreement, the latter shall control.  

  6.5           The term  Plan  whenever used herein shall mean the Plan
as amended from time to time, and the Company will cause a copy of any
amendment or a copy of the Plan, as amended, revised or changed, in any way and
from time to time to be delivered to the Directed Trustee.  

  6.6           Any term used herein which is defined in the Plan shall be
considered to have the same meaning as in the Plan unless the contrary is
clearly indicated.  

  6.7           The
Company shall be responsible for timely filing all tax and information returns,
as well as all required descriptions, reports, and disclosures, relating to the
Plan and Trust.  

10     

6.8           Any notice or other
communication required or permitted to be given under this Trust Agreement (a  Notice )
shall be in writing and delivered in person, by facsimile transmission (with a
Notice contemporaneously given by another method specified in this Section
6.8), by overnight courier service or by postage prepaid mail with a return
receipt requested, at the following locations (or to such other address as
either party may have furnished to the other in writing by like Notice).  All such Notices shall only be duly given and
effective upon receipt (or refusal of receipt).  

6.9           This
Trust Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed an original and said counterparts shall constitute one and the
same instrument.  

  6.10         This
Trust Agreement shall be construed, enforced and regulated under federal law,
and to the extent (if any) not preempted thereby, under the laws of the State
of North Carolina.  

  6.11         This
Trust Agreement and the Plan contain the entire agreement and understanding of
the Company and the Directed Trustee with respect to the subject matter hereof
and supersede all prior agreements and understandings related to such subject
matter.  This Trust Agreement shall be
binding upon the parties hereto and their successors and assigns.  

  6.12         Any
provision of this Trust Agreement prohibited by law shall be ineffective to the
extent of any such prohibition, without invalidating the remaining provisions
hereof.  

  [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]  

11  

IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the Company and the Directed Trustee have caused this Trust Agreement
to be executed and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and
attested as of the day and year first above written.  

Wachovia Bank, National
  Association 

Griffon Corporation  

By:  

By:  

Name:  

Name: Patrick L. Alesia  

Title:  

Title:  

Vice President  

[Signature Page to Trust Agreement]  

</EX-10.3>

<EX-23>
 3
 a06-25388_1ex23.htm
 EX-23

EXHIBIT 23     

   CONSENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  We
have issued our reports dated December 13, 2006 accompanying the
consolidated financial statements and schedules, and management s assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
Annual Report of Griffon Corporation and subsidiaries on Form 10-K
for the year ended September 30, 2006. We hereby consent to the
incorporation by reference of said reports in the Registration Statements of
Griffon Corporation on Forms S-8 (File No. 33-39090, effective
February 22, 1991, File No. 33-62966, effective May 19,
1993, File No. 33-52319, effective February 18, 1994, File No. 333-21503,
effective February 10, 1997, File No. 333-62319, effective August 26,
1998, File No. 333-84409, effective August 3, 1999, File No. 333-67760,
effective August 17, 2001, File No. 333-88422, effective May 16,
2002, File No. 333-102742, effective January 27, 2003, File No. 333-131737,
effective February 10, 2006, and File No. 333-133833, effective
May 5, 2006).  

</EX-23>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 a06-25388_1ex23d1.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit 23.1     

   CONSENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  We
hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-39090, 33-62966, 33-52319, 333-21503,
333-62319, 333-84409, 333-67760, 333-88422, 333-102742,
333-131737 and 333-133833) of Griffon Corporation of our report
dated December 13, 2005 relating to the financial statements and financial
statement schedules, which appears in this Form 10-K.  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 a06-25388_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit 31.1   

   Certification     

  I, Harvey R. Blau,
certify that:  

  1.     I have
reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Griffon Corporation;  

  2.     Based on
my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

  3.     Based on
my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

  4.     The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  

  (a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

  (b)   Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

  (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

  (d)   Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5.     The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

  (a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

  (b)   Any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: December 14, 2006 

By:  

/S /
  HARVEY R. BLAU  

Chairman
  of the Board and   

Chief
  Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 a06-25388_1ex31d2.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit 31.2   

   Certification     

  I, Eric Edelstein,
certify that:  

  1.     I have
reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Griffon Corporation;  

  2.     Based on
my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

  3.     Based on
my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

  4.     The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  

  (a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

  (b)   Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

  (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

  (d)   Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5.     The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

  (a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

  (b)   Any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: December 14, 2006 

By:  

/s/ ERIC EDELSTEIN  

Executive
  Vice President and   

Chief
  Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 7
 a06-25388_1ex32.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit 32   

   CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO   
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

  I, Harvey R. Blau, Chief
Executive Officer of Griffon Corporation, certify that the Form 10-K
of Griffon Corporation for the period ended September 30, 2006, fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and the information contained in such report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations
of Griffon Corporation for the periods presented.  

I, Eric Edelstein, Chief
Financial Officer of Griffon Corporation, certify that the Form 10-K
of Griffon Corporation for the period ended September 30, 2006, fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13 (a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and the information contained in such report fairly
presents, in all materials respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of Griffon Corporation for the periods presented.  

A signed original of this written statement required
by Section 906 has been provided to Griffon Corporation and will be
retained by Griffon Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32>

