<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061208_10-K_edgar_data_70145_0000950152-06-009990_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2507872</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>395192</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>260822</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1329458</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>109</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950152-06-009990.hdr.sgml : 20061208
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061208161137
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950152-06-009990
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061208
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061208

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			NATIONAL FUEL GAS CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000070145
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION [4924]
		IRS NUMBER:				131086010
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0905

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03880
		FILM NUMBER:		061265860

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6363 MAIN STREET
		CITY:			WILLIAMSVILLE
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			14221-5887
		BUSINESS PHONE:		716-857-7000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6363 MAIN STREET
		STREET 2:		6363 MAIN STREET
		CITY:			WILLIAMSVILLE
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			14221-5887

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 A0B/NsLKBrqAIpEIBcb++/Y04WGYvEHNQ3+heYPc2tmZjN4U06PjYwhOQhf+8eRc
 hsGwyhf4z4C6qNqRNiHx1g==

 0000950152-06-009990.txt : 20061208

10-K
 1
 l22614ae10vk.htm
 NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY   10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934  

For the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2006 

o    

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OR 15(d)  

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934  

For the Transition Period
    from          
    to           

Commission File Number 1-3880 

National Fuel Gas
    Company  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

(716) 857-7000 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Name of 

Each Exchange 

on Which 

Title of Each Class 

Registered 

Common Stock, $1 Par Value,
    and 
    Common Stock Purchase Rights

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15
    (d) of the
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing
    requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.    o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large Accelerated
    Filer         Accelerated
    Filer  o      Non-Accelerated
    Filer  o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes  o      No   

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
    nonaffiliates of the registrant amounted to $2,715,600,700 as of
    March 31, 2006.

Common Stock, $1 Par Value, outstanding as of
    November 30, 2006: 82,385,144 shares.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for
    the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held February 15,
    2007 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
    report.

Table of Contents   

Glossary
    of Terms  

Frequently used abbreviations,
    acronyms, or terms used in this report:

National
    Fuel Gas Companies   

Company   
    The Registrant, the Registrant and its subsidiaries or the
    Registrant s subsidiaries as appropriate in the context of
    the disclosure

Data-Track   
    Data-Track Account Services, Inc.

Distribution
    Corporation    National
    Fuel Gas Distribution Corporation

Empire   
    Empire State Pipeline

ESNE   
    Energy Systems North East, LLC

Highland
       Highland Forest
    Resources, Inc.

Horizon
       Horizon Energy
    Development, Inc.

Horizon B.V.
       Horizon Energy
    Development B.V.

Horizon LFG
       Horizon LFG, Inc.

Horizon Power
       Horizon Power, Inc.

Leidy Hub
       Leidy Hub, Inc.

Model City
       Model City Energy, LLC

National Fuel
       National Fuel Gas Company

NFR
       National Fuel Resources,
    Inc.

Registrant
       National Fuel Gas Company

SECI
       Seneca Energy Canada Inc.

Seneca
       Seneca Resources
    Corporation

Seneca Energy
       Seneca Energy II,
    LLC

Supply Corporation
       National Fuel Gas Supply
    Corporation

Toro
       Toro Partners, LP

U.E.
       United Energy, a.s.

Regulatory
    Agencies   

EPA
       United States
    Environmental Protection Agency

FASB
       Financial Accounting
    Standards Board

FERC
       Federal Energy
    Regulatory Commission

NYPSC
       State of New York Public
    Service Commission

PaPUC
       Pennsylvania Public
    Utility Commission

SEC
       Securities and Exchange
    Commission

NTSB
       National Transportation
    Safety Board

Other   

APB 18
       Accounting Principles
    Board Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for
    Investments in Common Stock

APB 20
       Accounting Principles
    Board Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes

APB 25
       Accounting Principles
    Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
    Employees

Bbl
       Barrel (of oil)

Bcf
       Billion cubic feet (of
    natural gas)

Bcf (or Mcf) Equivalent
       The total heat value
    (Btu) of natural gas and oil expressed as a volume of natural
    gas. National Fuel uses a conversion formula of 1 barrel of
    oil = 6 Mcf of natural gas.

Board foot
       A measure of lumber
     and/or 
    timber equal to 12 inches in length by 12 inches in
    width by one inch in thickness.

Btu
       British thermal unit;
    the amount of heat needed to raise the temperature of one pound
    of water one degree Fahrenheit.

Capital expenditure
       Represents additions to
    property, plant, and equipment, or the amount of money a company
    spends to buy capital assets or upgrade its existing capital
    assets.

Cashout revenues
       A cash resolution of a
    gas imbalance whereby a customer pays Supply Corporation for gas
    the customer receives in excess of amounts delivered into Supply
    Corporation s system by the customer s shipper.

CTA
       Cumulative Foreign
    Currency Translation Adjustment

Degree day
       A measure of the
    coldness of the weather experienced, based on the extent to
    which the daily average temperature falls below a reference
    temperature, usually 65 degrees Fahrenheit.

Derivative
       A financial instrument
    or other contract, the terms of which include an underlying
    variable (a price, interest rate, index rate, exchange rate, or
    other variable) and a notional amount (number of units, barrels,
    cubic feet, etc.). The terms also permit for the instrument or
    contract to be settled net, and no initial net investment is
    required to enter into the financial instrument or contract.
    Examples include futures contracts, options, no cost collars and
    swaps.

Development costs
       Costs incurred to obtain
    access to proved reserves and to provide facilities for
    extracting, treating, gathering and storing the oil and gas.

Development well
       A well drilled to a
    known producing formation in a previously discovered field.

Dth
       Decatherm; one Dth of
    natural gas has a heating value of 1,000,000 British thermal
    units, approximately equal to the heating value of 1 Mcf of
    natural gas.

Energy Policy Act
       Energy Policy Act of 2005

Exchange Act
       Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934, as amended

Expenditures for long-lived
    assets    Includes capital
    expenditures, stock acquisitions
     and/or 
    investments in partnerships.

Exploration costs
       Costs incurred in
    identifying areas that may warrant examination, as well as costs
    incurred in examining specific areas, including drilling
    exploratory wells.

Exploratory well
       A well drilled in
    unproven or semi-proven territory for the purpose of
    ascertaining the presence underground of a commercial
    hydrocarbon deposit.

FIN
       FASB Interpretation
    Number

FIN 47
       FASB Interpretation
    No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
    Obligations   an interpretation of SFAS 143.

FIN 48
       FASB Interpretation
    No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes   an interpretation of SFAS 109.

Firm transportation
     and/or 
    storage    The
    transportation
     and/or 
    storage service that a supplier of such service is obligated by
    contract to provide and for which the customer is obligated to
    pay whether or not the service is utilized.

GAAP
       Accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America

Goodwill
       An intangible asset
    representing the difference between the fair value of a company
    and the price at which a company is purchased.

Grid
       The layout of the
    electrical transmission system or a synchronized transmission
    network.

Heavy oil
       A type of crude
    petroleum that usually is not economically recoverable in its
    natural state without being heated or diluted.

Hedging
       A method of minimizing
    the impact of price, interest rate,
     and/or 
    foreign currency exchange rate changes, often times through the
    use of derivative financial instruments.

Hub
       Location where pipelines
    intersect enabling the trading, transportation, storage,
    exchange, lending and borrowing of natural gas.

Interruptible transportation
     and/or 
    storage    The
    transportation
     and/or 
    storage service that, in accordance with contractual
    arrangements, can be interrupted by the supplier of such
    service, and for which the customer does not pay unless utilized.

LIBOR
       London InterBank Offered
    Rate

LIFO
        Last-in, 
    first-out

Mbbl
       Thousand barrels (of oil)

Mcf
       Thousand cubic feet (of
    natural gas)

MD&A
       Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations

MDth
       Thousand decatherms (of
    natural gas)

MMcf
       Million cubic feet (of
    natural gas)

MMcfe
       Million cubic feet
    equivalent

NYMEX
       New York Mercantile
    Exchange. An exchange which maintains a futures market for crude
    oil and natural gas.

Order 636
       An order issued by FERC
    entitled  Pipeline Service Obligations and Revisions to
    Regulations Governing Self-Implementing Transportation Under
    Part 284 of the Commission s Regulations. 

Order
     667-A 
       An order issued by FERC
    to clarify Order 667 entitled  Repeal of the Public Utility
    Holding Company Act of 1935 and Enactment of the Public Utility
    Holding Company Act of 2005. 

Precedent Agreement
       An agreement between a
    pipeline company and a potential customer to sign a service
    agreement after specified events (called  conditions
    precedent ) happen, usually within a specified time.

Proved developed reserves
       Reserves that can be
    expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing
    equipment and operating methods.

Proved undeveloped reserves
       Reserves that are
    expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or
    from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is
    required to make these reserves productive.

PRP
       Potentially responsible
    party

PUHCA 1935
       Public Utility Holding
    Company Act of 1935

PUHCA 2005
       Public Utility Holding
    Company Act of 2005

Reserves
       The unproduced but
    recoverable oil
     and/or  gas
    in place in a formation which has been proven by production.

Restructuring
       Generally referring to
    partial  deregulation  of the utility industry by
    statutory or regulatory process. Restructuring of federally
    regulated natural gas pipelines resulted in the separation (or
     unbundled ) of gas commodity service from
    transportation service for wholesale and large- volume retail
    markets. State restructuring programs attempt to extend the same
    process to retail mass markets.

SFAS
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards

SFAS 3
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in
    Interim Financial Statements

SFAS 69
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 69, Disclosures about Oil and Gas
    Producing Activities

SFAS 71
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of
    Certain Types of Regulation

SFAS 87
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 87, Employers  Accounting for
    Pensions

SFAS 88
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 88, Employers  Accounting for
    Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans
    and for Termination Benefits

SFAS 106
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers  Accounting
    for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions.

SFAS 109
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes

SFAS 123
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation

SFAS 123R
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 123R, Share-Based Payment

SFAS 132R
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 132R, Employers  Disclosures
    about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits

SFAS 133
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities

SFAS 142
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible
    Assets

SFAS 143
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 143, Accounting for Asset
    Retirement Obligations

SFAS 154
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error
    Corrections

SFAS 157
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements

SFAS 158
       Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers  Accounting
    for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an
    amendment of SFAS 87, 88, 106, and 132R

Spot gas purchases
       The purchase of natural
    gas on a short-term basis.

Stock acquisitions
       Investments in
    corporations.

Unbundled service
       A service that has been
    separated from other services, with rates charged that reflect
    only the cost of the separated service.

VEBA
       Voluntary
    Employees  Beneficiary Association

WNC
       Weather normalization
    clause; a clause in utility rates which adjusts customer rates
    to allow a utility to recover its normal operating costs
    calculated at normal temperatures. If temperatures during the
    measured period are warmer than normal, customer rates are
    adjusted upward in order to recover projected operating costs.
    If temperatures during the measured period are colder than
    normal, customer rates are adjusted downward so that only the
    projected operating costs will be recovered.

Table of Contents   

For the
    Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2006  

CONTENTS  

Page 

Part I   

ITEM 1  

BUSINESS  

3

The
    Company and its Subsidiaries  

3

Rates
    and Regulation  

4

The
    Utility Segment  

5

The
    Pipeline and Storage Segment  

5

The
    Exploration and Production Segment  

6

The
    Energy Marketing Segment  

6

The
    Timber Segment  

6

All
    Other Category and Corporate Operations  

7

Discontinued
    Operations  

7

Sources
    and Availability of Raw Materials  

7

Competition  

7

Seasonality  

9

Capital
    Expenditures  

10

Environmental
    Matters  

10

Miscellaneous  

10

Executive
    Officers of the Company  

10

ITEM 1A  

RISK
    FACTORS  

12

ITEM 1B  

UNRESOLVED STAFF
    COMMENTS  

17

ITEM 2  

PROPERTIES  

17

General
    Information on Facilities  

17

Exploration
    and Production Activities  

18

ITEM 3  

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS  

21

ITEM 4  

SUBMISSION OF
    MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

22

Part II   

ITEM 5  

MARKET FOR THE
    REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
    ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

22

ITEM 6  

SELECTED FINANCIAL
    DATA  

23

ITEM 7  

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS  

25

ITEM 7A  

QUANTITATIVE AND
    QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

59

ITEM 8  

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

60

ITEM 9  

CHANGES IN AND
    DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
    DISCLOSURE  

114

ITEM 9A  

CONTROLS AND
    PROCEDURES  

114

ITEM 9B  

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

114

1

Table of Contents   

2

Table of Contents   

This
     Form 10-K 
    contains  forward-looking statements  as defined by
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
    Forward-looking statements should be read with the cautionary
    statements included in this
     Form 10-K 
    at item 7, MD&A, under the heading  Safe Harbor
    for Forward-Looking Statements.  Forward-looking statements
    are all statements other than statements of historical fact,
    including, without limitation, those statements that are
    designated with an asterisk ( * ) following the
    statement, as well as those statements that are identified by
    the use of the words  anticipates, 
     estimates,   expects,   intends, 
     plans,   predicts,   projects, 
    and similar expressions.

PART I  

Item 1      

Business   

The
    Company and its Subsidiaries  

National Fuel Gas Company (the Registrant), incorporated in
    1902, is a holding company organized under the laws of the State
    of New Jersey. Except as otherwise indicated below, the
    Registrant owns directly or indirectly all of the outstanding
    securities of its subsidiaries. Reference to  the
    Company  in this report means the Registrant, the
    Registrant and its subsidiaries or the Registrant s
    subsidiaries as appropriate in the context of the disclosure.
    Also, all references to a certain year in this report relate to
    the Company s fiscal year ended September 30 of that
    year unless otherwise noted.

The Company is a diversified energy company consisting of five
    reportable business segments.

1. The Utility segment operations are carried out by
    National Fuel Gas Distribution Corporation (Distribution
    Corporation), a New York corporation. Distribution Corporation
    sells natural gas or provides natural gas transportation
    services to approximately 727,000 customers through a local
    distribution system located in western New York and northwestern
    Pennsylvania. The principal metropolitan areas served by
    Distribution Corporation include Buffalo, Niagara Falls and
    Jamestown, New York and Erie and Sharon, Pennsylvania.

2. The Pipeline and Storage segment operations are carried
    out by National Fuel Gas Supply Corporation (Supply
    Corporation), a Pennsylvania corporation, and Empire State
    Pipeline (Empire), a New York joint venture between two
    wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company. Supply Corporation
    provides interstate natural gas transportation and storage
    services for affiliated and nonaffiliated companies through
    (i) an integrated gas pipeline system extending from
    southwestern Pennsylvania to the New York-Canadian border at the
    Niagara River and eastward to Ellisburg and Leidy, Pennsylvania,
    and (ii) 28 underground natural gas storage fields owned
    and operated by Supply Corporation as well as four other
    underground natural gas storage fields owned and operated
    jointly with various other interstate gas pipeline companies.
    Empire, an intrastate pipeline company, transports natural gas
    for Distribution Corporation and for other utilities, large
    industrial customers and power producers in New York State.
    Empire owns a
     157-mile 
    pipeline that extends from the United States/Canadian border at
    the Niagara River near Buffalo, New York to near Syracuse, New
    York. The Company acquired Empire in February 2003.

3. The Exploration and Production segment operations are
    carried out by Seneca Resources Corporation (Seneca), a
    Pennsylvania corporation. Seneca is engaged in the exploration
    for, and the development and purchase of, natural gas and oil
    reserves in California, in the Appalachian region of the United
    States, and in the Gulf Coast region of Texas, Louisiana, and
    Alabama, including offshore areas in federal waters and some
    state waters. Also, Exploration and Production operations are
    conducted in the provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and British
    Columbia in Canada by Seneca Energy Canada Inc. (SECI), an
    Alberta, Canada corporation and a subsidiary of Seneca. At
    September 30, 2006, the Company had U.S. and Canadian
    reserves of 58,018 Mbbl of oil and 232,575 MMcf of natural
    gas.

4. The Energy Marketing segment operations are carried out
    by National Fuel Resources, Inc. (NFR), a New York corporation,
    which markets natural gas to industrial, commercial, public
    authority and residential end-users in western and central New
    York and northwestern Pennsylvania, offering competitively
    priced energy and energy management services for its customers.

3

Table of Contents   

5. The Timber segment operations are carried out by
    Highland Forest Resources, Inc. (Highland), a New York
    corporation, and by a division of Seneca known as its Northeast
    Division. This segment markets timber from its New York and
    Pennsylvania land holdings, owns two sawmill operations in
    northwestern Pennsylvania and processes timber consisting
    primarily of high quality hardwoods. At September 30, 2006,
    the Company owned approximately 100,000 acres of timber
    property and managed an additional 4,000 acres of timber
    rights.

Financial information about each of the Company s business
    segments can be found in Item 7, MD&A and also in
    Item 8 at Note J   Business Segment
    Information.

The Company s other direct wholly-owned subsidiaries are
    not included in any of the five reportable business segments and
    consist of the following:

Horizon Energy Development, Inc. (Horizon), a New York
    corporation formed to engage in foreign and domestic energy
    projects through investments as a sole or substantial owner in
    various business entities. These entities include Horizon s
    wholly-owned subsidiary, Horizon Energy Holdings, Inc., a New
    York corporation, which owns 100% of Horizon Energy Development
    B.V. (Horizon B.V.). Horizon B.V. is a Dutch company that is in
    the process of winding up or selling certain power development
    projects in Europe;

Horizon LFG, Inc. (Horizon LFG), a New York corporation engaged
    through subsidiaries in the purchase, sale and transportation of
    landfill gas in Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky, Missouri, Maryland and
    Indiana. Horizon LFG and one of its wholly owned subsidiaries
    own all of the partnership interests in Toro Partners, LP
    (Toro), a limited partnership which owns and operates
    short-distance landfill gas pipeline companies. The Company
    acquired Toro in June 2003;

Leidy Hub, Inc. (Leidy Hub), a New York corporation formed to
    provide various natural gas hub services to customers in the
    eastern United States;

Data-Track Account Services, Inc. (Data-Track), a New York
    corporation formed to provide collection services principally
    for the Company s subsidiaries;

Horizon Power, Inc. (Horizon Power), a New York corporation
    which is an  exempt wholesale generator  under PUHCA
    2005 and is developing or operating mid-range independent power
    production facilities and landfill gas electric generation
    facilities; and

Empire Pipeline, Inc., a New York corporation formed in 2005 to
    be the surviving corporation of a planned future merger with
    Empire, which is expected to occur after construction of the
    Empire Connector project (described below under the heading
     Rates and Regulation  and under Item 7, MD&A
    under the headings  Investing Cash Flow  and
     Rate and Regulatory Matters ).*

No single customer, or group of customers under common control,
    accounted for more than 10% of the Company s consolidated
    revenues in 2006.

Rates and
    Regulation  

The Registrant is a holding company as defined under PUHCA 2005.
    PUHCA 2005 repealed PUHCA 1935, to which the Company was
    formerly subject, and granted the FERC and state public utility
    commissions access to certain books and records of companies in
    holding company systems. Pursuant to the FERC s regulations
    under PUHCA 2005, the Company and its subsidiaries are exempt
    from the FERC s books and records regulations under PUHCA
    2005.

The Utility segment s rates, services and other matters are
    regulated by the NYPSC with respect to services provided within
    New York and by the PaPUC with respect to services provided
    within Pennsylvania. For additional discussion of the Utility
    segment s rates and regulation, see Item 7, MD&A
    under the heading  Rate and Regulatory Matters  and
    Item 8 at
     Note C-Regulatory 
    Matters.

The Pipeline and Storage segment s rates, services and
    other matters are currently regulated by the FERC with respect
    to Supply Corporation and by the NYPSC with respect to Empire.
    On October 11, 2005, Empire

4

Table of Contents   

filed an application with the FERC for the authority to build
    and operate an extension of its natural gas pipeline (the Empire
    Connector). If the FERC grants that application and the Company
    builds and commences operations of the Empire Connector, Empire
    will at that time become a FERC-regulated pipeline company.* For
    additional discussion of the Pipeline and Storage segment s
    rates and regulation, see Item 7, MD&A under the
    heading  Rate and Regulatory Matters  and Item 8
    at
     Note C-Regulatory 
    Matters. For further discussion of the Empire Connector project,
    refer to Item 7, MD&A under the headings
     Investing Cash Flow  and  Rate and Regulatory
    Matters. 

The discussion under Item 8 at
     Note C-Regulatory 
    Matters includes a description of the regulatory assets and
    liabilities reflected on the Company s Consolidated Balance
    Sheets in accordance with applicable accounting standards. To
    the extent that the criteria set forth in such accounting
    standards are not met by the operations of the Utility segment
    or the Pipeline and Storage segment, as the case may be, the
    related regulatory assets and liabilities would be eliminated
    from the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets and such
    accounting treatment would be discontinued.

In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to the
    same federal, state and local (including foreign) regulations on
    various subjects, including environmental matters, to which
    other companies doing similar business in the same locations are
    subject.

The
    Utility Segment  

The Utility segment contributed approximately 36.1% of the
    Company s 2006 net income available for common stock.

Additional discussion of the Utility segment appears below in
    this Item 1 under the headings  Sources and
    Availability of Raw Materials,   Competition: The
    Utility Segment  and  Seasonality,  in
    Item 7, MD&A and in Item 8, Financial Statements
    and Supplementary Data.

The
    Pipeline and Storage Segment  

The Pipeline and Storage segment contributed approximately 40.3%
    of the Company s 2006 net income available for common
    stock.

Supply Corporation has service agreements for all of its firm
    storage capacity, which totals approximately 68,408 MDth. The
    Utility segment has contracted for 27,865 MDth or 40.7% of the
    total firm storage capacity, and the Energy Marketing segment
    accounts for another 3,888 MDth or 5.7% of the total firm
    storage capacity. Nonaffiliated customers have contracted for
    the remaining 36,655 MDth or 53.6% of the total firm storage
    capacity. Following an industry trend, most of Supply
    Corporation s storage and transportation services are
    performed under contracts that allow Supply Corporation or the
    shipper to terminate the contract upon six or twelve
    months  notice effective at the end of the contract term.
    The contracts also typically include  evergreen 
    language designed to allow the contracts to extend
     year-to-year 
    at the end of the primary term. At the beginning of 2007, 95.9%
    of Supply Corporation s total firm storage capacity was
    committed under contracts that, subject to 2006 shipper or
    Supply Corporation notifications, could have been terminated
    effective in 2007. Supply Corporation neither issued nor
    received any contract termination notices in 2006, however, so
    it does not expect any storage contract terminations effective
    in 2007.* In 2006, the increased value of market-area storage
    afforded Supply Corporation the opportunity to eliminate a
    significant number of monetary rate discounts and to sign
    certain multi-year primary term extensions.

Supply Corporation s firm transportation capacity is not a
    fixed quantity, due to the diverse weblike nature of its
    pipeline system, and is subject to change as the market
    identifies different transportation paths and receipt/delivery
    point combinations. Supply Corporation currently has firm
    transportation service agreements for approximately 1,995 MDth
    per day (contracted transportation capacity). The Utility
    segment accounts for approximately 1,092 MDth per day or 54.7%
    of contracted transportation capacity, and the Energy Marketing
    segment represents another 99 MDth per day or 5.0% of contracted
    transportation capacity. The remaining 804 MDth or 40.3% of
    contracted transportation capacity is subject to firm contracts
    with nonaffiliated customers.

5

Table of Contents   

At the beginning of 2007, 56.9% of Supply Corporation s
    contracted transportation capacity was committed under affiliate
    contracts that were scheduled to expire in 2007 or, subject to
    2006 shipper or Supply Corporation notifications, could have
    been terminated effective in 2007. Based on contract expirations
    and termination notices received in 2006 for 2007 termination,
    and taking into account any known contract additions, contracted
    transportation capacity with affiliates is expected to decrease
    0.8% in 2007.* Similarly, 28.4% of contracted transportation
    capacity was committed under unaffiliated shipper contracts that
    were scheduled to expire in 2007 or, subject to 2006 shipper or
    Supply Corporation notifications, could have been terminated
    effective in 2007. Based on contract expirations and termination
    notices received in 2006 for 2007 termination, and taking into
    account any known contract additions, contracted transportation
    capacity with unaffiliated shippers is expected to decrease 2.4%
    in 2007.* Supply Corporation previously has been successful in
    marketing and obtaining executed contracts for available
    transportation capacity (at discounted rates when necessary),
    and expects its success to continue.*

Empire has service agreements for the
     2006-2007 
    winter period for all of its firm transportation capacity, which
    totals approximately 575 MDth per day. Empire provides service
    under both annual (12 months per year) and seasonal (winter
    or summer only) contracts. Approximately 88.7% of Empire s
    firm contracted capacity is on an annual long-term basis. Annual
    long-term agreements representing 0.5% of Empire s firm
    contracted capacity expire in 2007. Approximately 3.4% of
    Empire s firm contracted capacity is under multi-year
    seasonal contracts, none of which expire in 2007. The remaining
    capacity, which represents 7.9% of Empire s firm contracted
    capacity, is under single season or annual contracts which will
    expire before the end of 2007. Empire expects that all of this
    expiring capacity will be re-contracted under seasonal
     and/or 
    annual arrangements for future contracting periods.* The Utility
    segment accounts for approximately 8.6% of Empire s firm
    contracted capacity, and the Energy Marketing segment accounts
    for approximately 1.7% of Empire s firm contracted
    capacity, with the remaining 89.7% of Empire s firm
    contracted transportation capacity subject to contracts with
    nonaffiliated customers.

Additional discussion of the Pipeline and Storage segment
    appears below under the headings  Sources and Availability
    of Raw Materials,   Competition: The Pipeline and
    Storage Segment  and  Seasonality,  in
    Item 7, MD&A and in Item 8, Financial Statements
    and Supplementary Data.

The
    Exploration and Production Segment  

The Exploration and Production segment contributed approximately
    15.2% of the Company s 2006 net income available for
    common stock.

Additional discussion of the Exploration and Production segment
    appears below under the headings  Sources and Availability
    of Raw Materials  and  Competition: The Exploration
    and Production Segment,  in Item 7, MD&A and in
    Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The
    Energy Marketing Segment  

The Energy Marketing segment contributed approximately 4.2% of
    the Company s 2006 net income available for common
    stock.

Additional discussion of the Energy Marketing segment appears
    below under the headings  Sources and Availability of Raw
    Materials,   Competition: The Energy Marketing
    Segment  and  Seasonality,  in Item 7,
    MD&A and in Item 8, Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data.

The
    Timber Segment  

The Timber segment contributed approximately 4.1% of the
    Company s 2006 net income available for common stock.

Additional discussion of the Timber segment appears below under
    the headings  Sources and Availability of Raw
    Materials,   Competition: The Timber Segment  and
     Seasonality,  in Item 7, MD&A and in
    Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

6

Table of Contents   

All Other
    Category and Corporate Operations  

The All Other category and Corporate operations contributed less
    than 1% of the Company s 2006 net income available for
    common stock.

Additional discussion of the All Other category and Corporate
    operations appears below in Item 7, MD&A and in
    Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Discontinued
    Operations  

In July 2005, Horizon B.V. sold its entire 85.16% interest in
    United Energy, a.s. (U.E.), a district heating and electric
    generation business in the Czech Republic. United Energy s
    operations are presented in the Company s financial
    statements as discontinued operations.

Additional discussion of the Company s discontinued
    operations appears in Item 7, MD&A and in Item 8,
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Sources
    and Availability of Raw Materials  

Natural gas is the principal raw material for the Utility
    segment. In 2006, the Utility segment purchased 74.5 Bcf of
    gas for core market demand. Gas purchased from producers and
    suppliers in the southwestern United States and Canada under
    firm contracts (seasonal and longer) accounted for 82% of these
    purchases. Purchases of gas on the spot market (contracts for
    one month or less) accounted for 18% of the Utility
    segment s 2006 purchases. Purchases from Chevron Natural
    Gas (16%), ConocoPhillips Company (15%), Total Gas &
    Power North America Inc. (11%) and Anadarko Energy Services
    Company (11%) accounted for 53% of the Utility s 2006 gas
    purchases. No other producer or supplier provided the Utility
    segment with more than 10% of its gas requirements in 2006.

Supply Corporation transports and stores gas owned by its
    customers, whose gas originates in the southwestern,
    mid-continent and Appalachian regions of the United States as
    well as in Canada. Empire transports gas owned by its customers,
    whose gas originates in the southwestern and mid-continent
    regions of the United States as well as in Canada. Additional
    discussion of proposed pipeline projects appears below under
     Competition: The Pipeline and Storage Segment  and in
    Item 7, MD&A.

The Exploration and Production segment seeks to discover and
    produce raw materials (natural gas, oil and hydrocarbon liquids)
    as further described in this report in Item 7, MD&A and
    Item 8 at
     Note J-Business 
    Segment Information and
     Note O-Supplementary 
    Information for Oil and Gas Producing Activities.

With respect to the Timber segment, Highland requires an
    adequate supply of timber to process in its sawmill and kiln
    operations. Fifty-five percent of the timber processed during
    2006 in Highland s sawmill operations came from land owned
    by the Company s subsidiaries, and 45% came from outside
    sources. In addition, Highland purchased approximately eight
    million board feet of green lumber to augment lumber supply for
    its kiln operations.

The Energy Marketing segment depends on an adequate supply of
    natural gas to deliver to its customers. In 2006, this segment
    purchased 47 Bcf of natural gas, of which 45 Bcf
    served core market demands. The remaining 2 Bcf largely
    represents gas used in operations. The gas purchased by the
    Energy Marketing segment originates in either the Appalachian or
    mid-continent regions of the United States or in Canada.

Competition  

Competition in the natural gas industry exists among providers
    of natural gas, as well as between natural gas and other sources
    of energy. The natural gas industry has gone through various
    stages of regulation. Apart from environmental and state utility
    commission regulation, the natural gas industry has experienced
    considerable deregulation. This has enhanced the competitive
    position of natural gas relative to other energy sources, such
    as fuel oil or electricity, since some of the historical
    regulatory impediments to adding customers and responding to
    market forces have been removed. In addition, management
    believes that the environmental advantages of natural gas have
    enhanced its competitive position relative to other fuels.

7

Table of Contents   

The electric industry has been moving toward a more competitive
    environment as a result of changes in federal law in 1992 and
    initiatives undertaken by the FERC and various states. It
    remains unclear what the impact of any further restructuring in
    response to legislation or other events may be.*

The Company competes on the basis of price, service and
    reliability, product performance and other factors. Sources and
    providers of energy, other than those described under this
     Competition  heading, do not compete with the Company
    to any significant extent.*

Competition:
    The Utility Segment  

The changes precipitated by the FERC s restructuring of the
    natural gas industry in Order No. 636, which was issued in
    1992, continue to reshape the roles of the gas utility industry
    and the state regulatory commissions. In both New York and
    Pennsylvania, Distribution Corporation has retained substantial
    numbers of residential and small commercial customers as sales
    customers. However, for many years almost all the industrial and
    a substantial number of commercial customers have purchased
    their gas supplies from marketers and utilized Distribution
    Corporation s gas transportation services. Regulators in
    both New York and Pennsylvania have adopted retail competition
    programs for natural gas supply purchases by the remaining
    utility sales customers. To date, the Utility segment s
    traditional distribution function remains largely unchanged;
    however, the NYPSC has stepped up its efforts to encourage
    customer choice at the retail residential level. In New York,
    the Utility segment has instituted a number of programs to
    accommodate more widespread customer choice. In Pennsylvania,
    the PaPUC issued a report in October 2005 that concluded
     effective competition  does not exist in the retail
    natural gas supply market statewide. In 2006, the PaPUC
    reconvened a stakeholder group to explore ways to increase the
    participation of retail customers in choice programs. The
    findings of the stakeholder group are expected to be presented
    to the PaPUC during 2007.

Competition for large-volume customers continues with local
    producers or pipeline companies attempting to sell or transport
    gas directly to end-users located within the Utility
    segment s service territories without use of the
    utility s facilities (i.e., bypass). In addition,
    competition continues with fuel oil suppliers and may increase
    with electric utilities making retail energy sales.*

The Utility segment competes, through its unbundled flexible
    services, in its most vulnerable markets (the large commercial
    and industrial markets).* The Utility segment continues to
    (i) develop or promote new sources and uses of natural gas
    or new services, rates and contracts and (ii) emphasize and
    provide high quality service to its customers.

Competition:
    The Pipeline and Storage Segment  

Supply Corporation competes for market growth in the natural gas
    market with other pipeline companies transporting gas in the
    northeast United States and with other companies providing gas
    storage services. Supply Corporation has some unique
    characteristics which enhance its competitive position. Its
    facilities are located adjacent to Canada and the northeastern
    United States and provide part of the link between gas-consuming
    regions of the eastern United States and gas-producing regions
    of Canada and the southwestern, southern and other continental
    regions of the United States. This location offers the
    opportunity for increased transportation and storage services in
    the future.*

Empire competes for market growth in the natural gas market with
    other pipeline companies transporting gas in the northeast
    United States and upstate New York in particular. Empire is
    particularly well situated to provide transportation from
    Canadian sourced gas, and its facilities are readily expandable.
    These characteristics provide Empire the opportunity to compete
    for an increased share of the gas transportation markets. As
    noted above, Empire is pursuing the Empire Connector project,
    which would expand its natural gas pipeline to serve new markets
    in New York and elsewhere in the Northeast.* For further
    discussion of this project, refer to Item 7, MD&A under
    the headings  Investing Cash Flow  and  Rate and
    Regulatory Matters. 

8

Table of Contents   

Competition:
    The Exploration and Production Segment  

The Exploration and Production segment competes with other oil
    and natural gas producers and marketers with respect to sales of
    oil and natural gas. The Exploration and Production segment also
    competes, by competitive bidding and otherwise, with other oil
    and natural gas producers with respect to exploration and
    development prospects.

To compete in this environment, each of Seneca and SECI
    originates and acts as operator on certain of its prospects,
    seeks to minimize the risk of exploratory efforts through
    partnership-type arrangements, utilizes technology for both
    exploratory studies and drilling operations, and seeks market
    niches based on size, operating expertise and financial criteria.

Competition:
    The Energy Marketing Segment  

The Energy Marketing segment competes with other marketers of
    natural gas and with other providers of energy management
    services. Competition in this area is well developed with regard
    to price and services from local, regional and, more recently,
    national marketers.

Competition:
    The Timber Segment  

With respect to the Timber segment, Highland competes with other
    sawmill operations and with other suppliers of timber, logs and
    lumber. These competitors may be local, regional, national or
    international in scope. This competition, however, is primarily
    limited to those entities which either process or supply high
    quality hardwoods species such as cherry, oak and maple as
    veneer logs, saw logs, export logs or lumber ultimately used in
    the production of high-end furniture, cabinetry and flooring.
    The Timber segment sells its products in domestic and
    international markets.

Seasonality  

Variations in weather conditions can materially affect the
    volume of gas delivered by the Utility segment, as virtually all
    of its residential and commercial customers use gas for space
    heating. The effect that this has on Utility segment margins in
    New York is mitigated by a WNC, which covers the eight-month
    period from October through May. Weather that is more than 2.2%
    warmer than normal results in a surcharge being added to
    customers  current bills, while weather that is more than
    2.2% colder than normal results in a refund being credited to
    customers  current bills.

Volumes transported and stored by Supply Corporation may vary
    materially depending on weather, without materially affecting
    its revenues. Supply Corporation s allowed rates are based
    on a straight fixed-variable rate design which allows recovery
    of fixed costs in fixed monthly reservation charges. Variable
    charges based on volumes are designed to recover only the
    variable costs associated with actual transportation or storage
    of gas.

Volumes transported by Empire may vary materially depending on
    weather, and can have a moderate effect on its revenues.
    Empire s allowed rates are based on a modified
    fixed-variable rate design, which allows recovery of most fixed
    costs in fixed monthly reservation charges. Variable charges
    based on volumes are designed to recover variable costs
    associated with actual transportation of gas, to recover return
    on equity, and to recover income taxes.

Variations in weather conditions can materially affect the
    volume of gas consumed by customers of the Energy Marketing
    segment. Volume variations can have a corresponding impact on
    revenues within this segment.

The activities of the Timber segment vary on a seasonal basis
    and are subject to weather constraints. Traditionally, the
    timber harvesting season occurs when timber growth is dormant
    and runs from approximately September to March. The operations
    conducted in the summer months typically focus on pulpwood and
    on thinning out lower-grade or lower value trees from the timber
    stands to encourage the growth of higher-grade or higher value
    trees.

9

Table of Contents   

Capital
    Expenditures  

A discussion of capital expenditures by business segment is
    included in Item 7, MD&A under the heading
     Investing Cash Flow. 

Environmental
    Matters  

A discussion of material environmental matters involving the
    Company is included in Item 7, MD&A under the heading
     Environmental Matters  and in Item 8,
    Note H   Commitments and Contingencies.

Miscellaneous  

The Company and its wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries
    had a total of 1,993 full-time employees at
    September 30, 2006, with 1,970 employees in all of its
    U.S. operations and 23 employees in its Canadian operations
    at SECI. This is a decrease of 2.5% from the 2,044 total
    employed at September 30, 2005.

Agreements covering employees in collective bargaining units in
    New York are scheduled to expire in February 2008. Certain
    agreements covering employees in collective bargaining units in
    Pennsylvania are scheduled to expire in April 2009, and other
    agreements covering employees in collective bargaining units in
    Pennsylvania are scheduled to expire in May 2009.

The Utility segment has numerous municipal franchises under
    which it uses public roads and certain other
     rights-of-way 
    and public property for the location of facilities. When
    necessary, the Utility segment renews such franchises.

The Company makes its annual report on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on
    the Company s internet website, www.nationalfuelgas.com, as
    soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically
    filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information available at
    the Company s internet website is not part of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.

Executive
    Officers of the Company as of November 15, 2006 (except as
    otherwise noted)(1)  

Current Company 

Positions and 

Other Material 

Business Experience 

Name and Age (as of 

During Past 

November 15, 2006) 

Five Years 

Philip C. Ackerman 
    (62)

Chairman of the Board of Directors
    since January 2002; Chief Executive Officer since October 2001;
    and President of Horizon since September 1995. Mr. Ackerman has
    served as a Director of the Company since March 1994, and
    previously served as President of the Company from July 1999
    through January 2006.

David F. Smith 
    (53)

President of the Company since
    February 2006; Chief Operating Officer of the Company since
    February 2006; President of Supply Corporation since April 2005;
    President of Empire since April 2005. Mr. Smith previously
    served as Vice President of the Company from April 2005 through
    January 2006; President of Distribution Corporation from July
    1999 to April 2005; and Senior Vice President of Supply
    Corporation from July 2000 to April 2005.

10

Table of Contents   

Current Company 

Positions and 

Other Material 

Business Experience 

Name and Age (as of 

During Past 

November 15, 2006) 

Five Years 

Ronald J. Tanski 
    (54)

Treasurer and Principal Financial
    Officer of the Company since April 2004; President of
    Distribution Corporation since February 2006; Treasurer of
    Distribution Corporation since April 2004; Secretary and
    Treasurer of Supply Corporation since April 2004; Secretary and
    Treasurer of Horizon since February 1997. Mr. Tanski
    previously served as Controller of the Company from February
    2003 through March 2004; Senior Vice President of Distribution
    Corporation from July 2001 through January 2006; and Controller
    of Distribution Corporation from February 1997 through March
    2004.

Matthew D. Cabell 
    (48)

President of Seneca effective
    December 11, 2006. Mr. Cabell previously served as
    Executive Vice President and General Manager of Marubeni
    Oil & Gas (USA) Inc., an exploration and production
    company with assets of over $1,000,000,000, as Vice President of
    Randall & Dewey, Inc., a major oil and gas transaction
    advisory firm, as an independent consultant assisting oil
    companies in upstream acquisition and divestment transactions as
    well as Gulf of Mexico entry strategy, and as Vice President,
    Gulf of Mexico Exploration for Texaco Corporation.
    Mr. Cabell s prior employers are not subsidiaries or
    affiliates of the Company.

Karen M. Camiolo 
    (47)

Controller and Principal
    Accounting Officer of the Company since April 2004; Controller
    of Distribution Corporation and Supply Corporation since April
    2004; and Chief Auditor of the Company from July 1994 through
    March 2004.

Anna Marie Cellino 
    (53)

Secretary of the Company since
    October 1995; Senior Vice President of Distribution Corporation
    since July 2001.

Paula M. Ciprich 
    (46)

General Counsel of the Company
    since January 2005; Assistant Secretary and General Counsel of
    Distribution Corporation since February 1997.

Donna L. DeCarolis 
    (47)

President of NFR since January
    2005; Secretary of NFR since March 2002; Vice President of NFR
    from May 2001 to January 2005.

John R. Pustulka 
    (54)

Senior Vice President of Supply
    Corporation since July 2001.

James D. Ramsdell 
    (51)

Senior Vice President of
    Distribution Corporation since July 2001.

(1)  

The executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of
    Directors. The information provided relates to the Company and
    its principal subsidiaries. Many of the executive officers also
    have served or currently serve as officers or directors of other
    subsidiaries of the Company. 

11

Table of Contents   

Item 1A   Risk
    Factors   

As a
    holding company, National Fuel depends on its operating
    subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations.   

National Fuel is a holding company with no significant assets
    other than the stock of its operating subsidiaries. In order to
    meet its financial needs, National Fuel relies exclusively on
    repayments of principal and interest on intercompany loans made
    by National Fuel to its operating subsidiaries and income from
    dividends and other cash flow from the subsidiaries. Such
    operating subsidiaries may not generate sufficient net income to
    pay upstream dividends or generate sufficient cash flow to make
    payments of principal or interest on such intercompany loans.

National
    Fuel is dependent on bank credit facilities and continued access
    to capital markets to successfully execute its operating
    strategies.   

In addition to its longer term debt that is issued to the public
    under its indentures, National Fuel has relied, and continues to
    rely, upon shorter term bank borrowings and commercial paper to
    finance the execution of a portion of its operating strategies.
    National Fuel is dependent on these capital sources to provide
    capital to its subsidiaries to allow them to acquire and develop
    their properties. The availability and cost of these credit
    sources is cyclical and these capital sources may not remain
    available to National Fuel or National Fuel may not be able to
    obtain money at a reasonable cost in the future. National
    Fuel s ability to borrow under its credit facilities and
    commercial paper agreements depends on National Fuel s
    compliance with its obligations under the facilities and
    agreements. In addition, all of National Fuel s short-term
    bank loans are in the form of floating rate debt or debt that
    may have rates fixed for very short periods of time. At present,
    National Fuel has no active interest rate hedges in place to
    protect against interest rate fluctuations on short-term bank
    debt. National Fuel has no active interest rate hedges in place
    with respect to other debt except at the project level of
    Empire, where there is an interest rate collar on the
    approximate $22.8 million of project debt (at
    September 30, 2006). In addition, the interest rates on
    National Fuel s short-term bank loans and the ability of
    National Fuel to issue commercial paper are affected by its debt
    credit ratings published by Standard & Poor s
    Ratings Service, Moody s Investors Service and Fitch
    Ratings Service. A ratings downgrade could increase the interest
    cost of this debt and decrease future availability of money from
    banks, commercial paper purchasers and other sources. National
    Fuel believes it is important to maintain investment grade
    credit ratings to conduct its business.

National
    Fuel s credit ratings may not reflect all the risks of an
    investment in its securities.   

National Fuel s credit ratings are an independent
    assessment of its ability to pay its obligations. Consequently,
    real or anticipated changes in the Company s credit ratings
    will generally affect the market value of the specific debt
    instruments that are rated, as well as the market value of the
    Company s common stock. National Fuel s credit
    ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact on the
    value of its common stock of risks related to structural, market
    or other factors discussed in this
     Form 10-K. 

National
    Fuel s need to comply with comprehensive, complex, and
    sometimes unpredictable government regulations may increase its
    costs and limit its revenue growth, which may result in reduced
    earnings.   

While National Fuel generally refers to its Utility segment and
    its Pipeline and Storage segment as its  regulated
    segments,  there are many governmental regulations that
    have an impact on almost every aspect of National Fuel s
    businesses. Existing statutes and regulations may be revised or
    reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or
    become applicable to the Company, which may affect its business
    in ways that the Company cannot predict.

In its Utility segment, the operations of Distribution
    Corporation are subject to the jurisdiction of the NYPSC and the
    PaPUC. The NYPSC and the PaPUC, among other things, approve the
    rates that Distribution Corporation may charge to its utility
    customers. Those approved rates also impact the returns that
    Distribution Corporation may earn on the assets that are
    dedicated to those operations. If Distribution Corporation is
    required in a rate proceeding to reduce the rates it charges its
    utility customers, or if Distribution Corporation is unable to
    obtain approval for rate increases from these regulators,
    particularly when necessary to cover

12

Table of Contents   

increased costs (including costs that may be incurred in
    connection with governmental investigations or proceedings or
    mandated infrastructure inspection, maintenance or replacement
    programs), earnings may decrease.

In addition to their historical methods of utility regulation,
    both the PaPUC and NYPSC have sought to establish competitive
    markets in which customers may purchase supplies of gas from
    marketers, rather than from utility companies. In June 1999, the
    Governor of Pennsylvania signed into law the Natural Gas Choice
    and Competition Act. The Act revised the Public Utility Code
    relating to the restructuring of the natural gas industry. The
    purpose of the law was to permit consumer choice of natural gas
    suppliers. To a certain degree, the early programs instituted to
    comply with the Act have not been overly successful, and many
    residential customers currently continue to purchase natural gas
    from the utility companies. In October 2005 the PaPUC concluded
    that  effective competition  does not exist in the
    retail natural gas supply market statewide. The PaPUC has
    reconvened a stakeholder group to explore ways to increase the
    participation of retail customers in choice programs. In New
    York, in August 2004, the NYPSC issued its Statement of Policy
    on Further Steps Toward Competition in Retail Energy Markets.
    This policy statement has a similar goal of encouraging customer
    choice of alternative natural gas providers. In 2005, the NYPSC
    stepped up its efforts to encourage customer choice at the
    retail residential level. These new forms of regulation may
    increase Distribution Corporation s cost of doing business,
    put an additional portion of its business at regulatory risk,
    and create uncertainty for the future, all of which may make it
    more difficult to manage Distribution Corporation s
    business profitably.

In its Pipeline and Storage segment, National Fuel is subject to
    the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to Supply Corporation,
    and to the jurisdiction of the NYPSC with respect to Empire. (On
    October 11, 2005, Empire filed an application with the FERC
    for the authority to build and operate an extension of its
    natural gas pipeline (the Empire Connector). If the FERC grants
    that application and the Company builds and commences operations
    of the Empire Connector, Empire will at that time become a
    FERC-regulated pipeline company.) The FERC and the NYPSC, among
    other things, approve the rates that Supply Corporation and
    Empire, respectively, may charge to their natural gas
    transportation
     and/or 
    storage customers. Those approved rates also impact the returns
    that Supply Corporation and Empire may earn on the assets that
    are dedicated to those operations. State commissions can also
    petition the FERC to investigate whether Supply
    Corporation s rates are still just and reasonable, and if
    not, to reduce those rates prospectively. If Supply Corporation
    or Empire is required in a rate proceeding to reduce the rates
    it charges its natural gas transportation
     and/or 
    storage customers, or if Supply Corporation or Empire is unable
    to obtain approval for rate increases, particularly when
    necessary to cover increased costs, Supply Corporation s or
    Empire s earnings may decrease.

National
    Fuel s liquidity, and in certain circumstances, its
    earnings, could be adversely affected by the cost of purchasing
    natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are
    rising significantly.   

Tariff rate schedules in each of the Utility segment s
    service territories contain purchased gas adjustment clauses
    which permit Distribution Corporation to file with state
    regulators for rate adjustments to recover increases in the cost
    of purchased gas. Assuming those rate adjustments are granted,
    increases in the cost of purchased gas have no direct impact on
    profit margins. Nevertheless, increases in the cost of purchased
    gas affect cash flows and can therefore impact the amount or
    availability of National Fuel s capital resources. National
    Fuel has issued commercial paper and used short-term borrowings
    in the past to temporarily finance storage inventories and
    purchased gas costs, and National Fuel expects to do so in the
    future.* Distribution Corporation is required to file an
    accounting reconciliation with the regulators in each of the
    Utility segment s service territories regarding the costs
    of purchased gas. Due to the nature of the regulatory process,
    there is a risk of a disallowance of full recovery of these
    costs during any period in which there has been a substantial
    upward spike in these costs. Any material disallowance of
    purchased gas costs could have a material adverse effect on cash
    flow and earnings. In addition, even when Distribution
    Corporation is allowed full recovery of these purchased gas
    costs, during periods when natural gas prices are significantly
    higher than historical levels, customers may have trouble paying
    the resulting higher bills, and Distribution Corporation s
    bad debt expenses may increase and ultimately reduce earnings.

13

Table of Contents   

Uncertain
    economic conditions may affect National Fuel s ability to
    finance capital expenditures and to refinance maturing
    debt.   

National Fuel s ability to finance capital expenditures and
    to refinance maturing debt will depend upon general economic
    conditions in the capital markets. The direction in which
    interest rates may move is uncertain. Declining interest rates
    have generally been believed to be favorable to utilities, while
    rising interest rates are generally believed to be unfavorable,
    because of the levels of debt that utilities may have
    outstanding. In addition, National Fuel s authorized rate
    of return in its regulated businesses is based upon certain
    assumptions regarding interest rates. If interest rates are
    lower than assumed rates, National Fuel s authorized rate
    of return could be reduced. If interest rates are higher than
    assumed rates, National Fuel s ability to earn its
    authorized rate of return may be adversely impacted.

Decreased
    oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect revenues, cash
    flows and profitability.   

National Fuel s exploration and production operations are
    materially dependent on prices received for its oil and natural
    gas production. Both short-term and long-term price trends
    affect the economics of exploring for, developing, producing,
    gathering and processing oil and natural gas. Oil and natural
    gas prices can be volatile and can be affected by: weather
    conditions, including natural disasters; the supply and price of
    foreign oil and natural gas; the level of consumer product
    demand; national and worldwide economic conditions, including
    economic disruptions caused by terrorist activities, acts of war
    or major accidents; political conditions in foreign countries;
    the price and availability of alternative fuels; the proximity
    to, and availability of capacity on, transportation facilities;
    regional levels of supply and demand; energy conservation
    measures; and government regulations, such as regulation of
    natural gas transportation, royalties, and price controls.
    National Fuel sells most of its oil and natural gas at current
    market prices rather than through fixed-price contracts,
    although as discussed below, National Fuel frequently hedges the
    price of a significant portion of its future production in the
    financial markets. The prices National Fuel receives depend upon
    factors beyond National Fuel s control, including the
    factors affecting price mentioned above. National Fuel believes
    that any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices would
    restrict its ability to continue the level of activity National
    Fuel otherwise would pursue, which could have a material adverse
    effect on its revenues, cash flows and results of operations.*

National
    Fuel has significant transactions involving price hedging of its
    oil and natural gas production.   

In order to protect itself to some extent against unusual price
    volatility and to lock in fixed pricing on oil and natural gas
    production for certain periods of time, National Fuel
    periodically enters into commodity price derivatives contracts
    (hedging arrangements) with respect to a portion of its expected
    production. These contracts may at any time cover as much as
    approximately 70% of National Fuel s expected energy
    production during the upcoming 12 month period. These
    contracts reduce exposure to subsequent price drops but can also
    limit National Fuel s ability to benefit from increases in
    commodity prices.

In addition, under the applicable accounting rules, such hedging
    arrangements are subject to quarterly effectiveness tests.
    Inherent within those effectiveness tests are assumptions
    concerning the long-term price differential between different
    types of crude oil, assumptions concerning the difference
    between published natural gas price indexes established by
    pipelines in which hedged natural gas production is delivered
    and the reference price established in the hedging arrangements,
    and assumptions regarding the levels of production that will be
    achieved. Depending on market conditions for natural gas and
    crude oil and the levels of production actually achieved, it is
    possible that certain of those assumptions may change in the
    future, and, depending on the magnitude of any such changes, it
    is possible that a portion of the Company s hedges may no
    longer be considered highly effective. In that case, gains or
    losses from the ineffective derivative financial instruments
    would be
     marked-to-market 
    on the income statement without regard to an underlying physical
    transaction. Gains would occur to the extent that hedge prices
    exceed market prices, and losses would occur to the extent that
    market prices exceed hedge prices.

Use of energy commodity price hedges also exposes National Fuel
    to the risk of non-performance by a contract counterparty.
    National Fuel carefully evaluates the financial strength of all
    contract counterparties, but these parties might not be able to
    perform their obligations under the hedge arrangements.

14

Table of Contents   

It is National Fuel s policy that the use of commodity
    derivatives contracts be strictly confined to the price hedging
    of existing and forecast production, and National Fuel maintains
    a system of internal controls to monitor compliance with its
    policy. However, unauthorized speculative trades could occur
    that may expose National Fuel to substantial losses to cover
    positions in these contracts. In addition, in the event actual
    production falls short of hedged forecast production, the
    Company may incur substantial losses to cover its hedges.

You
    should not place undue reliance on reserve information because
    such information represents estimates.   

This
     Form 10-K 
    contains estimates of National Fuel s proved oil and
    natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows from those
    reserves that were prepared by National Fuel s petroleum
    engineers and audited by independent petroleum engineers.
    Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions
    in estimating National Fuel s oil and natural gas reserves
    and future net cash flows. These factors include: historical
    production from the area compared with production from other
    producing areas; the assumed effect of governmental regulation;
    and assumptions concerning oil and natural gas prices,
    production and development costs, severance and excise taxes,
    and capital expenditures. Lower oil and natural gas prices
    generally cause estimates of proved reserves to be lower.
    Estimates of reserves and expected future cash flows prepared by
    different engineers, or by the same engineers at different
    times, may differ substantially. Ultimately, actual production,
    revenues and expenditures relating to National Fuel s
    reserves will vary from any estimates, and these variations may
    be material. Accordingly, the accuracy of National Fuel s
    reserve estimates is a function of the quality of available data
    and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment.

If conditions remain constant, then National Fuel is reasonably
    certain that its reserve estimates represent economically
    recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash
    flows. If conditions change in the future, then subsequent
    reserve estimates may be revised accordingly. You should not
    assume that the present value of future net cash flows from
    National Fuel s proved reserves is the current market value
    of National Fuel s estimated oil and natural gas reserves.
    In accordance with SEC requirements, National Fuel bases the
    estimated discounted future net cash flows from its proved
    reserves on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate.
    Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those
    used in the net present value estimate. Any significant price
    changes will have a material effect on the present value of
    National Fuel s reserves.

Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating
    underground accumulations of natural gas and other hydrocarbons
    that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The process of
    estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. The process
    involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation
    of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic
    data for each reservoir. Future economic and operating
    conditions are uncertain, and changes in those conditions could
    cause a revision to National Fuel s future reserve
    estimates. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural
    gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number
    of variable factors and assumptions, including historical
    production from the area compared with production from other
    comparable producing areas, and the assumed effects of
    regulations by governmental agencies. Because all reserve
    estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following
    items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating
    reserves: the quantities of oil and natural gas that are
    ultimately recovered, the timing of the recovery of oil and
    natural gas reserves, the production and operating costs
    incurred, the amount and timing of future development
    expenditures, and the price received for the production.

The
    amount and timing of actual future oil and natural gas
    production and the cost of drilling are difficult to predict and
    may vary significantly from reserves and production estimates,
    which may reduce National Fuel s earnings.   

There are many risks in developing oil and natural gas,
    including numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating
    quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and in
    projecting future rates of production and timing of development
    expenditures. The future success of National Fuel s
    Exploration and Production segment depends on its ability to
    develop additional oil and natural gas reserves that are
    economically recoverable, and its failure to do so may reduce
    National Fuel s earnings. The total and timing of actual
    future production may

15

Table of Contents   

vary significantly from reserves and production estimates.
    National Fuel s drilling of development wells can involve
    significant risks, including those related to timing, success
    rates, and cost overruns, and these risks can be affected by
    lease and rig availability, geology, and other factors. Drilling
    for natural gas can be unprofitable, not only from dry wells,
    but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient
    revenues to return a profit. Also, title problems, weather
    conditions, governmental requirements, and shortages or delays
    in the delivery of equipment and services can delay drilling
    operations or result in their cancellation. The cost of
    drilling, completing, and operating wells is often uncertain,
    and new wells may not be productive or National Fuel may not
    recover all or any portion of its investment. Without continued
    successful exploitation or acquisition activities, National
    Fuel s reserves and revenues will decline as a result of
    its current reserves being depleted by production. National Fuel
    cannot assure you that it will be able to find or acquire
    additional reserves at acceptable costs.

Financial
    accounting requirements regarding exploration and production
    activities may affect National Fuel s
    profitability.   

National Fuel accounts for its exploration and production
    activities under the full cost method of accounting. Each
    quarter, on a
     country-by-country 
    basis, National Fuel must compare the level of its unamortized
    investment in oil and natural gas properties to the present
    value of the future net revenue projected to be recovered from
    those properties according to methods prescribed by the SEC. In
    determining present value, the Company uses quarter-end spot
    prices for oil and natural gas. If, at the end of any quarter,
    the amount of the unamortized investment exceeds the net present
    value of the projected future revenues, such investment may be
    considered to be  impaired,  and the full cost
    accounting rules require that the investment must be written
    down to the calculated net present value. Such an instance would
    require National Fuel to recognize an immediate expense in that
    quarter, and its earnings would be reduced. The event that had
    the most significant impact in 2006, and the main reason for the
    significant earnings decrease over 2005, was the Exploration and
    Production segment recording after-tax impairment charges
    totaling $68.6 million related to its Canadian oil and gas
    assets during 2006 under the full cost method of accounting.
    Because of the variability in National Fuel s investment in
    oil and natural gas properties and the volatile nature of
    commodity prices, National Fuel cannot predict when in the
    future it may again be affected by such an impairment
    calculation.

Environmental
    regulation significantly affects National Fuel s
    business.   

National Fuel s business operations are subject to federal,
    state, and local laws and regulations (including those of
    Canada) relating to environmental protection. These laws and
    regulations concern the generation, storage, transportation,
    disposal or discharge of contaminants into the environment and
    the general protection of public health, natural resources,
    wildlife and the environment. Costs of compliance and
    liabilities could negatively affect National Fuel s results
    of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition,
    compliance with environmental laws and regulations could require
    unexpected capital expenditures at National Fuel s
    facilities. Because the costs of complying with environmental
    regulations are significant, additional regulation could
    negatively affect National Fuel s business. Although
    National Fuel cannot predict the impact of the interpretation or
    enforcement of EPA standards or other federal, state and local
    regulations, National Fuel s costs could increase if
    environmental laws and regulations become more strict.

The
    nature of National Fuel s operations presents inherent
    risks of loss that could adversely affect its results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.   

National Fuel s operations are subject to inherent hazards
    and risks such as: fires; natural disasters; explosions;
    formations with abnormal pressures; blowouts; collapses of
    wellbore casing or other tubulars; pipeline ruptures; spills;
    and other hazards and risks that may cause personal injury,
    death, property damage, environmental damage or business
    interruption losses. Additionally, National Fuel s
    facilities, machinery, and equipment may be subject to sabotage.
    Any of these events could cause a loss of hydrocarbons,
    environmental pollution, claims for personal injury, death,
    property damage or business interruption, or governmental
    investigations, recommendations, claims, fines or penalties. As
    protection against operational hazards, National Fuel maintains
    insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses.
    In addition, many of the

16

Table of Contents   

agreements that National Fuel executes with contractors provide
    for the division of responsibilities between the contractor and
    National Fuel, and National Fuel seeks to obtain an
    indemnification from the contractor for certain of these risks.
    National Fuel is not always able, however, to secure written
    agreements with its contractors that contain indemnification,
    and sometimes National Fuel is required to indemnify others.

Insurance or indemnification agreements when obtained may not
    adequately protect National Fuel against liability from all of
    the consequences of the hazards described above. The occurrence
    of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, the
    imposition of fines, penalties or mandated programs by
    governmental authorities, the failure of a contractor to meet
    its indemnification obligations, or the failure of an insurance
    company to pay valid claims could result in substantial losses
    to National Fuel. In addition, insurance may not be available,
    or if available may not be adequate, to cover any or all of
    these risks. It is also possible that insurance premiums or
    other costs may rise significantly in the future, so as to make
    such insurance prohibitively expensive.

Due to large insurance losses caused by Hurricanes Katrina and
    Rita in 2005, the insurance industry has significantly increased
    premiums for insurance on Gulf of Mexico properties, and has
    reduced the limits typically available for windstorm damage. As
    a result, National Fuel has determined that it is not economical
    to purchase insurance to fully cover its exposures in the Gulf
    of Mexico in the event of a named windstorm. National Fuel has
    procured named windstorm coverage in an amount equal to
    approximately three times the estimated physical damage loss
    sustained by National Fuel as a result of named windstorms
    during the 2005 hurricane season, subject to a deductible of
    $2 million per occurrence. No assurance can be given,
    however, that such amount will be sufficient to cover losses
    that may occur in the future.

Hazards and risks faced by National Fuel, and insurance and
    indemnification obtained or provided by National Fuel, may
    subject National Fuel to litigation or administrative
    proceedings from time to time. Such litigation or proceedings
    could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines or
    penalties against National Fuel or be resolved on unfavorable
    terms, the result of which could have a material adverse effect
    on National Fuel s results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows.

National
    Fuel may be adversely affected by economic
    conditions.   

Periods of slowed economic activity generally result in
    decreased energy consumption, particularly by industrial and
    large commercial companies. As a consequence, national or
    regional recessions or other downturns in economic activity
    could adversely affect National Fuel s revenues and cash
    flows or restrict its future growth. Economic conditions in
    National Fuel s utility service territories also impact its
    collections of accounts receivable.

Item 1B      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

None

Item 2      

Properties   

General
    Information on Facilities  

The investment of the Company in net property, plant and
    equipment was $2.9 billion at September 30, 2006.
    Approximately 61% of this investment was in the Utility and
    Pipeline and Storage segments, which are primarily located in
    western and central New York and northwestern Pennsylvania. The
    Exploration and Production segment, which has the next largest
    investment in net property, plant and equipment (35%), is
    primarily located in California, in the Appalachian region of
    the United States, in Wyoming, in the Gulf Coast region of
    Texas, Louisiana, and Alabama and in the provinces of Alberta,
    Saskatchewan and British Columbia in Canada. The remaining
    investment in net property, plant and equipment consisted
    primarily of the Timber segment (3%) which is located primarily
    in northwestern Pennsylvania, and All Other and Corporate
    operations (1%). During the past five years, the Company has
    made additions to property, plant and equipment in order to
    expand and improve transmission and distribution facilities for
    both retail and transportation customers. Net property, plant
    and equipment has increased $97.0 million, or 3.5%, since
    2001. During 2005, the Company

17

Table of Contents   

sold its majority interest in U.E., a district heating and
    electric generation business in the Czech Republic. The net
    property, plant and equipment of U.E. at the date of sale was
    $223.9 million.

The Utility segment had a net investment in property, plant and
    equipment of $1.1 billion at September 30, 2006. The
    net investment in its gas distribution network (including
    14,809 miles of distribution pipeline) and its service
    connections to customers represent approximately 53% and 33%,
    respectively, of the Utility segment s net investment in
    property, plant and equipment at September 30, 2006.

The Pipeline and Storage segment had a net investment of
    $674.2 million in property, plant and equipment at
    September 30, 2006. Transmission pipeline represents 36% of
    this segment s total net investment and includes
    2,528 miles of pipeline required to move large volumes of
    gas throughout its service area. Storage facilities represent
    24% of this segment s total net investment and consist of
    32 storage fields, four of which are jointly owned and operated
    with certain pipeline suppliers, and 439 miles of pipeline.
    Net investment in storage facilities includes $93.8 million
    of gas stored underground-noncurrent, representing the cost of
    the gas required to maintain pressure levels for normal
    operating purposes as well as gas maintained for system
    balancing and other purposes, including that needed for
    no-notice transportation service. The Pipeline and Storage
    segment has 28 compressor stations with 75,361 installed
    compressor horsepower that represent 13% of this segment s
    total net investment in property, plant and equipment.

The Exploration and Production segment had a net investment in
    property, plant and equipment of $1.0 billion at
    September 30, 2006. Of this amount, $914.2 million
    relates to properties located in the United States. The
    remaining net investment of $88.0 million relates to
    properties located in Canada.

The Timber segment had a net investment in property, plant and
    equipment of $90.9 million at September 30, 2006.
    Located primarily in northwestern Pennsylvania, the net
    investment includes two sawmills, approximately 100,000 acres of
    land and timber, and approximately 4,000 acres of timber
    rights.

The Utility and Pipeline and Storage segments  facilities
    provided the capacity to meet the Company s 2006 peak day
    sendout, including transportation service, of 1,542.4 MMcf,
    which occurred on February 18, 2006. Withdrawals from
    storage of 545.2 MMcf provided approximately 35.3% of the
    requirements on that day.

Company maps are included in exhibit 99.3 of this
     Form 10-K 
    and are incorporated herein by reference.

Exploration
    and Production Activities  

The Company is engaged in the exploration for, and the
    development and purchase of, natural gas and oil reserves in
    California, in the Appalachian region of the United States, and
    in the Gulf Coast region of Texas, Louisiana, and Alabama. Also,
    Exploration and Production operations are conducted in the
    provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and British Columbia in
    Canada. Further discussion of oil and gas producing activities
    is included in Item 8,
     Note O-Supplementary 
    Information for Oil and Gas Producing Activities. Note O
    sets forth proved developed and undeveloped reserve information
    for Seneca. Seneca s proved developed and undeveloped
    natural gas reserves decreased from 238 Bcf at
    September 30, 2005 to 233 Bcf at September 30,
    2006. This decrease can be attributed primarily to production
    and downward reserve revisions related primarily to the Canadian
    properties. These decreases were partially offset by extensions
    and discoveries. The downward reserve revisions were largely a
    function of a significant decrease in gas prices during the
    fourth quarter of 2006. Seneca s proved developed and
    undeveloped oil reserves decreased from 60,257 Mbbl at
    September 30, 2005 to 58,018 Mbbl at
    September 30, 2006. This decrease can be attributed mostly
    to production. Seneca s proved developed and undeveloped
    natural gas reserves increased from 225 Bcf at
    September 30, 2004 to 238 Bcf at September 30,
    2005. This increase can be attributed to the fact that net
    extensions and discoveries outpaced production. However,
    Seneca s proved developed and undeveloped oil reserves
    decreased from 65,213 Mbbl at September 30, 2004 to 60,257
    Mbbl at September 30, 2005. This decrease can be attributed
    to the fact that production outpaced net extensions and
    discoveries.

Seneca s oil and gas reserves reported in Note O as of
    September 30, 2006 were estimated by Seneca s
    geologists and engineers and were audited by independent
    petroleum engineers from Ralph E. Davis Associates, Inc. Seneca
    reports its oil and gas reserve information on an annual basis
    to the Energy Information Administration (EIA), a

18

Table of Contents   

statistical agency of the U.S. Department of Energy. The
    basis of reporting Seneca s reserves to the EIA is
    identical to that reported in Note O.

The following is a summary of certain oil and gas information
    taken from Seneca s records. All monetary amounts are
    expressed in U.S. dollars.

Production  

19

Table of Contents   

Productive
    Wells  

Productive
    Wells  

Developed
    and Undeveloped Acreage  

As of September 30, 2006, the aggregate amount of gross
    undeveloped acreage expiring in the next three years and
    thereafter are as follows: 191,159 acres in 2007
    (128,900 net acres), 112,156 acres in 2008
    (65,174 net acres), 83,246 acres in 2009
    (57,538 net acres), and 657,020 acres thereafter
    (528,525 net acres).

20

Table of Contents   

Drilling
    Activity  

Present
    Activities  

(1)  

Includes wells awaiting completion. 

Item 3      

Legal
    Proceedings   

In an action instituted in the New York State Supreme Court,
    Kings County on February 18, 2003 against Distribution
    Corporation and Paul J. Hissin, an unaffiliated third party,
    plaintiff Donna Fordham-Coleman, as administratrix of the estate
    of Velma Arlene Fordham, alleges that Distribution
    Corporation s denial of natural gas service in November
    2000 to the plaintiff s decedent, Velma Arlene Fordham,
    caused the decedent s death in February 2001. The plaintiff
    sought damages for wrongful death and pain and suffering, plus
    punitive damages. Distribution Corporation denied
    plaintiff s material allegations, asserted seven
    affirmative defenses and asserted a cross-claim against the
    co-defendant. Distribution Corporation believes, and has
    vigorously asserted, that plaintiff s allegations lack
    merit. The Court changed venue of the action to New York State
    Supreme Court, Erie County. Discovery closed in October 2005,
    and Distribution Corporation filed a motion for summary judgment
    in November 2005. On February 24, 2006, the Court granted
    Distribution Corporation s motion for summary

21

Table of Contents   

judgment dismissing plaintiff s claims for wrongful death
    and punitive damages. The Court denied Distribution
    Corporation s motion for summary judgment to dismiss
    plaintiff s negligence claim seeking recovery for conscious
    pain and suffering. On March 15, 2006, the plaintiff
    appealed the Court s decision to the New York State Supreme
    Court, Appellate Division, Fourth Department. On March 29,
    2006, Distribution Corporation filed a cross-appeal. A trial
    date is scheduled for October 15, 2007 (although it is
    possible that the Court may change that date or that a trial may
    become unnecessary, based on the progress or outcome of the
    pending appeals).

On April 7, 2006, the NYPSC, PaPUC and Pennsylvania Office
    of Consumer Advocate filed a complaint and a motion for summary
    disposition against Supply Corporation with the FERC under
    Sections 5(a) and 13 of the Natural Gas Act. For a
    discussion of these matters, refer to Part II,
    Item 7   MD&A of this report under the
    heading  Other Matters   Rate and Regulatory
    Matters. 

On June 8, 2006, the NTSB issued safety recommendations to
    Distribution Corporation, the PaPUC and certain others as a
    result of its investigation of a natural gas explosion that
    occurred on Distribution Corporation s system in Dubois,
    Pennsylvania in August 2004. For a discussion of this matter,
    refer to Part II, Item 7   MD&A of this
    report under the heading  Other Matters   Rate
    and Regulatory Matters. 

The Company believes, based on the information presently known,
    that the ultimate resolution of the above matters will not be
    material to the consolidated financial condition, results of
    operations, or cash flow of the Company.* No assurances can be
    given, however, as to the ultimate outcome of these matters, and
    it is possible that the outcome could be material to results of
    operations or cash flow for a particular quarter or annual
    period.*

For a discussion of various environmental and other matters,
    refer to Item 7, MD&A and Item 8 at
    Note H   Commitments and Contingencies.

In addition to the matters disclosed above, the Company is
    involved in other litigation and regulatory matters arising in
    the normal course of business. These other matters may include,
    for example, negligence claims and tax, regulatory or other
    governmental audits, inspections, investigations or other
    proceedings. These matters may involve state and federal taxes,
    safety, compliance with regulations, rate base, cost of service,
    and purchased gas cost issues, among other things. While these
    normal-course matters could have a material effect on earnings
    and cash flows in the quarterly and annual period in which they
    are resolved, they are not expected to change materially the
    Company s present liquidity position, nor to have a
    material adverse effect on the financial condition of the
    Company.*

Item 4      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the
    quarter ended September 30, 2006.

PART II  

Item 5      

Market
    for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
    Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Information regarding the market for the Company s common
    equity and related stockholder matters appears under
    Item 12 at Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters, Item 8 at
     Note E-Capitalization 
    and Short-Term Borrowings and
     Note N-Market 
    for Common Stock and Related Shareholder Matters (unaudited).

On July 1, 2006, the Company issued a total of 2,100
    unregistered shares of Company common stock to the seven
    non-employee directors of the Company serving on the Board of
    Directors, 300 shares to each such director. All of these
    unregistered shares were issued as partial consideration for
    such directors  services during the quarter ended
    September 30, 2006, pursuant to the Company s Retainer
    Policy for Non-Employee Directors. These transactions were
    exempt from registration under Section 4(2) of the
    Securities Act of 1933, as transactions not involving a public
    offering.

22

Table of Contents   

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

(a)  

Represents (i) shares of common stock of the Company
    purchased on the open market with Company  matching
    contributions  for the accounts of participants in the
    Company s 401(k) plans, (ii) shares of common stock of
    the Company tendered to the Company by holders of stock options
    or shares of restricted stock for the payment of option exercise
    prices or applicable withholding taxes, and (iii) shares of
    common stock of the Company purchased on the open market
    pursuant to the Company s publicly announced share
    repurchase program. Shares purchased other than through a
    publicly announced share repurchase program totaled 349,798 in
    July 2006, 47,155 in August 2006 and 44,902 in September 2006 (a
    three month total of 441,855). Of those shares, 27,499 were
    purchased for the Company s 401(k) plans and 414,356 were
    purchased as a result of shares tendered to the Company by
    holders of stock options or shares of restricted stock. 

(b)  

On December 8, 2005, the Company s Board of Directors
    authorized the repurchase of up to eight million shares of the
    Company s common stock. Repurchases may be made from time
    to time in the open market or through private transactions. 

Item 6      

Selected
    Financial Data(1)   

23

Table of Contents   

24

Table of Contents   

Item 7      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

OVERVIEW  

The Company is a diversified energy company consisting of five
    reportable business segments. Refer to Item I, Business,
    for a more detailed description of each of the segments. This
    Item 7, MD&A, provides information concerning:

1. The critical accounting estimates of the Company;

2. Changes in revenues and earnings of the Company under
    the heading,  Results of Operations; 

3. Operating, investing and financing cash flows under the
    heading  Capital Resources and Liquidity; 

4. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements;

5. Contractual Obligations; and

6. 

Other Matters, including: a.) 2006 and 2007 funding to the
    Company s defined benefit retirement plan and
    post-retirement benefit plan, b.) realizability of deferred tax
    assets, c.) disclosures and tables concerning market risk
    sensitive instruments, d.) rate and regulatory matters in the
    Company s New York, Pennsylvania and FERC regulated
    jurisdictions, e.) environmental matters, and f.) new accounting
    pronouncements.

The information in MD&A should be read in conjunction with
    the Company s financial statements in Item 8 of this
    report.

25

Table of Contents   

The event that had the most significant earnings impact in 2006,
    and the main reason for the significant earnings decrease over
    2005, was the Exploration and Production segment recording
    after-tax impairment charges totaling $68.6 million related
    to its Canadian oil and gas assets during 2006 under the full
    cost method of accounting, which is discussed below under
    Critical Accounting Estimates. In addition, the Company s
    earnings for 2006 as compared to 2005 are impacted by the
    Company s 2005 sale of its entire 85.16% interest in U.E.,
    a district heating and electric generation business in the Czech
    Republic. This sale resulted in a $25.8 million gain in
    2005, net of tax. As a result of the decision to sell its
    majority interest in U.E., the Company began presenting the
    Czech Republic operations as discontinued operations in June
    2005. With this change in presentation, the Company discontinued
    all reporting for an International segment. Any remaining
    international activity has been included in corporate operations
    for all periods presented below. The Company s earnings are
    discussed further in the Results of Operations section that
    follows.

From a capital resources and liquidity perspective, the Company
    spent $294.2 million on capital expenditures during 2006,
    with approximately 71% being spent in the Exploration and
    Production segment. This is in line with the Company s
    expectations. In November 2006, the Company announced that it
    had selected EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) to jointly explore
    approximately 770,000 acres of the Company s mineral
    holdings and 130,000 acres of EOG s mineral holdings
    in Pennsylvania and New York. EOG will be the operator and the
    primary exploration targets are the Devonian black shales, which
    have similar characteristics to the prolific Barnett Shale that
    is actively producing natural gas in the Fort Worth Basin.
    Exploratory drilling is expected to begin in 2007; however, the
    Company does not share in the initial exploratory costs and no
    capital expenditures have been forecasted for 2007 related to
    this joint venture.* Earliest production estimates have
    production starting no sooner than 2008.*

The Company is still pursuing its Empire Connector project to
    expand its natural gas pipeline operations. In July 2006, Empire
    revised the planned in-service date for the Empire Connector to
    extend beyond November 2007, as originally reported. The new
    targeted in-service date is November 2008, or sooner if
    feasible.* On July 20, 2006, FERC issued a Preliminary
    Determination regarding the rate and non-environmental aspects
    of Empire s application for FERC approval. Empire then made
    a compliance filing on September 18, 2006 regarding certain
    non-environmental issues, which is discussed further in the
    Capital Resources and Liquidity section that follows. On
    October 13, 2006, FERC subsequently issued a final
    environmental impact statement on the Empire Connector project
    and the other related downstream projects, indicating that FERC
    has not identified any environmental reasons why those projects
    could not be built. There are no other significant changes in
    the status of the project and the Company continues to await
    final FERC approval to build and operate the project.

The Company also began repurchasing outstanding shares of common
    stock during the quarter ended March 31, 2006 under a share
    repurchase program authorized by the Company s Board of
    Directors. The program authorizes the Company to repurchase up
    to an aggregate amount of 8 million shares. Through
    September 30, 2006, the Company had repurchased
    2,526,550 shares. These matters are discussed further in
    the Capital Resources and Liquidity section that follows.

From a rate and regulatory matters perspective, management is
    concerned with declining usage per customer in the Utility
    segment. It has been one of the items leading to the filing of
    rate cases in New York and Pennsylvania. In Pennsylvania, the
    Company filed a rate case in June 2006 that included a revenue
    decoupling mechanism, or a conservation tracker. A settlement
    for this rate case was reached in October 2006, and while the
    revenue decoupling mechanism was withdrawn in order to achieve
    the settlement, the PaPUC instituted a generic proceeding to
    look at rate mechanisms such as revenue decoupling across the
    state. In New York, there is currently a proceeding going on to
    examine revenue decoupling mechanisms.

Lastly, on April 7, 2006, the NYPSC, PaPUC and Pennsylvania
    Office of Consumer Advocate filed a complaint and motion for
    summary disposition against Supply Corporation with the FERC.
    The complainants alleged that Supply Corporation s rates
    were unjust and unreasonable, and that Supply Corporation was
    permitted to retain more gas from shippers than it needed for
    fuel and loss. It also asked FERC to determine whether Supply
    Corporation had the authority to make sales of gas retained from
    shippers (which are referred to under  Results of
    Operations  as  unbundled pipeline sales ). On
    September 26, 2006, the active parties

26

Table of Contents   

reached a settlement in principle. On November 17, 2006,
    Supply Corporation filed a motion asking FERC to approve an
    uncontested settlement of the proceeding. The proposed
    settlement would be implemented when and if FERC approves the
    settlement, but if approved would be effective as of
    December 1, 2006. This matter, including the primary
    elements of the settlement, is discussed more fully in the Rate
    and Regulatory Matters section that follows.

CRITICAL
    ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES  

The Company has prepared its consolidated financial statements
    in conformity with GAAP. The preparation of these financial
    statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
    disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
    the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
    and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
    differ from those estimates. In the event estimates or
    assumptions prove to be different from actual results,
    adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more
    current information. The following is a summary of the
    Company s most critical accounting estimates, which are
    defined as those estimates whereby judgments or uncertainties
    could affect the application of accounting policies and
    materially different amounts could be reported under different
    conditions or using different assumptions. For a complete
    discussion of the Company s significant accounting
    policies, refer to Item 8 at Note A  
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.

Oil and Gas Exploration and Development
    Costs.   In the Company s Exploration and
    Production segment, oil and gas property acquisition,
    exploration and development costs are capitalized under the full
    cost method of accounting. Under this accounting methodology,
    all costs associated with property acquisition, exploration and
    development activities are capitalized, including internal costs
    directly identified with acquisition, exploration and
    development activities. The internal costs that are capitalized
    do not include any costs related to production, general
    corporate overhead, or similar activities.

The Company believes that determining the amount of the
    Company s proved reserves is a critical accounting
    estimate. Proved reserves are estimated quantities of reserves
    that, based on geologic and engineering data, appear with
    reasonable certainty to be producible under existing economic
    and operating conditions. Such estimates of proved reserves are
    inherently imprecise and may be subject to substantial revisions
    as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to,
    additional development activity, evolving production history and
    continual reassessment of the viability of production under
    varying economic conditions. The estimates involved in
    determining proved reserves are critical accounting estimates
    because they serve as the basis over which capitalized costs are
    depleted under the full cost method of accounting (on a
     units-of-production 
    basis). Unevaluated properties are excluded from the depletion
    calculation until they are evaluated. Once they are evaluated,
    costs associated with these properties are transferred to the
    pool of costs being depleted.

In addition to depletion under the
     units-of-production 
    method, proved reserves are a major component in the SEC full
    cost ceiling test. The full cost ceiling test is an impairment
    test prescribed by SEC
     Regulation S-X 
     Rule 4-10. 
    The ceiling test is performed on a
     country-by-country 
    basis and determines a limit, or ceiling, to the amount of
    property acquisition, exploration and development costs that can
    be capitalized. The ceiling under this test represents
    (a) the present value of estimated future net revenues
    using a discount factor of 10%, which is computed by applying
    current market prices of oil and gas (as adjusted for hedging)
    to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as
    of the date of the latest balance sheet, less estimated future
    expenditures, plus (b) the cost of unevaluated properties
    not being depleted, less (c) income taxes. The estimates of
    future production and future expenditures are based on internal
    budgets that reflect planned production from current wells and
    expenditures necessary to sustain such future production. The
    amount of the ceiling can fluctuate significantly from period to
    period because of additions or subtractions to proved reserves
    and significant fluctuations in oil and gas prices. The ceiling
    is then compared to the capitalized cost of oil and gas
    properties less accumulated depletion and related deferred
    income taxes. If the capitalized costs of oil and gas properties
    less accumulated depletion and related deferred taxes exceeds
    the ceiling at the end of any fiscal quarter, a non-cash
    impairment must be recorded to write down the book value of the
    reserves to their present

27

Table of Contents   

value. This non-cash impairment cannot be reversed at a later
    date if the ceiling increases. It should also be noted that a
    non-cash impairment to write down the book value of the reserves
    to their present value in any given period causes a reduction in
    future depletion expense. Because of the decline in the price of
    natural gas during the third and fourth quarters of 2006, the
    book value of the Company s Canadian oil and gas properties
    exceeded the ceiling at both June 30, 2006 and
    September 30, 2006. Consequently, SECI recorded impairment
    charges of $62.4 million ($39.5 million after-tax) in
    the third quarter of 2006 and $42.3 million
    ($29.1 million after-tax) in the fourth quarter of 2006.
    Further decreases in the price of natural gas, absent the
    addition of new reserves, could result in future impairments.*

It is difficult to predict what factors could lead to future
    impairments under the SEC s full cost ceiling test. As
    discussed above, fluctuations or subtractions to proved reserves
    and significant fluctuations in oil and gas prices have an
    impact on the amount of the ceiling at any point in time.

Regulation.   The Company is subject to
    regulation by certain state and federal authorities. The
    Company, in its Utility and Pipeline and Storage segments, has
    accounting policies which conform to SFAS 71, and which are
    in accordance with the accounting requirements and ratemaking
    practices of the regulatory authorities. The application of
    these accounting policies allows the Company to defer expenses
    and income on the balance sheet as regulatory assets and
    liabilities when it is probable that those expenses and income
    will be allowed in the ratesetting process in a period different
    from the period in which they would have been reflected in the
    income statement by an unregulated company. These deferred
    regulatory assets and liabilities are then flowed through the
    income statement in the period in which the same amounts are
    reflected in rates. Management s assessment of the
    probability of recovery or pass through of regulatory assets and
    liabilities requires judgment and interpretation of laws and
    regulatory commission orders. If, for any reason, the Company
    ceases to meet the criteria for application of regulatory
    accounting treatment for all or part of its operations, the
    regulatory assets and liabilities related to those portions
    ceasing to meet such criteria would be eliminated from the
    balance sheet and included in the income statement for the
    period in which the discontinuance of regulatory accounting
    treatment occurs. Such amounts would be classified as an
    extraordinary item. For further discussion of the Company s
    regulatory assets and liabilities, refer to Item 8 at
    Note C   Regulatory Matters.

Accounting for Derivative Financial
    Instruments.   The Company, in its Exploration and
    Production segment, Energy Marketing segment, Pipeline and
    Storage segment and All Other category, uses a variety of
    derivative financial instruments to manage a portion of the
    market risk associated with fluctuations in the price of natural
    gas and crude oil. These instruments are categorized as price
    swap agreements, no cost collars, options and futures contracts.
    The Company, in its Pipeline and Storage segment, uses an
    interest rate collar to limit interest rate fluctuations on
    certain variable rate debt. In accordance with the provisions of
    SFAS 133, the Company accounts for these instruments as
    effective cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. As such, gains
    or losses associated with the derivative financial instruments
    are matched with gains or losses resulting from the underlying
    physical transaction that is being hedged. To the extent that
    the derivative financial instruments would ever be deemed to be
    ineffective based on the effectiveness testing,
     mark-to-market 
    gains or losses from the derivative financial instruments would
    be recognized in the income statement without regard to an
    underlying physical transaction. As discussed below, the Company
    was required to discontinue hedge accounting for a portion of
    its derivative financial instruments, resulting in a charge to
    earnings in 2005.

The Company uses both exchange-traded and non exchange-traded
    derivative financial instruments. The fair value of the non
    exchange-traded derivative financial instruments are based on
    valuations determined by the counterparties. Refer to the
     Market Risk Sensitive Instruments  section below for
    further discussion of the Company s derivative financial
    instruments.

Pension and Other Post-Retirement
    Benefits.   The amounts reported in the
    Company s financial statements related to its pension and
    other post-retirement benefits are determined on an actuarial
    basis, which uses many assumptions in the calculation of such
    amounts. These assumptions include the discount rate, the
    expected return on plan assets, the rate of compensation
    increase and, for other post-retirement benefits, the expected
    annual rate of increase in per capita cost of covered medical
    and prescription benefits. The discount rate used by the Company
    is equal to the Moody s Aa Long-Term Corporate Bond index,
    rounded to the nearest 25 basis points. The duration of the
    securities underlying that index (approximately 13 years)
    reasonably matches the

28

Table of Contents   

expected timing of anticipated future benefit payments
    (approximately 12 years). The expected return on plan
    assets assumption used by the Company reflects the anticipated
    long-term rate of return on the plan s current and future
    assets. The Company utilizes historical investment data,
    projected capital market conditions, and the plan s target
    asset class and investment manager allocations to set the
    assumption regarding the expected return on plan assets. Changes
    in actuarial assumptions and actuarial experience could have a
    material impact on the amount of pension and post-retirement
    benefit costs and funding requirements experienced by the
    Company.* However, the Company expects to recover substantially
    all of its net periodic pension and other post-retirement
    benefit costs attributable to employees in its Utility and
    Pipeline and Storage segments in accordance with the applicable
    regulatory commission authorization.* For financial reporting
    purposes, the difference between the amounts of pension cost and
    post-retirement benefit cost recoverable in rates and the
    amounts of such costs as determined under applicable accounting
    principles is recorded as either a regulatory asset or
    liability, as appropriate, as discussed above under
     Regulation.  Pension and post-retirement benefit
    costs for the Utility and Pipeline and Storage segments
    represented 96% and 97%, respectively, of the Company s
    total pension and post-retirement benefit costs as determined
    under SFAS 87 and SFAS 106 for the years ended
    September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005.

Changes in actuarial assumptions and actuarial experience could
    also have an impact on the benefit obligation and the funded
    status related to the Company s pension and post-retirement
    benefit plans and could impact the Company s equity. For
    example, the discount rate used to determine benefit obligations
    was changed from 5.0% in 2005 to 6.25% in 2006. The change in
    the discount rate reduced the pension plan projected benefit
    obligation by $113.1 million and the accumulated
    post-retirement benefit obligation by $77.5 million. As a
    result of the discount rate change, the Company no longer had to
    record a minimum pension liability adjustment at
    September 30, 2006, resulting in an increase to other
    comprehensive income of $107.8 million, as shown in the
    Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Other examples
    include actual versus expected return on plan assets, which has
    an impact on the funded status of the plans, and actual versus
    expected benefit payments, which has an impact on the pension
    plan projected benefit obligations and the accumulated
    post-retirement benefit obligation for the Post-Retirement Plan.
    For 2006, actual versus expected return on plan assets resulted
    in an increase to the funded status of the Retirement Plan and
    the Post-Retirement Plan of $18.7 million and
    $12.5 million, respectively. The actual versus expected
    benefit payments for 2006 caused a decrease of $1.0 million
    and $0.3 million to the projected benefit obligation and
    accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation, respectively. In
    calculating the projected benefit obligation for the Retirement
    Plan and the accumulated post-retirement obligation for the
    Post-Retirement Plan, the actuary takes into account the average
    remaining service life of active participants. The average
    remaining service life of active participants in the Retirement
    Plan is 10 years. The average remaining service life of
    active participants in the Post-Retirement Plan is 9 years.
    For further discussion of the Company s pension and other
    post-retirement benefits, refer to Other Matters in this
    Item 7 and to Item 8 at Note G  
    Retirement Plan and Other Post Retirement Benefits.

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS  

EARNINGS  

2006
    Compared with 2005  

The Company s earnings were $138.1 million in 2006
    compared with earnings of $189.5 million in 2005. As
    previously discussed, the Company presented its Czech Republic
    operations as discontinued operations in conjunction with the
    sale of U.E. The Company s earnings from continuing
    operations were $138.1 million in 2006 compared with
    $153.5 million in 2005. The Company s earnings from
    discontinued operations were zero in 2006 compared with
    $36.0 million in 2005. The decrease in earnings from
    continuing operations of $15.4 million is primarily the
    result of lower earnings in the Exploration and Production and
    Pipeline and Storage segments offset somewhat by higher earnings
    in the Utility segment, Energy Marketing segment, Timber
    segment, and All Other category and a lower loss in the
    Corporate category, as shown in the table below. The decrease in
    earnings from discontinued operations reflects the
    non-recurrence of the gain on the sale of U.E. recognized in
    2005. In the discussion that follows, note that all amounts used
    in the earnings discussions are

29

Table of Contents   

after tax amounts. Earnings from continuing operations and
    discontinued operations were impacted by several events in 2006
    and 2005, including:

$68.6 million of impairment charges related to the
    Exploration and Production segment s Canadian oil and gas
    assets under the full cost method of accounting using natural
    gas pricing at June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006;

An $11.2 million benefit to earnings in the Exploration and
    Production segment related to income tax adjustments recognized
    during 2006; and

A $2.6 million benefit to earnings in the Utility segment
    related to the correction of a regulatory mechanism calculation.

A $25.8 million gain on the sale of U.E., which was
    completed in July 2005. This amount is included in earnings from
    discontinued operations;

A $2.6 million gain in the Pipeline and Storage segment
    associated with a FERC approved sale of base gas;

A $3.9 million gain in the Pipeline and Storage segment
    associated with insurance proceeds received in prior years for
    which a contingency was resolved during 2005;

A $3.3 million loss related to certain derivative financial
    instruments that no longer qualified as effective hedges;

A $2.7 million impairment in the value of the
    Company s 50% investment in ESNE (recorded in the All Other
    category), a limited liability company that owns an 80-megawatt,
    combined cycle, natural gas-fired power plant in the town of
    North East, Pennsylvania; and

A $1.8 million impairment of a gas-powered turbine in the
    All Other category that the Company had planned to use in the
    development of a co-generation plant.

2005
    Compared with 2004  

The Company s earnings were $189.5 million in 2005
    compared with earnings of $166.6 million in 2004. As
    previously discussed, the Company has presented its Czech
    Republic operations as discontinued operations. The
    Company s earnings from continuing operations were
    $153.5 million in 2005 compared with $154.3 million in
    2004. The Company s earnings from discontinued operations
    were $36.0 million in 2005 compared with $12.3 million
    in 2004. Earnings from continuing operations did not change
    significantly as higher earnings in the Pipeline and Storage
    segment were largely offset by lower earnings in the Utility and
    Exploration and Production segments and a higher loss in the All
    Other category. The increase in earnings from discontinued
    operations resulted from the gain on the sale of U.E. in 2005.
    Earnings from continuing operations and discontinued operations
    were impacted by the 2005 events discussed above and the
    following 2004 events:

2004
    Events   

A $5.2 million reduction to deferred income tax expense
    resulting from a change in the statutory income tax rate in the
    Czech Republic. This amount is included in earnings from
    discontinued operations;

Settlement of a pension obligation which resulted in the
    recording of additional expense amounting to $6.4 million,
    allocated among the segments as follows: $2.2 million to
    the Utility segment ($1.2 million in the New York
    jurisdiction and $1.0 million in the Pennsylvania
    jurisdiction), $2.0 million to the Pipeline and Storage
    segment ($1.8 million to Supply Corporation and
    $0.2 million to Empire State Pipeline), $0.9 million
    to the Exploration and Production segment, $0.3 million to
    the Energy Marketing segment and $1.0 million to the
    Corporate and All Other categories;

30

Table of Contents   

An adjustment to the 2003 sale of the Company s Southeast
    Saskatchewan oil and gas properties in the Exploration and
    Production segment which increased 2004 earnings by
    $4.6 million; and

An adjustment to the Company s 2003 sale of its timber
    properties in the Timber segment, which reduced 2004 earnings by
    $0.8 million.

Additional discussion of earnings in each of the business
    segments can be found in the business segment information that
    follows.

Earnings
    (Loss) by Segment  

(1)  

Includes earnings from the former International segment s
    activity other than the activity from the Czech Republic
    operations included in Earnings from Discontinued Operations. 

UTILITY  

Revenues  

Utility
    Operating Revenues  

31

Table of Contents   

Utility
    Throughput   million cubic feet (MMcf)  

Degree
    Days  

2006
    Compared with 2005  

Operating revenues for the Utility segment increased
    $163.7 million in 2006 compared with 2005. This increase
    largely resulted from a $146.5 million increase in retail
    gas sales revenues. Transportation revenues and other revenues
    also increased by $8.9 million and $8.3 million,
    respectively.

The increase in retail gas sales revenues for the Utility
    segment was largely a function of the recovery of higher gas
    costs (gas costs are recovered dollar for dollar in revenues),
    which more than offset the revenue impact of lower retail sales
    volumes, as shown in the table above. See further discussion of
    purchased gas below under the heading  Purchased Gas. 
    Warmer weather, as shown in the table above, and greater
    conservation by customers due to higher natural gas commodity
    prices, were the principal reasons for the decrease in retail
    sales volumes.

The increase in transportation revenues was primarily due to a
    $5.9 million increase in the New York jurisdiction s
    calculation of the symmetrical sharing component of the gas
    adjustment rate. The symmetrical sharing component is a
    mechanism included in Distribution Corporation s New York
    rate settlement that shares with customers 90% of the difference
    between actual revenues received from large volume customers and
    the level of revenues that were projected to be received during
    the rate year. Of the $5.9 million increase,
    $3.9 million was due to an
     out-of-period 
    adjustment recorded in fiscal year 2006 when it was determined
    that certain credits that had been included in the calculation
    should have been removed during the implementation of a previous
    rate case. The adjustment related to fiscal years 2002 through
    2005.

The impact of the August 2005 New York rate case settlement was
    to increase operating revenues by $19.1 million (of which
    $12.4 million was an increase to other operating revenues).
    This increase consisted of a base rate increase, the
    implementation of a merchant function charge, the elimination of
    certain bill credits, and the elimination of the gross receipts
    tax surcharge. The settlement also allowed Distribution
    Corporation to continue to utilize certain refunds from upstream
    pipeline companies and certain other credits (referred to as the
     cost mitigation reserve ) to offset certain specific
    expense items. In 2005, Distribution Corporation utilized

32

Table of Contents   

$7.8 million of the cost mitigation reserve, which
    increased other operating revenues, to recover previous
    under-collections of pension and post-retirement expenses. The
    impact of that increase in other operating revenues was offset
    by an equal amount of operation and maintenance expense (thus
    there was no earnings impact). Distribution Corporation did not
    record any entries involving the cost mitigation reserve in
    2006. Other operating revenues was also impacted by two
     out-of-period 
    regulatory adjustments recorded during 2005. The first
    adjustment related to the final settlement with the Staff of the
    NYPSC of the earnings sharing liability for the 2001 to 2003
    time period. As a result of that settlement, the New York rate
    jurisdiction recorded additional earnings sharing expense (as an
    offset to other operating revenues) of $0.9 million. The
    second adjustment related to a regulatory liability recorded for
    previous over-collections of New York State gross receipts tax.
    In preparing for the implementation of the settlement agreement
    in New York, the Company determined that it needed to adjust
    that regulatory liability by $3.1 million (of which
    $1.0 million was recorded as a reduction of other operating
    revenues and $2.1 million was recorded as additional
    interest expense) related to fiscal years 2004 and prior. These
    adjustments did not recur in 2006.

In the Pennsylvania jurisdiction, the impact of the base rate
    increase, which became effective in mid-April 2005, was to
    increase operating revenues by $7.5 million. This increase
    is included within both retail and transportation revenues in
    the table above.

2005
    Compared with 2004  

Operating revenues for the Utility segment decreased
    $35.6 million in 2005 compared with 2004. This resulted
    primarily from the absence of off-system sales revenues of
    $106.8 million, offset by an increase of $64.4 million
    in retail revenues. Effective September 22, 2004,
    Distribution Corporation stopped making off-system sales as a
    result of the FERC s Order 2004,  Standards of Conduct
    for Transmission Providers.  However, due to profit sharing
    with retail customers, the margins resulting from off-system
    sales have been minimal and there was not a material impact to
    margins in 2005. The increase in retail revenues was primarily
    the result of the recovery of higher gas costs (gas costs are
    recovered dollar for dollar in revenues), colder weather in the
    Pennsylvania jurisdiction and the impact of base rate increases
    in both New York and Pennsylvania. The recovery of higher gas
    costs resulted from a much higher cost of purchased gas. See
    further discussion of purchased gas below under the heading
     Purchased Gas.  Lower retail sales volumes, due
    primarily to lower customer usage per account, partially offset
    the increase in retail revenues associated with the recovery of
    higher gas costs and the base rate increases. Also, retail
    industrial sales revenue declined due to fuel switching and
    production declines of certain large volume industrial customers
    as a result of a general economic downturn in the Utility
    segment s service territory.

The increase in other operating revenues of $3.8 million is
    largely related to amounts recorded pursuant to rate settlements
    with the NYPSC. In accordance with these settlements,
    Distribution Corporation was allowed to utilize certain refunds
    from upstream pipeline companies and certain other credits
    (referred to as the  cost mitigation reserve ) to
    offset certain specific expense items, as discussed above.

Purchased
    Gas  

The cost of purchased gas is the Company s single largest
    operating expense. Annual variations in purchased gas costs are
    attributed directly to changes in gas sales volumes, the price
    of gas purchased and the operation of purchased gas adjustment
    clauses.

Currently, Distribution Corporation has contracted for long-term
    firm transportation capacity with Supply Corporation and six
    other upstream pipeline companies, for long-term gas supplies
    with a combination of producers and marketers, and for storage
    service with Supply Corporation and three nonaffiliated
    companies. In addition, Distribution Corporation satisfies a
    portion of its gas requirements through spot market purchases.
    Changes in wellhead prices have a direct impact on the cost of
    purchased gas. Distribution Corporation s average cost of
    purchased gas, including the cost of transportation and storage,
    was $12.07 per Mcf in 2006, an increase of 31% from the
    average cost of $9.19 per Mcf in 2005. The average cost of
    purchased gas in 2005 was 26% higher than the average cost of
    $7.30 per Mcf in 2004. Additional discussion of the Utility
    segment s gas purchases appears under the heading
     Sources and Availability of Raw Materials  in
    Item 1.

33

Table of Contents   

Earnings  

2006
    Compared with 2005  

The Utility segment s earnings in 2006 were
    $49.8 million, an increase of $10.6 million when
    compared with earnings of $39.2 million in 2005.

In the New York jurisdiction, earnings increased by
    $9.2 million, primarily due to the positive impact of the
    rate case settlement in this jurisdiction that became effective
    August 2005 ($13.7 million). In addition, the increase in
    the New York jurisdiction s calculation of the symmetrical
    sharing component of the gas adjustment rate, including the
     out-of-period 
    adjustment discussed above, contributed $3.9 million to
    earnings. Two
     out-of-period 
    regulatory adjustments recorded during fiscal year 2005 that did
    not recur during 2006, as discussed above, also contributed an
    additional $2.6 million to earnings. The first adjustment,
    related to the final settlement with the Staff of the NYPSC of
    the earnings sharing liability for the fiscal 2001 through 2003
    time period, increased earnings in fiscal 2006 by
    $0.6 million. The second adjustment, related to a
    regulatory liability recorded for previous over-collections of
    New York State gross receipts tax, increased earnings in fiscal
    2006 by $2.0 million. The increase in earnings due to the
    New York rate case settlement, the symmetrical sharing component
    of the gas adjustment rate, and the two
     out-of-period 
    regulatory adjustments recorded in 2005, was partially offset by
    a decline in margin associated with lower weather-normalized
    usage by customers ($2.3 million), higher operation
    expenses ($2.5 million), higher interest expense
    ($2.7 million), and a higher effective income tax rate
    ($3.2 million). The higher effective income tax rate is due
    to positive tax adjustments recorded in 2005 that did not recur
    in 2006. The increase in operation expenses consisted primarily
    of higher pension expense offset by lower bad debt expense.

In the Pennsylvania jurisdiction, earnings increased by
    $1.4 million, due to the positive impact of the rate case
    settlement in this jurisdiction that became effective April 2005
    ($4.9 million), and lower operation expenses
    ($1.8 million). The decrease in operation expenses
    consisted primarily of lower bad debt expense offset partially
    by higher pension expense. These increases to earnings were
    partially offset by the impact of warmer than normal weather in
    Pennsylvania ($3.0 million), lower weather-normalized usage
    by customer ($0.6 million), higher interest expense
    ($0.8 million), and a higher effective tax rate
    ($1.3 million).

The decrease in bad debt expense reflects the fact that in the
    fourth quarter of 2005, the New York and Pennsylvania
    jurisdictions increased the allowance for uncollectible accounts
    to reflect the increase in final billed account balances and the
    increased aging of outstanding active receivables heading into
    the heating season. A similar adjustment was not required in
    2006.

The impact of weather on the Utility segment s New York
    rate jurisdiction is tempered by a WNC. The WNC, which covers
    the eight-month period from October through May, has had a
    stabilizing effect on earnings for the New York rate
    jurisdiction. In addition, in periods of colder than normal
    weather, the WNC benefits the Utility segment s New York
    customers. In 2006, the WNC preserved earnings of approximately
    $6.2 million because it was warmer than normal in the New
    York service territory. In 2005, the WNC did not have a
    significant impact on earnings.

2005
    Compared with 2004  

The Utility segment s earnings in 2005 were
    $39.2 million, a decrease of $7.5 million when
    compared with earnings of $46.7 million in 2004. The major
    factors driving this decrease were lower weather-normalized
    usage per customer account in both the New York and Pennsylvania
    jurisdictions ($8.2 million) and an increase in bad debt
    expenses of $6.7 million. The increase in bad debt expenses
    is attributable to the increase in the allowance for
    uncollectible accounts to reflect the increase in final billed
    balances, as well as the increased age of outstanding
    receivables heading into the heating season. These negative
    factors were partially offset by the impact of base rate
    increases in both New York and Pennsylvania ($3.9 million)
    and the recording of accrued interest on a pension related asset
    in accordance with the New York rate case settlement agreement
    ($2.4 million), as well as the impact of colder than normal
    weather in Pennsylvania ($1.0 million). The earnings impact
    of the two
     out-of-period 
    regulatory adjustments discussed above was largely offset by
    lower interest expense on borrowings due to lower debt balances.

34

Table of Contents   

In 2005, the WNC did not have a significant impact on earnings.
    For 2004, the WNC preserved earnings of approximately
    $1.0 million because it was warmer than normal in the New
    York service territory.

PIPELINE
    AND STORAGE  

Revenues  

Pipeline
    and Storage Operating Revenues  

Pipeline
    and Storage Throughput   (MMcf)  

2006
    Compared with 2005  

Operating revenues for the Pipeline and Storage segment
    decreased $1.5 million in 2006 as compared with 2005. This
    decrease consisted of a $4.5 million decrease in other
    revenues offset by a $1.8 million increase in firm and
    interruptible transportation revenues and a $1.2 million
    increase in firm and interruptible storage service revenues. The
    decrease in other revenues is primarily due to a
    $2.6 million decrease in revenues from unbundled pipeline
    sales, due to lower natural gas prices, as well as a
    $0.7 million decrease in cashout revenues. Cashout revenues
    are completely offset by purchased gas expense. The increase in
    firm and interruptible transportation revenues is due to
    additional contracts with customers and the renewal of contracts
    at higher rates, both of which reflect the increased demand for
    transportation services due to market conditions resulting from
    the effects of hurricane damage to production and pipeline
    infrastructure in the Gulf of Mexico during the fall of 2005.
    While Supply Corporation s transportation volumes increased
    during the year, volume fluctuations generally do not have a
    significant impact on revenues as a result of Supply
    Corporation s straight fixed-variable rate design. The
    increase in storage revenues reflects the renewal of storage
    contracts at higher rates.

2005
    Compared with 2004  

Operating revenues for the Pipeline and Storage segment
    increased $6.2 million in 2005 as compared with 2004. This
    increase is primarily attributable to higher revenues from
    unbundled pipeline sales of $5.5 million included in other
    revenues in the table above, due to higher natural gas prices.
    Higher cashout revenues of $1.1 million, reported as part
    of other revenues in the table above, also contributed to the
    increase. Cashout revenues are completely offset by purchased
    gas expense. In addition, interruptible transportation revenues
    increased by $1.3 million, primarily due to an increase in
    Supply Corporation s gathering revenues, and firm

35

Table of Contents   

storage revenues increased $1.4 million, primarily due to
    higher rate agreements contracted with Supply Corporation
    customers. Offsetting these increases, the decrease in firm
    transportation revenues of $3.3 million reflects the
    cancellation of contracts with Supply Corporation by certain
    large usage non-affiliated customers ($2.6 million) and the
    Utility segment s cancellation of a portion of its firm
    transportation with Supply Corporation in April 2005
    ($0.6 million). In addition, firm transportation revenues
    decreased by $1.0 million because Supply Corporation no
    longer charges customers a surcharge for its membership to the
    Gas Research Institute (GRI). The decrease in revenues resulting
    from cancellation of the GRI surcharge was completely offset by
    lower operation expense. While Supply Corporation s
    transportation volumes increased during the year, volume
    fluctuations generally do not have a significant impact on
    revenues as a result of Supply Corporation s straight
    fixed-variable rate design. Offsetting the decreases in Supply
    Corporation s firm transportation revenues was a
    $1.0 million increase in Empire s firm transportation
    revenues, primarily due to an increase in transportation volumes.

Earnings  

2006
    Compared with 2005  

The Pipeline and Storage segment s earnings in 2006 were
    $55.6 million, a decrease of $4.9 million when
    compared with earnings of $60.5 million in 2005. The
    decrease reflects the non-recurrence of two events, a
    $2.6 million gain on a FERC approved sale of base gas in
    2005 and a $3.9 million gain associated with insurance
    proceeds received in prior years for which a contingency was
    resolved in 2005. Both of these items were recorded in Other
    Income. It also reflects the earnings impact associated with
    lower revenues from unbundled pipeline sales ($1.7 million)
    and higher operation expenses ($0.6 million). These
    earnings decreases were offset by the positive earnings impact
    of higher transportation and storage revenues
    ($2.0 million), lower depreciation due to the
    non-recurrence of a write-down of the Company s former
    corporate office in 2005 ($0.9 million), and the earnings
    benefit associated with a lower effective tax rate
    ($1.7 million).

2005
    Compared with 2004  

The Pipeline and Storage segment s earnings in 2005 were
    $60.5 million, an increase of $12.8 million when
    compared with earnings of $47.7 million in 2004.
    Contributing to the increase was a gain of $3.9 million
    associated with the insurance proceeds received in prior years
    for which a contingency was resolved during 2005. The other main
    factors contributing to the increase were higher revenues from
    unbundled pipeline sales ($3.6 million), lower interest
    expense ($2.4 million), $2.0 million of expense that
    did not recur in 2005 associated with the settlement of a
    pension obligation recognized in 2004, as well as a
    $2.6 million gain on the FERC approved sale of base gas in
    March, 2005. An increase in the reserve for preliminary project
    costs associated with the Empire Connector project
    ($1.8 million) partially offset these increases.

EXPLORATION
    AND PRODUCTION  

Revenues  

Exploration
    and Production Operating Revenues  

36

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Represents the elimination of certain West Coast gas production
    revenue included in  Gas (after Hedging)  in the table
    above that is sold to the gas processing plant shown in the
    table above. An elimination for the same dollar amount was made
    to reduce the gas processing plant s Purchased Gas expense. 

Production
    Volumes  

Average
    Prices  

(1)  

Refer to further discussion of hedging activities below under
     Market Risk Sensitive Instruments  and in
    Note F   Financial Instruments in Item 8 of
    this report. 

(2)   

Includes low gravity oil which generally sells for a lower price. 

2006
    Compared with 2005  

Operating revenues for the Exploration and Production segment
    increased $53.5 million in 2006 as compared with 2005. Oil
    production revenue after hedging increased $40.5 million
    due primarily to higher

37

Table of Contents   

weighted average prices after hedging ($13.24 per barrel).
    This increase was offset slightly by a decrease in production
    (261,000 barrels). Gas production revenue after hedging
    increased $2.6 million. Increases in the weighted average
    price of gas after hedging ($0.92 per Mcf) more than offset
    an overall decrease in gas production (3,408 MMcf). The
    decrease in gas production occurred primarily in the Gulf Coast
    (a 3,358 MMcf decline), which is partly attributable to
    last fall s hurricane damage and partly attributable to the
    expected decline rates for the Company s production in the
    region. Other revenues increased $6.5 million largely due
    to the non-recurrence of a $5.1 million
     mark-to-market 
    adjustment, recorded in 2005, for losses on certain derivative
    financial instruments that no longer qualified as effective
    hedges due to the anticipated delays in oil and gas production
    volumes caused by Hurricane Rita.

Refer to further discussion of derivative financial instruments
    in the  Market Risk Sensitive Instruments  section
    that follows. Refer to the tables above for production and price
    information.

2005
    Compared with 2004  

Operating revenues for the Exploration and Production segment
    decreased $0.3 million in 2005 as compared with 2004. Oil
    production revenue after hedging decreased $11.8 million
    due to a 659 Mbbl decline in production offset partly by higher
    weighted average prices after hedging ($1.46 per barrel).
    Most of the decrease in oil production occurred in the Gulf
    Coast Region (a 545 Mbbl decrease). Gas production revenue after
    hedging increased $14.6 million. Increases in the weighted
    average price of gas after hedging ($1.17 per Mcf) more
    than offset an overall decrease in gas production
    (3,834 MMcf). Most of the decrease in gas production
    occurred in the Gulf Coast (a 5,128 MMcf decline). The
    decreases in Gulf Coast oil and gas production are consistent
    with the expected decline rates in the region. This decrease in
    Gulf Coast gas production was partially offset by a
    1,781 MMcf increase in Canadian gas production. The
    increase in Canadian gas production is attributable to the
    Sukunka 60-E well, in which the Company has a 20% working
    interest. Other revenues decreased $4.5 million largely due
    to a $5.1 million
     mark-to-market 
    adjustment for losses on certain derivative financial
    instruments that no longer qualified as effective hedges due to
    the anticipated delays in oil and gas production volumes caused
    by Hurricane Rita. These volumes were originally forecast to be
    produced in the first quarter of 2006.

Refer to further discussion of derivative financial instruments
    in the  Market Risk Sensitive Instruments  section
    that follows. Refer to the tables above for production and price
    information.

Earnings  

2006
    Compared with 2005  

The Exploration and Production segment s earnings in 2006
    were $21.0 million, a decrease of $29.7 million when
    compared with earnings of $50.7 million in 2005. The
    decrease is primarily the result of the impairment charges of
    $68.6 million on this segment s Canadian oil and gas
    producing properties. Also, lower oil and gas production
    decreased earnings by $18.5 million. Further contributing
    to the decrease were higher lease operating expenses
    ($3.2 million), higher general and administrative and other
    operating costs ($2.0 million) and higher depletion expense
    ($2.5 million). The increase in lease operating expenses
    was primarily in the West Coast region due to higher steaming
    costs associated with heavy crude oil production in the
    California Midway-Sunset and North Lost Hills fields. The higher
    steaming costs are due to an increase in the price for natural
    gas purchased in the field and used in the steaming operations,
    primarily in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, compared to the
    second quarter of fiscal 2005. Beginning in April 2006, a
    scrubber facility in the Midway-Sunset field was in full
    operation and is burning waste gas rather than purchased gas to
    generate the steam for its thermal recovery project. It is
    anticipated that the scrubber facility will reduce steaming
    costs in the future.* The increase in depletion expense was
    mainly due to higher finding and development costs in the
    Canadian region, coupled with a 10.5 Bcfe downward revision
    of the proved reserve estimate (resulting in an increase to the
    per unit depletion rate) in this region in 2006. Partially
    offsetting these decreases, higher oil and gas prices, as
    discussed above, contributed $46.5 million to earnings.
    Also, the non-recurrence of the 2005
     mark-to-market 
    adjustment discussed under Revenues above, contributed
    $3.3 million to earnings and strong cash flow provided
    higher interest income ($2.6 million). In the second
    quarter of 2006, a $5.1 million benefit to earnings

38

Table of Contents   

was realized for an adjustment to a deferred income tax balance.
    Under GAAP, a company may recognize the benefit of certain
    expected future income tax deductions as a deferred tax asset
    only if it anticipates sufficient future taxable income to
    utilize those deductions. As a result of the rise in commodity
    prices, the Company increased its forecast of future taxable
    income in the Exploration and Production segment s Canadian
    division and, as a result, recorded a deferred tax asset for
    certain drilling costs that it now expects to deduct on future
    income tax returns. In the third quarter of 2006, a
    $6.1 million benefit to earnings related to income taxes
    was recognized. The Company reversed a valuation allowance
    ($2.9 million) associated with the capital loss
    carryforward that resulted from the 2003 sale of certain of
    Seneca s oil properties, and also recognized a tax benefit
    of $3.2 million related to the favorable resolution of
    certain open tax issues.

2005
    Compared with 2004  

The Exploration and Production segment s earnings in 2005
    were $50.7 million, a decrease of $3.6 million when
    compared with earnings of $54.3 million in 2004. Lower oil
    and gas production, as discussed above, decreased earnings by
    $23.9 million. Also, in 2004, the Company recorded an
    adjustment to the sale of its Southeast Saskatchewan properties
    that increased 2004 earnings by $4.6 million. In 2005, the
    Company recorded a
     mark-to-market 
    adjustment, as discussed above under  Revenues , that
    decreased 2005 earnings by $3.3 million. Higher lease
    operating and depletion expenses also decreased 2005 earnings by
    $2.1 million and $0.6 million, respectively. The
    increase in lease operating expenses resulted mainly from
    increased Canadian production and higher steaming costs
    associated with heavy crude oil production in the West Coast
    Region. Depletion expense increased despite a drop in production
    mostly due to an increase in the per unit depletion rate, which
    was largely the result of the higher finding and development
    costs experienced by Seneca in 2005. All of these factors, which
    collectively resulted in a $34.5 million decrease in 2005
    earnings, were partially offset by higher oil and gas prices, as
    discussed above, that contributed $25.9 million to
    earnings. Also, 2005 earnings benefited from higher interest
    income ($1.8 million) and lower interest expense
    ($1.2 million). The fluctuations in interest income and
    interest expense reflect the fact that the Exploration and
    Production segment has been operating solely within its own cash
    flow from operations. Short-term borrowings have been eliminated
    and excess cash has been invested, resulting in higher interest
    income. This excess cash will be used to fund operations and
    future capital expenditures.* Lower general and administrative
    expenses, largely due to lower legal costs, also increased 2005
    earnings by $1.0 million.

ENERGY
    MARKETING  

Revenues  

Energy
    Marketing Operating Revenues  

Energy
    Marketing Volumes  

2006
    Compared with 2005  

Operating revenues for the Energy Marketing segment increased
    $167.4 million in 2006 as compared with 2005. The increase
    primarily reflects higher natural gas commodity prices that were
    recovered through revenues, and, to a lesser extent, an increase
    in throughput. The increase in throughput was due to the

39

Table of Contents   

addition of certain large commercial and industrial customers,
    which more than offset any decrease in throughput due to warmer
    weather and greater conservation by customers due to higher
    natural gas prices.

2005
    Compared with 2004  

Operating revenues for the Energy Marketing segment increased
    $45.4 million in 2005 as compared with 2004. The increase
    primarily reflects an increase in the price of natural gas.
    Volumes were down compared to the prior year due to the loss of
    certain lower margin wholesale customers.

Earnings  

2006
    Compared with 2005  

The Energy Marketing segment s earnings in 2006 were
    $5.8 million, an increase of $0.7 million when
    compared with earnings of $5.1 million in 2005. Despite
    warmer weather and greater conservation by customers, gross
    margin increased due to a number of factors, including higher
    volumes and the marketing flexibility associated with stored
    gas. The Energy Marketing segment s contracts for
    significant storage and transportation volumes provided
    operational flexibility resulting in increased sales throughput
    and earnings. The increase in gross margin more than offset an
    increase in operation expense.

2005
    Compared with 2004  

The Energy Marketing segment s earnings in 2005 were
    $5.1 million, a decrease of $0.4 million when compared
    with earnings of $5.5 million in 2004. The decrease
    primarily reflects lower margins caused by a reduction in the
    benefit of storage gas and, to a lesser extent, lower throughput.

TIMBER  

Revenues  

Timber
    Operating Revenues  

Timber
    Board Feet  

2006
    Compared with 2005  

Operating revenues for the Timber segment increased
    $3.7 million in 2006 as compared with 2005. This increase
    can be chiefly attributed to an increase in kiln dry lumber
    sales of $3.2 million principally due to an increase in
    kiln dry cherry lumber sales volumes of 2.0 million board
    feet. Other kiln dry lumber sales volumes

40

Table of Contents   

decreased by 0.6 million board feet, but there was little
    impact to revenues. The addition of two new kilns in February
    2005 allowed for greater processing capacity in 2006 as compared
    to 2005 since the kilns were in operation for all of 2006.
    Higher log sales revenue of $0.6 million also contributed
    to the increase in revenues. An increase in cherry export log
    sales as a result of greater market demand and an increase in
    saw log sales were the primary factors contributing to the
    increase. Offsetting these increases was a decline in cherry
    veneer log sales due to lower volumes of cherry veneer logs
    harvested because of unfavorable weather conditions.

2005
    Compared with 2004  

Operating revenues for the Timber segment increased
    $5.3 million in 2005 as compared with 2004. This increase
    can be partially attributed to an increase in kiln dry lumber
    sales of $2.2 million largely due to an increase in cherry
    lumber sales volumes of 1.6 million board feet. While there
    was a decline in kiln dry lumber sales volumes from other
    species (1.1 million board feet), the revenue from those
    species is not significant. Cherry kiln dry lumber revenues
    represent over 90% of the Timber segment s total kiln dry
    lumber revenues. The increase in volume is a result of the
    addition of two new kilns as discussed above, allowing for an
    increase in the amount of kiln dry lumber that can be processed.
    In addition, green lumber sales also increased by
    $1.4 million due to increased sales of maple green lumber
    primarily as a result of favorable weather conditions that
    allowed for an increase in harvesting.

Earnings  

2006
    Compared with 2005  

The Timber segment earnings in 2006 were $5.7 million, an
    increase of $0.7 million when compared with earnings of
    $5.0 million in 2005. Higher margins from kiln dry lumber
    sales and cherry export log sales accounted for the earnings
    increase.

2005
    Compared with 2004  

The Timber segment earnings in 2005 were $5.0 million, a
    decrease of $0.6 million when compared with earnings of
    $5.6 million in 2004. Increases in the cost of goods sold
    during 2005 due to a greater amount of timber being harvested on
    purchased stumpage, which has a higher cost basis than other raw
    material sources, is primarily responsible for the earnings
    decline. Also contributing to the decline were overall increases
    in operating expenses due to higher utility costs. Partially
    offsetting these declines in earnings were the increased sales
    of kiln dry lumber and green lumber discussed above, as well as
    the favorable earnings impact associated with the non-recurrence
    of a $0.8 million loss recorded in 2004 related to the
    Company s fiscal 2003 sale of timber properties. In 2004,
    the Company received final timber cruise information of the
    properties it sold in 2003 and, based on that information,
    determined that property records pertaining to $1.3 million
    of timber property were not properly shown as having been
    transferred to the purchaser. As a result, the Company removed
    those assets from its property records and adjusted the
    previously recognized gain downward by recognizing a loss of
    $0.8 million.

ALL OTHER
    AND CORPORATE OPERATIONS  

All Other and Corporate Operations primarily includes the
    operations of Horizon LFG, Horizon Power, former International
    segment activity other than the activity from the Czech Republic
    operations, and corporate operations. Horizon LFG owns and
    operates short-distance landfill gas pipeline companies. Horizon
    Power s activity primarily consists of equity method
    investments in Seneca Energy, Model City and ESNE. Horizon Power
    has a 50% ownership interest in each of these entities. The
    income from these equity method investments is reported as
    Operations of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries on the Consolidated
    Statement of Income. Seneca Energy and Model City generate and
    sell electricity using methane gas obtained from landfills owned
    by outside parties. ESNE generates electricity from an
    80-megawatt, combined cycle, natural gas-fired power plant in
    North East, Pennsylvania. Horizon Power also owns a gas-powered
    turbine and other assets which it had planned to use in the
    development of a co-generation plant. The Company is in the
    process of selling these

41

Table of Contents   

assets. The former International segment activity primarily
    consists of project development activities, the largest being
    projects in Italy and Bulgaria.

Earnings  

2006
    Compared with 2005  

All Other and Corporate operations experienced income of
    $0.2 million in 2006, which was $7.1 million greater
    than a loss of $6.9 million in 2005. The increase is due
    primarily to the non-recurrence of $4.5 million of
    impairment charges recorded in 2005, as discussed below. Also
    contributing to the increase were higher interest income
    ($4.7 million) during 2006, resulting primarily from the
    investment of proceeds from the sale of U.E. in July 2005,
    combined with higher average interest rates in 2006 versus 2005.
    These increases were partially offset by higher operating
    expenses ($1.3 million) and lower margins on landfill gas
    sales ($0.5 million).

2005
    Compared with 2004  

All Other and Corporate operations experienced a loss of
    $6.9 million in 2005, which was $1.2 million greater
    than a loss of $5.7 million in 2004. During 2005, Horizon
    Power recorded a $2.7 million impairment in the value of
    its 50% investment in ESNE. Management determined that there was
    a decline in the fair market value of ESNE that was other than
    temporary in nature given continuing high commodity prices for
    natural gas and the negative impact these prices had on
    operations. ESNE has experienced losses over the last few years.
    It also recorded a $1.8 million impairment of the
    gas-powered turbine mentioned above. This impairment was based
    on a review of current market prices for similar turbines.
    However, these impairments were partially offset by higher
    equity method income from Horizon Power s investments in
    Seneca Energy and Model City ($1.4 million). Horizon
    LFG s earnings decreased by $1.3 million due to lower
    margins on gas sales. The overall decreases experienced by
    Horizon Power and Horizon LFG were partially offset by a
    $1.7 million improvement in the losses experienced by the
    former International segment, largely due to lower project
    development costs, and a $1.2 million improvement in
    earnings of Corporate operations.

INTEREST
    INCOME  

Interest income was $3.8 million higher in 2006 compared to
    2005. As discussed in the earnings discussion by segment above,
    the main reasons for this increase were strong cash flow from
    operations, the investment of proceeds from the sale of U.E. in
    July 2005 and higher average annual interest rates.
    Additionally, interest income on a pension related asset in
    accordance with the New York rate case settlement agreement
    increased by $0.5 million.

Interest income was $4.7 million higher in 2005 compared to
    2004. As discussed in the earnings discussion by segment above,
    the main reason for this increase was the accrual of
    $3.7 million in interest on a pension related asset in
    accordance with the New York rate case settlement agreement that
    was completed in 2005.

OTHER
    INCOME  

Other income was $9.9 million lower in 2006 compared to
    2005. As discussed in the earnings discussion by segment above,
    the main reasons for this decrease included non-recurring gains
    recorded during 2005 in the Pipeline and Storage segment related
    to the sale of base gas ($2.6 million), and the disposition
    of insurance proceeds ($3.9 million) received in prior
    years for which a contingency was resolved.

Other income was $9.8 million higher in 2005 compared to
    2004. As discussed in the earnings discussion by segment above,
    the main reasons for this increase included a $2.6 million
    gain in the Pipeline and Storage segment associated with a FERC
    approved sale of base gas in 2005 and a $3.9 million gain
    in the Pipeline and Storage segment associated with insurance
    proceeds received in prior years for which a contingency was
    resolved during 2005.

42

Table of Contents   

INTEREST
    CHARGES  

Although most of the variances in Interest Charges are discussed
    in the earnings discussion by segment above, following is a
    summary on a consolidated basis:

Interest on long-term debt decreased $0.6 million in 2006
    and $9.7 million in 2005. The decrease in 2005 was
    primarily the result of a lower average amount of long-term debt
    outstanding.

Other interest charges were $3.1 million lower in 2006
    compared to 2005. The decrease resulted primarily from the
    non-recurrence of $2.1 million of interest expense,
    discussed below, recorded by the Utility segment in 2005 and a
    lower average amount of short-term debt outstanding during 2006.

Other interest charges were $2.3 million higher in 2005
    compared to 2004. The increase resulted mainly from
    $2.1 million of interest expense recorded by the Utility
    segment as part of an adjustment to a regulatory liability
    recorded for previous over-collections of New York State gross
    receipts tax.

CAPITAL
    RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY  

The primary sources and uses of cash during the last three years
    are summarized in the following condensed statement of cash
    flows:

Sources
    (Uses) of Cash  

OPERATING
    CASH FLOW  

Internally generated cash from operating activities consists of
    net income available for common stock, adjusted for non-cash
    expenses, non-cash income and changes in operating assets and
    liabilities. Non-cash items include depreciation, depletion and
    amortization, impairment of oil and gas producing properties,
    impairment of investment in partnership, deferred income taxes,
    income or loss from unconsolidated subsidiaries net of cash
    distributions, minority interest in foreign subsidiaries, loss
    on sale of timber properties, gain on sale of oil and gas
    producing properties, and gain on the sale of discontinued
    operations.

Cash provided by operating activities in the Utility and
    Pipeline and Storage segments may vary substantially from year
    to year because of the impact of rate cases. In the Utility
    segment, supplier refunds, over- or under-recovered purchased
    gas costs and weather may also significantly impact cash flow.
    The impact of

43

Table of Contents   

weather on cash flow is tempered in the Utility segment s
    New York rate jurisdiction by its WNC and in the Pipeline and
    Storage segment by Supply Corporation s straight
    fixed-variable rate design.

Cash provided by operating activities in the Exploration and
    Production segment may vary from period to period as a result of
    changes in the commodity prices of natural gas and crude oil.
    The Company uses various derivative financial instruments,
    including price swap agreements, no cost collars, options and
    futures contracts in an attempt to manage this energy commodity
    price risk.

Net cash provided by operating activities totaled
    $471.4 million in 2006, an increase of $154.1 million
    compared with the $317.3 million provided by operating
    activities in 2005. Higher oil and gas revenues in the
    Exploration and Production segment were primarily responsible
    for the increase. A decrease in hedging collateral deposits at
    September 30, 2006 in the Exploration and Production and
    Energy Marketing segments also contributed to the increase.
    Hedging collateral deposits serve as collateral for open
    positions on exchange-traded futures contracts, exchange-traded
    options and
     over-the-counter 
    swaps and collars. The decrease from the prior year is
    reflective of lower natural gas prices and a smaller number of
    derivative financial instruments outstanding at
    September 30, 2006 verses September 30, 2005. These
    increases were partially offset by the loss of positive cash
    flow from the Company s former Czech Republic operations,
    which were sold in July 2005.

INVESTING
    CASH FLOW  

Expenditures
    for Long-Lived Assets  

The Company s expenditures for long-lived assets totaled
    $294.2 million in 2006. The table below presents these
    expenditures:

Utility  

The majority of the Utility capital expenditures were made for
    replacement of mains and main extensions, as well as for the
    replacement of service lines.

Pipeline
    and Storage  

The majority of the Pipeline and Storage segment s capital
    expenditures were made for additions, improvements and
    replacements to this segment s transmission and gas storage
    systems.

Exploration
    and Production  

The Exploration and Production segment s capital
    expenditures were primarily well drilling and completion
    expenditures and included approximately $41.8 million for
    the Canadian region, $103.4 million for the Gulf Coast
    region ($102.8 million for the off-shore program in the
    Gulf of Mexico), $36.1 million for the West Coast region
    and $27.0 million for the Appalachian region. The
    significant amount spent in the Gulf Coast region is related to
    high commodity prices, which has improved the economics of
    investment in the area, plus

44

Table of Contents   

projected royalty relief. These amounts included approximately
    $55.6 million spent to develop proved undeveloped reserves.

Timber  

The majority of the Timber segment capital expenditures were
    made for purchases of equipment for Highland s sawmill and
    kiln operations.

Estimated
    Capital Expenditures  

The Company s estimated capital expenditures for the next
    three years are:*

Estimated capital expenditures for the Utility segment in 2007
    will be concentrated in the areas of main and service line
    improvements and replacements and, to a lesser extent, the
    purchase of new equipment.*

Estimated capital expenditures for the Pipeline and Storage
    segment in 2007 will be concentrated in the replacement of
    transmission and storage lines, reconditioning of storage wells
    and improvements of compressor stations.* The estimated capital
    expenditures for 2007 also includes $39.0 million for the
    Empire Connector project as discussed below.

The Company continues to explore various opportunities to expand
    its capabilities to transport gas to the East Coast, either
    through the Supply Corporation or Empire systems or in
    partnership with others. In October 2005, Empire filed an
    application with the FERC for the authority to build and operate
    the Empire Connector project to expand its natural gas pipeline
    operations to serve new markets in New York and elsewhere in the
    Northeast by extending the Empire Pipeline. The application also
    asks that Empire s existing business and facilities be
    brought under FERC jurisdiction, and that FERC approve rates for
    Empire s existing and proposed services. Assuming the
    proposed Millennium Pipeline is constructed, the Empire
    Connector will provide an upstream supply link for the
    Millennium Pipeline and will transport Canadian and other
    natural gas supplies to downstream customers, including KeySpan
    Gas East Corporation, which has entered into precedent
    agreements to subscribe for at least 150 MDth per day of natural
    gas transportation service through the Empire State Pipeline and
    the Millennium Pipeline systems.* The Empire Connector will be
    designed to move up to approximately 250 MDth of natural gas per
    day.* In July 2006, Empire revised the planned in-service date
    for the Empire Connector to extend beyond its original November
    2007 target. The new targeted in-service date is November 2008,
    or sooner if feasible.* FERC issued on July 20, 2006 a
    preliminary determination regarding non-environmental aspects of
    the application, in response to which Empire made a request for
    rehearing on August 21, 2006. Empire anticipates that FERC
    will issue a final certificate authorizing construction and
    operation of the project on or about December 2006, after which
    Empire will have to decide whether it will accept the final
    approval on the terms contained therein.* Refer to the Rate and
    Regulatory Matters section that follows for further discussion
    of this matter. The forecasted expenditures for this project
    over the next three years are as follows: $39.0 million in
    2007, $85.0 million in 2008, and $22.0 million in
    2009.* These expenditures are included as Pipeline and Storage
    estimated capital expenditures in the table above. The Company
    anticipates financing this project with cash on hand
     and/or 
    through the use of the Company s bi-lateral lines of
    credit.* As of September 30, 2006, the Company had incurred
    approximately $6.0 million in

45

Table of Contents   

costs (all of which have been reserved) related to this project.
    Of this amount, $2.0 million, $3.4 million and
    $0.6 million were incurred during the years ended
    September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The Company also has plans to expand Supply Corporation s
    existing interconnect with Empire at Pendleton, New York.
    Compression will be added to allow Supply Corporation
    transportation and storage volumes to be delivered to Empire,
    which is operated at higher pressures than Supply
    Corporation s system.* The Pendleton Compression project
    will be a key strategic expansion for Supply Corporation,
    allowing access to both Empire and Millennium markets to the
    east, as well as for Empire, providing its shippers with access
    to storage services and Supply Corporation s array of
    interconnects. Supply Corporation is in the process of
    negotiating customer agreement(s), and expects to complete
    design and launch the regulatory approval process in late 2006.*
    There have been no costs incurred by the Company related to this
    project as of September 30, 2006, and the forecasted
    expenditures for this project over the next three years are as
    follows: $0 in 2007, $3.0 million in 2008, and
    $1.0 million in 2009.* These expenditures are included as
    Pipeline and Storage estimated capital expenditures in the table
    above. The target in-service date for the Pendleton Compression
    project is contingent upon the Millennium/Empire Connector
    timeline.* Accordingly, Supply Corporation anticipates that most
    of the capital spending associated with this expansion will
    occur in fiscal 2008.*

Supply Corporation continues to view the Tuscarora Extension
    project as an important link to Millennium and potential storage
    development in the Corning, New York area.* The new pipeline,
    which would expand the Supply Corporation system from its
    Tuscarora storage field to the intersection of the proposed
    Millennium and Empire Connector pipelines, will be designed
    initially to transport up to approximately 130 MDth of natural
    gas per day. It may also provide Supply Corporation with the
    opportunity to increase the deliverability of the existing
    Tuscarora storage field.* The project timeline relies on market
    development, and should the market mature, the Company
    anticipates financing the Tuscarora Extension with cash on hand
     and/or 
    through the use of the Company s bi-lateral lines of
    credit.* There have been no costs incurred by the Company
    related to this project as of September 30, 2006, and the
    forecasted expenditures for this project over the next three
    years are as follows: $0 in 2007 and 2008, and
    $39.0 million in 2009.* These expenditures are included as
    Pipeline and Storage estimated capital expenditures in the table
    above. The Company has not yet filed an application with the
    FERC for the authority to build and operate the Tuscarora
    Extension.

Estimated capital expenditures in 2007 for the Exploration and
    Production segment include approximately $34.0 million for
    Canada, $100.0 million for the Gulf Coast region
    ($98.0 million on the off-shore program in the Gulf of
    Mexico), $43.0 million for the West Coast region and
    $35.0 million for the Appalachian region.*

Estimated capital expenditures in 2007 in the Timber segment
    will be concentrated on the purchase of new equipment and
    improvements to facilities for this segment s lumber yard,
    sawmill and kiln operations.*

The Company continuously evaluates capital expenditures and
    investments in corporations, partnerships and other business
    entities. The amounts are subject to modification for
    opportunities such as the acquisition of attractive oil and gas
    properties, timber or natural gas storage facilities and the
    expansion of natural gas transmission line capacities. While the
    majority of capital expenditures in the Utility segment are
    necessitated by the continued need for replacement and upgrading
    of mains and service lines, the magnitude of future capital
    expenditures or other investments in the Company s other
    business segments depends, to a large degree, upon market
    conditions.*

FINANCING
    CASH FLOW  

The Company did not have any outstanding short-term notes
    payable to banks or commercial paper at September 30, 2006.
    However, the Company continues to consider short-term debt
    (consisting of short-term notes payable to banks and commercial
    paper) an important source of cash for temporarily financing
    capital expenditures and investments in corporations
     and/or 
    partnerships,
     gas-in-storage 
    inventory, unrecovered purchased gas costs, margin calls on
    derivative financial instruments, exploration and development
    expenditures and other working capital needs. Fluctuations in
    these items can have a significant impact on the amount and
    timing of short-term debt. As for bank loans, the Company
    maintains a number of individual (bi-lateral) uncommitted or
    discretionary lines of credit with certain financial
    institutions for general corporate purposes. Borrowings under
    these lines of credit are made at competitive market rates.
    These credit lines, which aggregate

46

Table of Contents   

to $445.0 million, are revocable at the option of the
    financial institutions and are reviewed on an annual basis. The
    Company anticipates that these lines of credit will continue to
    be renewed, or replaced by similar lines.* The total amount
    available to be issued under the Company s commercial paper
    program is $300.0 million. The commercial paper program is
    backed by a syndicated committed credit facility totaling
    $300.0 million that extends through September 30, 2010.

Under the Company s committed credit facility, the Company
    has agreed that its debt to capitalization ratio will not exceed
    .65 at the last day of any fiscal quarter from
    September 30, 2005 through September 30, 2010. At
    September 30, 2006, the Company s debt to
    capitalization ratio (as calculated under the facility) was .44.
    The constraints specified in the committed credit facility would
    permit an additional $1.56 billion in short-term
     and/or 
    long-term debt to be outstanding (further limited by the
    indenture covenants discussed below) before the Company s
    debt to capitalization ratio would exceed .65. If a downgrade in
    any of the Company s credit ratings were to occur, access
    to the commercial paper markets might not be possible.* However,
    the Company expects that it could borrow under its uncommitted
    bank lines of credit or rely upon other liquidity sources,
    including cash provided by operations.*

Under the Company s existing indenture covenants, at
    September 30, 2006, the Company would have been permitted
    to issue up to a maximum of $1.03 billion in additional
    long-term unsecured indebtedness at then current market interest
    rates in addition to being able to issue new indebtedness to
    replace maturing debt. The Company s present liquidity
    position is believed to be adequate to satisfy known demands.*

The Company s 1974 indenture, pursuant to which
    $399.0 million (or 36%) of the Company s long-term
    debt (as of September 30, 2006) was issued, contains a
    cross-default provision whereby the failure by the Company to
    perform certain obligations under other borrowing arrangements
    could trigger an obligation to repay the debt outstanding under
    the indenture. In particular, a repayment obligation could be
    triggered if the Company fails (i) to pay any scheduled
    principal or interest on any debt under any other indenture or
    agreement or (ii) to perform any other term in any other
    such indenture or agreement, and the effect of the failure
    causes, or would permit the holders of the debt to cause, the
    debt under such indenture or agreement to become due prior to
    its stated maturity, unless cured or waived.

The Company s $300.0 million committed credit facility
    also contains a cross-default provision whereby the failure by
    the Company or its significant subsidiaries to make payments
    under other borrowing arrangements, or the occurrence of certain
    events affecting those other borrowing arrangements, could
    trigger an obligation to repay any amounts outstanding under the
    committed credit facility. In particular, a repayment obligation
    could be triggered if (i) the Company or its significant
    subsidiaries fail to make a payment when due of any principal or
    interest on any other indebtedness aggregating
    $20.0 million or more or (ii) an event occurs that
    causes, or would permit the holders of any other indebtedness
    aggregating $20.0 million or more to cause, such
    indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity. As of
    September 30, 2006, the Company had no debt outstanding
    under the committed credit facility.

The Company s embedded cost of long-term debt was 6.4% at
    both September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005. Refer
    to  Interest Rate Risk  in this Item for a more
    detailed breakdown of the Company s embedded cost of
    long-term debt.

The Company has an effective registration statement on file with
    the SEC under which it has available capacity to issue an
    additional $550.0 million of debt and equity securities
    under the Securities Act of 1933. The Company may sell all or a
    portion of the remaining registered securities if warranted by
    market conditions and the Company s capital requirements.
    Any offer and sale of the above mentioned $550.0 million of
    debt and equity securities will be made only by means of a
    prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act of
    1933 and the rules and regulations thereunder.

The amounts and timing of the issuance and sale of debt or
    equity securities will depend on market conditions, indenture
    requirements, regulatory authorizations and the capital
    requirements of the Company.

On December 8, 2005, the Company s Board of Directors
    authorized the Company to implement a share repurchase program,
    whereby the Company may repurchase outstanding shares of common
    stock, up to an aggregate amount of 8 million shares in the
    open market or through privately negotiated transactions. As of

47

Table of Contents   

September 30, 2006, the Company has repurchased
    2,526,550 shares under this program, funded with cash
    provided by operating activities. In the future, it is expected
    that this share repurchase program will continue to be funded
    with cash provided by operating activities
     and/or 
    through the use of the Company s bi-lateral lines of
    credit.* It is expected that open market repurchases will
    continue from time to time depending on market conditions.*

OFF-BALANCE
    SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  

The Company has entered into certain off-balance sheet financing
    arrangements. These financing arrangements are primarily
    operating and capital leases. The Company s consolidated
    subsidiaries have operating leases, the majority of which are
    with the Utility and the Pipeline and Storage segments, having a
    remaining lease commitment of approximately $44.0 million.
    These leases have been entered into for the use of buildings,
    vehicles, construction tools, meters, computer equipment and
    other items and are accounted for as operating leases. The
    Company s unconsolidated subsidiaries, which are accounted
    for under the equity method, have capital leases of electric
    generating equipment having a remaining lease commitment of
    approximately $7.1 million. The Company has guaranteed 50%,
    or $3.5 million, of these capital lease commitments.

CONTRACTUAL
    OBLIGATIONS  

The following table summarizes the Company s expected
    future contractual cash obligations as of September 30,
    2006, and the twelve-month periods over which they occur:

(1)  

Refer to Note E   Capitalization and Short-Term
    Borrowings, as well as the table under Interest Rate Risk in the
    Market Risk Sensitive Instruments section below, for the amounts
    excluding interest expense. 

(2)  

Gas prices are variable based on the NYMEX prices adjusted for
    basis. 

The Company has made certain other guarantees on behalf of its
    subsidiaries. The guarantees relate primarily to:
    (i) obligations under derivative financial instruments,
    which are included on the consolidated balance sheet in
    accordance with the SFAS 133 (see Item 7, MD&A
    under the heading  Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Accounting for Derivative Financial
    Instruments  (ii) NFR obligations to purchase gas or
    to purchase gas transportation/storage services where the
    amounts due on those obligations each month are included on the
    consolidated balance sheet as a current liability; and
    (iii) other obligations which are reflected on the
    consolidated balance sheet. The Company believes that the
    likelihood it would be required to make payments under the
    guarantees is remote, and therefore has not included them in the
    table above.*

OTHER
    MATTERS  

In addition to the legal proceedings disclosed in Item 3 of
    this report, the Company is involved in other litigation and
    regulatory matters arising in the normal course of business.
    These other matters may include, for example, negligence claims
    and tax, regulatory or other governmental audits, inspections,
    investigations or other proceedings. These matters may involve
    state and federal taxes, safety, compliance with regulations,
    rate base, cost of service and purchased gas cost issues, among
    other things. While these normal-course matters

48

Table of Contents   

could have a material effect on earnings and cash flows in the
    period in which they are resolved, they are not expected to
    change materially the Company s present liquidity position,
    nor to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition
    of the Company.*

The Company has a tax-qualified, noncontributory defined-benefit
    retirement plan (Retirement Plan) that covers approximately 77%
    of the Company s domestic employees. The Company has been
    making contributions to the Retirement Plan over the last
    several years and anticipates that it will continue making
    contributions to the Retirement Plan.* During 2006, the Company
    contributed $20.9 million to the Retirement Plan. The
    Company anticipates that the annual contribution to the
    Retirement Plan in 2007 will be in the range of
    $15.0 million to $20.0 million.* The Company expects
    that all subsidiaries having domestic employees covered by the
    Retirement Plan will make contributions to the Retirement Plan.*
    The funding of such contributions will come from amounts
    collected in rates in the Utility and Pipeline and Storage
    segments or through short-term borrowings or through cash from
    operations.*

The Company provides health care and life insurance benefits for
    substantially all domestic retired employees under a
    post-retirement benefit plan (Post-Retirement Plan). The Company
    has been making contributions to the Post-Retirement Plan over
    the last several years and anticipates that it will continue
    making contributions to the Post-Retirement Plan.* During 2006,
    the Company contributed $39.3 million to the
    Post-Retirement Plan. The Company anticipates that the annual
    contribution to the Post-Retirement Plan in 2007 will be in the
    range of $35.0 million to $45.0 million.* The funding
    of such contributions will come from amounts collected in rates
    in the Utility and Pipeline and Storage segments.*

A capital loss carryover of $25.1 million exists at
    September 30, 2006, which expires if not utilized by
    September 30, 2008. Although realization is not assured,
    management determined that it is more likely than not that the
    entire deferred tax asset associated with this carryover will be
    realized during the carryover period. As such, the valuation
    allowance of $2.9 million was reversed during 2006 as
    discussed under  Exploration and Production  in the
    Results of Operations section above.

A deferred tax asset of $9.0 million relating to Canadian
    operations exists at September 30, 2006. Although
    realization is not assured, management determined that it is
    more likely than not that future taxable income will be
    generated in Canada to fully utilize this asset, and as such, no
    valuation allowance was provided.

MARKET
    RISK SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTS  

Energy
    Commodity Price Risk  

The Company, in its Exploration and Production segment, Energy
    Marketing segment, Pipeline and Storage segment, and All Other
    category, uses various derivative financial instruments
    (derivatives), including price swap agreements, no cost collars,
    options and futures contracts, as part of the Company s
    overall energy commodity price risk management strategy. Under
    this strategy, the Company manages a portion of the market risk
    associated with fluctuations in the price of natural gas and
    crude oil, thereby attempting to provide more stability to
    operating results. The Company has operating procedures in place
    that are administered by experienced management to monitor
    compliance with the Company s risk management policies. The
    derivatives are not held for trading purposes. The fair value of
    these derivatives, as shown below, represents the amount that
    the Company would receive from or pay to the respective
    counterparties at September 30, 2006 to terminate the
    derivatives. However, the tables below and the fair value that
    is disclosed do not consider the physical side of the natural
    gas and crude oil transactions that are related to the financial
    instruments.

The following tables disclose natural gas and crude oil price
    swap information by expected maturity dates for agreements in
    which the Company receives a fixed price in exchange for paying
    a variable price as quoted in  Inside FERC  or on the
    NYMEX. Notional amounts (quantities) are used to calculate the
    contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. The
    weighted average variable prices represent the weighted average

49

Table of Contents   

settlement prices by expected maturity date as of
    September 30, 2006. At September 30, 2006, the Company
    had not entered into any natural gas or crude oil price swap
    agreements extending beyond 2009.

Natural
    Gas Price Swap Agreements    

Crude
    Oil Price Swap Agreements    

At September 30, 2006, the Company would have had to pay
    its respective counterparties an aggregate of approximately
    $7.4 million to terminate the natural gas price swap
    agreements outstanding at that date. The Company would have had
    to pay an aggregate of approximately $27.6 million to its
    counterparties to terminate the crude oil price swap agreements
    outstanding at September 30, 2006.

At September 30, 2005, the Company had natural gas price
    swap agreements covering 18.8 Bcf at a weighted average
    fixed rate of $5.73 per Mcf. The Company also had crude oil
    price swap agreements covering 2,835,000 bbls at a weighted
    average fixed rate of $35.09 per bbl. The decrease in
    natural gas price swap agreements from September 2005 to
    September 2006 is largely attributable to management s
    decision to utilize more no cost collars as a means of hedging
    natural gas production in the Exploration and Production
    segment. The decrease in crude oil price swap agreements is
    primarily due to the fact that the Company has not been entering
    into new swap agreements for its West Coast crude oil
    production. This decision is related to the price, or
     basis,  differential that exists between the
    Company s West Coast heavy sour crude oil and the West
    Texas Intermediate light sweet crude oil that is quoted on the
    NYMEX. The Company has been unable to hedge against changes in
    the basis differential.

The following table discloses the notional quantities, the
    weighted average ceiling price and the weighted average floor
    price for the no cost collars used by the Company to manage
    natural gas price risk. The no cost collars provide for the
    Company to receive monthly payments from (or make payments to)
    other parties when a variable price falls below an established
    floor price (the Company receives payment from the counterparty)
    or exceeds an established ceiling price (the Company pays the
    counterparty). At September 30, 2006, the Company had not
    entered into any natural gas or crude oil no cost collars
    extending beyond 2008.

No
    Cost Collars    

50

Table of Contents   

At September 30, 2006, the Company would have received an
    aggregate of approximately $10.4 million to terminate the
    natural gas no cost collars outstanding at that date. The
    Company would have received $0.9 million to terminate the
    crude oil no cost collars at September 30, 2006.

At September 30, 2005, the Company had natural gas no cost
    collars covering 8.5 Bcf at a weighted average floor price
    of $7.54 per Mcf and a weighted average ceiling price of
    $15.62 per Mcf. The Company did not have any outstanding
    crude oil no cost collars at September 30, 2005. The
    decrease in natural gas collars from September 2005 to September
    2006 is due to management s decision to curtail hedging
    activity in the fourth quarter of 2006 due to the forecast of a
    more active hurricane season in 2006. In 2005, the Company
    recognized a $5.1 million
     mark-to-market 
    adjustment related to derivative financial instruments that no
    longer qualified as effective hedges due to production delays
    caused by Hurricane Rita, and management wanted to prevent this
    from recurring in 2006. When the hurricane season did not turn
    out to be as active as everyone had forecasted, the pricing
    strip at that time was so low that management elected to hold
    off on some of the hedging. Management is reviewing that policy
    and is in the process of looking at layering in more hedges in
    the future.*

The following table discloses the net contract volumes purchased
    (sold), weighted average contract prices and weighted average
    settlement prices by expected maturity date for futures
    contracts used to manage natural gas price risk. At
    September 30, 2006, the Company held no futures contracts
    with maturity dates extending beyond 2012.

Futures
    Contracts    

At September 30, 2006, the Company would have had to pay
    $4.9 million to terminate these futures contracts.

At September 30, 2005, the Company had futures contracts
    covering 2.2 Bcf (net short position) at a weighted average
    contract price of $8.63 per Mcf.

The increase in net long positions in 2006 was due to the
    decrease in natural gas prices in the summer months which led to
    an increase in fixed price sales commitments. These commitments
    were hedged with long positions in the futures market.

The Company may be exposed to credit risk on some of the
    derivatives disclosed above. Credit risk relates to the risk of
    loss that the Company would incur as a result of nonperformance
    by counterparties pursuant to the terms of their contractual
    obligations. To mitigate such credit risk, management performs a
    credit check and then, on an ongoing basis, monitors
    counterparty credit exposure. Management has obtained guarantees
    from the parent companies of the respective counterparties to
    its derivatives. At September 30, 2006, the Company used
    six counterparties for its over the counter derivatives. At
    September 30, 2006, no individual counterparty represented
    greater than 39% of total credit risk (measured as volumes
    hedged by an individual counterparty as

51

Table of Contents   

a percentage of the Company s total volumes hedged). All of
    the counterparties (or the parent of the counterparty) were
    rated as investment grade entities at September 30, 2006.

Exchange
    Rate Risk  

The Exploration and Production segment s investment in
    Canada is valued in Canadian dollars, and, as such, this
    investment is subject to currency exchange risk when the
    Canadian dollars are translated into U.S. dollars. This
    exchange rate risk to the Company s investment in Canada
    results in increases or decreases to the CTA, a component of
    Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/Loss on the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets. When the foreign currency increases in value in
    relation to the U.S. dollar, there is a positive adjustment
    to CTA. When the foreign currency decreases in value in relation
    to the U.S. dollar, there is a negative adjustment to CTA.

Interest
    Rate Risk  

The Company s exposure to interest rate risk arises
    primarily from the $22.8 million of variable rate debt
    included in Other Notes in the table below. To mitigate this
    risk, the Company uses an interest rate collar to limit interest
    rate fluctuations. Under the interest rate collar the Company
    makes quarterly payments to (or receives payments from) another
    party when a variable rate falls below an established floor rate
    (the Company pays the counterparty) or exceeds an established
    ceiling rate (the Company receives payment from the
    counterparty). Under the terms of the collar, which extends
    until 2009, the variable rate is based on LIBOR. The floor rate
    of the collar is 5.15% and the ceiling rate is 9.375%. The
    Company would have had to pay $0.1 million to terminate the
    interest rate collar at September 30, 2006.

The following table presents the principal cash repayments and
    related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity
    date for the Company s long-term fixed rate debt as well as
    the other long-term debt of certain of the Company s
    subsidiaries. The interest rates for the variable rate debt are
    based on those in effect at September 30, 2006:

(1)  

$22.8 million is variable rate debt. It is the
    Company s intention to pay off these notes within one year.
    As such, the notes have been classified as current. 

(2)  

Weighted average interest rate excludes the impact of an
    interest rate collar on $22.8 million of variable rate debt. 

RATE AND
    REGULATORY MATTERS  

Energy
    Policy Act  

On August 8, 2005, President Bush signed into law the
    Energy Policy Act, which, among other things, included PUHCA
    2005. PUHCA 2005 repealed PUHCA 1935 effective February 8,
    2006. Since that date, the Company has been free from PUHCA
    1935 s broad regulatory provisions, including provisions
    relating to the

52

Table of Contents   

issuance of securities, sales and acquisitions of securities and
    utility assets, intra-company transactions and limitations on
    diversification. PUHCA 2005, among other things, grants the FERC
    and state public utility regulatory commissions access to
    certain books and records of companies in holding company
    systems. On December 8, 2005, the FERC issued Order 667 to
    implement PUHCA 2005. The FERC clarified certain aspects of
    Order 667 in Order
     667-A, 
    issued on April 24, 2006. On June 15, 2006, pursuant
    to the FERC s regulations, the Company filed a
     notification of holding company status  with the
    FERC. Also on that date, the Company filed an  exemption
    request  with the FERC, requesting exemption of the Company
    and its subsidiaries from the FERC s regulations under
    PUHCA 2005. The exemption request has been granted by operation
    of law pursuant to the FERC s regulations.

Utility
    Operation  

Base rate adjustments in both the New York and Pennsylvania
    jurisdictions do not reflect the recovery of purchased gas
    costs. Such costs are recovered through operation of the
    purchased gas adjustment clauses of the appropriate regulatory
    authorities.

New York
    Jurisdiction  

On August 27, 2004, Distribution Corporation commenced a
    rate case by filing proposed tariff amendments and supporting
    testimony requesting approval to increase its annual revenues
    beginning October 1, 2004. Various parties opposed the
    filing. On April 15, 2005, Distribution Corporation, the
    parties and others executed an agreement settling all
    outstanding issues. In an order issued July 22, 2005, the
    NYPSC approved the April 15, 2005 settlement agreement,
    substantially as filed, for an effective date of August 1,
    2005. The settlement agreement provides for a rate increase of
    $21 million by means of the elimination of bill credits
    ($5.8 million) and an increase in base rates
    ($15.2 million). For the two-year term of the agreement and
    thereafter, the return on equity level above which earnings must
    be shared with rate payers is 11.5%.

Pennsylvania
    Jurisdiction  

On June 1, 2006, Distribution Corporation filed proposed
    tariff amendments with PaPUC to increase annual revenues by
    $25.9 million to cover increases in the cost of service to
    be effective July 30, 2006. The rate request was filed to
    address increased costs associated with Distribution
    Corporation s ongoing construction program as well as
    increases in operating costs, particularly uncollectible
    accounts. Following standard regulatory procedure, the PaPUC
    issued an order on July 20, 2006 instituting a rate
    proceeding and suspending the proposed tariff amendments until
    March 2, 2007.* On October 2, 2006, the parties,
    including Distribution Corporation, Staff of the PaPUC and
    intervenors, executed an agreement (Settlement) proposing to
    settle all issues in the rate proceeding. The Settlement
    includes an increase in revenues of $14.3 million to
    non-gas revenues, an agreement not to file a rate case until
    January 28, 2008 at the earliest and an early
    implementation date. The Settlement was approved by the PaPUC at
    its meeting on November 30, 2006, and new rates will become
    effective January 1, 2007.

On June 8, 2006, the NTSB issued safety recommendations to
    Distribution Corporation as a result of an investigation of a
    natural gas explosion that occurred on Distribution
    Corporation s system in Dubois, Pennsylvania in August
    2004. The explosion destroyed a residence, resulting in the
    death of two people who lived there, and damaged a number of
    other houses in the immediate vicinity.

The NTSB and Distribution Corporation differ in their assessment
    of the probable cause of the explosion. The NTSB determined that
    the probable cause was the fracture of a defective
     butt-fusion joint  which had joined two sections of
    plastic pipe, and the failure of Distribution Corporation to
    have an adequate program to inspect butt-fusion joints and
    replace those joints not meeting its inspection criteria.
    Distribution Corporation had submitted to the NTSB a proposed
    determination of probable cause that was substantially
    different, namely, that the probable cause was the improper
    excavation and backfill operations of a third party working in
    the vicinity of Distribution Corporation s pipeline.
    Distribution Corporation also had raised issues concerning the
    testing standards employed in the NTSB investigation.
    Distribution Corporation is presently reviewing alternatives by
    which to seek review of the NTSB s findings and conclusions
    to ensure that the NTSB considered all

53

Table of Contents   

relevant evidence, including the report of Distribution
    Corporation s third-party plastic pipe expert and other
    relevant evidence, in reaching its determination of probable
    cause.

The NTSB s safety recommendations to Distribution
    Corporation involved revisions to its butt-fusion procedures for
    joining plastic pipe, and revisions to its procedures for
    qualifying personnel who perform plastic fusions. Although not
    required by law to do so, Distribution Corporation is presently
    implementing those recommendations.

The NTSB also issued safety recommendations to the PaPUC and
    certain other parties. The recommendation to the PaPUC was to
    require an analysis of the integrity of butt-fusion joints in
    Distribution Corporation s system and replacement of those
    joints that are determined to have unacceptable characteristics.
    Distribution Corporation is working cooperatively with the Staff
    of the PaPUC to permit the PaPUC to undertake the analysis
    recommended by the NTSB. Specifically, Distribution has done the
    following, in agreement with the PaPUC Staff:

(i)  

Distribution Corporation uncovered a limited number of
    butt-fusions at two locations designated by the PaPUC Staff; 

(ii)  

Commencing July 6, 2006, Distribution Corporation has
    uncovered additional butt-fusions throughout its Pennsylvania
    service area as it has uncovered facilities for other purposes;
    when a butt-fusion has been uncovered, Distribution Corporation
    has notified the designated PaPUC Staff representative to permit
    inspection of the quality of the fusion. Distribution
    Corporation has removed a number of fusions for further
    evaluation. 

Distribution Corporation met with the PaPUC Staff in August 2006
    to review findings to date and to discuss further procedures to
    facilitate the analysis. Distribution Corporation and the PaPUC
    Staff agreed to submit several of the butt-fusion specimens
    removed during the inspection process to an independent testing
    laboratory to assess the integrity of the fusions (and to
    provide an evaluation of the sampling procedure employed).
    Distribution Corporation and the PaPUC Staff have agreed upon
    procedures to test the butt-fusion specimens. Distribution
    Corporation anticipates that it will continue to meet with the
    PaPUC Staff to review findings pertaining to this matter and
    address any integrity concerns that may be identified.* At this
    time, Distribution Corporation is unable to predict the outcome
    of the analysis or of any negotiations or proceedings that may
    result from it. Distribution Corporation s response to the
    actions of the PaPUC will depend on its assessment of the
    validity of the PaPUC s analysis and conclusions.

Without admitting liability, Distribution Corporation has
    settled all significant third-party claims against it related to
    the explosion, for amounts that are immaterial in the aggregate
    to the Company. Distribution Corporation has been committed to
    providing safe and reliable service throughout its service
    territory and firmly believes, based on information presently
    known, that its system continues to be safe and reliable.
    According to the Plastics Pipe Institute, plastic pipe today
    accounts for over 90% of the pipe installed for the natural gas
    distribution industry in the United States and Canada.
    Distribution Corporation, along with many other natural gas
    utilities operating in the United States, has relied extensively
    upon the use of plastic pipe in its natural gas distribution
    system since the 1970s.

Pipeline
    and Storage  

On April 7, 2006, the NYPSC, PaPUC and Pennsylvania Office
    of Consumer Advocate filed a complaint and a motion for summary
    disposition against Supply Corporation with the FERC under
    Sections 5(a) and 13 of the Natural Gas Act (NGA). The
    complainants alleged that Supply Corporation s rates were
    unjust and unreasonable, and that Supply Corporation was
    permitted to retain more gas from shippers than is necessary for
    fuel and loss. As a result, the complainants alleged, Supply
    Corporation has excess annual earnings of approximately
    $30 million to $35 million.

In their complaint, the complainants asked FERC (i) to find
    that Supply Corporation s rates are unjust and
    unreasonable, and (ii) to institute proceedings to
    determine the just and reasonable rates Supply Corporation will
    be authorized to charge prospectively. The complainants also
    asked FERC in their complaint (i) to determine whether
    Supply Corporation has the authority to make sales of gas
    retained from shippers, and (ii) if FERC concludes that
    Supply Corporation does not have such authority, to direct
    Supply Corporation to show

54

Table of Contents   

cause why it should not be required to disgorge profits
    associated with such sales. In their motion for summary
    disposition, the complainants asked FERC (i) to find
    summarily that the rate at which Supply Corporation is permitted
    to retain gas from shippers for fuel and loss is unjust and
    unreasonable, (ii) to require Supply Corporation to make a
    compliance filing providing detailed information regarding its
    fuel and loss retention and use, and (iii) to establish
    just and reasonable fuel and loss percentages for Supply
    Corporation.

On June 23, 2006, FERC denied the complainants  motion
    for summary disposition, set the matter for hearing and referred
    the complaint to a settlement Administrative Law Judge. On
    August 8, 2006, a presiding Administrative Law Judge was
    appointed and discovery activity began. On August 22, 2006,
    the presiding Administrative Law Judge established a procedural
    schedule under which he would issue an initial recommended
    decision by August 8, 2007. Discovery and settlement
    activity continued. On September 26, 2006, the presiding
    Administrative Law Judge granted Supply Corporation s
    unopposed motion to suspend the procedural schedule because the
    active parties had reached a settlement in principle.

On November 17, 2006, Supply Corporation filed a motion
    asking FERC to approve an uncontested settlement of the
    proceeding. The proposed settlement would be implemented when
    and if FERC approves the settlement, but if approved would be
    effective as of December 1, 2006. The principal elements of
    the settlement are as follows:

(i)  

All participants have reached a negotiated resolution of all the
    issues raised or which could have been raised in the proceeding,
    including the claim that Supply Corporation should disgorge all
    previous efficiency gas sales profits. 

(ii)  

Supply Corporation s gas retention allowances on
    transportation services will decrease from 2% to 1.4%, which
    will reduce Supply Corporation s future revenue from sales
    of excess  efficiency gas.  For example, if
    pre-settlement Supply Corporation received 100 Dth of gas for
    transportation under its firm transportation rate schedule,
    Supply Corporation would retain 2 Dth for fuel, loss and company
    use. Post-settlement, Supply Corporation would retain a total of
    1.4 Dth for the combination of fuel, company use and  lost
    and unaccounted for  (LAUF). Supply Corporation may
    continue to sell the excess retained gas, if any, that is not
    consumed or lost in operations (the  efficiency gas )
    and keep the proceeds. However, any profit from the purchase and
    sale of gas to cash out shipper imbalances will continue to be
    accounted for separately and refunded to customers. Supply
    Corporation will publicly file at FERC a semi-annual report
    disclosing, among other things, the quantity, price and
    accounting treatment of all sales of efficiency gas. The amount
    of net revenue from Supply Corporation s future sales of
    efficiency gas will depend upon the quantity of efficiency gas
    that becomes available for sale and the prices which Supply
    Corporation receives from selling that gas.* 

(iii)  

Supply Corporation s annual depreciation rate for
    transmission plant will decrease to 2.9%, and its annual
    depreciation rate for storage plant will decrease to 2.23%. This
    will result in a decrease to Supply Corporation s
    depreciation expense by $5.623 million per year from the
    pre-settlement level of annual depreciation expense.* 

(iv)  

The settlement does not change Supply Corporation s rates
    other than its gas retention allowances. No general rate cases
    or NGA Section 5 complaint may be filed by the settling
    parties to be effective before December 1, 2011. However,
    Supply Corporation may file limited NGA Section 4 rate
    cases as permitted by FERC for matters of general applicability
    to all pipelines (such as passing through some possible future
    greenhouse gas tax), and may propose seasonal rates. 

(v)  

Supply Corporation s Other Post-Retirement Benefits Rate
    Allowance (the amount deemed to be recovered each year in rates
    to fund the Post-Retirement Plan benefits described in
    Note G   Retirement Plan and Other
    Post-Retirement Benefits) will increase from about
    $4.736 million to $11.0 million per year. Supply
    Corporation will contribute its entire Other Post-Retirement
    Benefits Rate Allowance to the VEBA trusts and 401(h) account
    described in that Note G. About $2.5 million per year
    of the Other Post-Retirement Benefits Rate Allowance will be
    applied to fully amortize over the next five years Supply
    Corporation s entire other post-retirement benefits
    regulatory asset balance at December 1, 2006, which had
    been deferred for recovery under a 1995 rate case settlement. To
    the extent the remainder of the Other Post- 

55

Table of Contents   

Retirement Benefits Rate Allowance differs from the
    SFAS 106 expense that Supply Corporation actually accrues
    for the Post-Retirement Plan, that difference will be deferred
    for future recovery or refund as a regulatory asset or
    liability. See Note G   Retirement Plan and Other
    Post-Retirement Benefits for extensive disclosure on the
    Post-Retirement Plan. 

(vi)  

Supply Corporation s tariff provisions on discounting gas
    retention allowances will be amended so as to be consistent with
    FERC s current policy limiting  fuel discounts. 
    Certain pre-settlement discounts in gas retention allowances
    will also be incorporated into the tariff. The discounting
    changes described in this subparagraph (vi) are not
    expected to change Supply Corporation s earnings as
    compared to pre-settlement discounting practices.* 

This matter will be resolved at FERC by either (i) FERC
    approval of a settlement, or (ii) the hearing process
    described above, in the course of which the presiding judge
    would issue initial recommended decision(s) which would be
    considered by FERC.* In that event, FERC would issue an order
    that would either be consistent or inconsistent with any
    recommended decision, after which any new rates would go into
    effect.* Supply Corporation expects the proposed settlement to
    be approved.* If this matter goes to hearing, Supply Corporation
    will vigorously oppose the complaint.*

Empire currently does not have a rate case on file with the
    NYPSC. Management will continue to monitor its financial
    position in the New York jurisdiction to determine the necessity
    of filing a rate case in the future.

Among the issues that will be resolved in connection with
    Empire s FERC application to build the Empire Connector are
    the rates and terms of service that would become applicable to
    all of Empire s business, effective upon Empire accepting
    the FERC certificate and placing its new facilities into service
    (currently targeted for November 2008, or sooner if feasible).
    At that time, Empire would become an interstate pipeline subject
    to FERC regulation.*

A preliminary determination was issued in the Empire Connector
    FERC proceeding on July 20, 2006, resolving the rate and
    other non-environmental issues subject to the outcome of pending
    rehearing requests and any future appeals, and requiring Empire
    to make a compliance filing with respect to certain
    non-environmental issues. Empire made its compliance filing on
    September 18, 2006. This filing developed initial rates
    applicable to Empire s existing services (as they would
    look under FERC regulation), based on a derived annual cost of
    service of $30.4 million. Included in this derived cost of
    service is a change of Empire s transmission plant annual
    depreciation rate from 4% to 2.5%, resulting in a reduction of
    $3.3 million in the filed-for cost of service. This
    depreciation change would have no impact on earnings because the
    resulting decrease in revenue would be matched by a decrease in
    depreciation expense. The initial rates developed from this cost
    of service are under a straight fixed variable rate design,
    where all fixed elements of cost of service would be recovered
    under a fixed monthly reservation charge, and costs which vary
    with throughput would be recovered in charges per Dth of
    throughput. This rate design would eliminate most of the revenue
    variability associated with weather.*

On September 13, 2006 the New York State Department of
    Environmental Conservation issued an Air State Facility Permit
    for the Oakfield compressor station, a part of the Empire
    Connector project. On October 13, 2006, FERC issued a final
    supplemental environmental impact statement on the Empire
    Connector project and the other related downstream projects,
    indicating that FERC has not identified any environmental
    reasons why those projects could not be built, and that it is
    the preferred alternative. The next steps at FERC would be the
    issuance and acceptance of Certificates of Public Convenience
    and Necessity on all the related projects, followed by
    additional environmental permits from the U.S. Army Corps
    of Engineers and state environmental agencies.* The Company
    expects that all the necessary permits will be obtained and
    accepted, firm service agreements signed, acceptable proposals
    for materials and construction-related services will be received
    and accepted, and the Empire Connector project will be built and
    in service by November 2008. *

ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS  

The Company is subject to various federal, state and local laws
    and regulations relating to the protection of the environment.
    The Company has established procedures for the ongoing
    evaluation of its operations to identify potential environmental
    exposures and comply with regulatory policies and procedures. It
    is the

56

Table of Contents   

Company s policy to accrue estimated environmental
     clean-up 
    costs (investigation and remediation) when such amounts can
    reasonably be estimated and it is probable that the Company will
    be required to incur such costs. The Company has estimated its
    remaining
     clean-up 
    costs related to former manufactured gas plant sites and third
    party waste disposal sites will be $3.8 million.* This
    liability has been recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at
    September 30, 2006. The Company expects to recover its
    environmental
     clean-up 
    costs from a combination of rate recovery and insurance
    proceeds.* Other than discussed in Note H (referred to
    below), the Company is currently not aware of any material
    additional exposure to environmental liabilities. However,
    adverse changes in environmental regulations or other factors
    could impact the Company.*

For further discussion refer to Item 8 at
    Note H   Commitments and Contingencies under the
    heading  Environmental Matters. 

NEW
    ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47, an interpretation of
    SFAS 143. FIN 47 provides additional guidance on the
    term  conditional asset retirement obligation  as used
    in SFAS 143, and in particular the standard clarifies when
    a Company must record a liability for a conditional asset
    retirement obligation. The Company has adopted FIN 47 as of
    September 30, 2006. Refer to Item 8 at
    Note B   Asset Retirement Obligations for further
    disclosure regarding the impact of FIN 47 on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154. SFAS 154
    replaces APB 20 and SFAS 3 and changes the
    requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in
    accounting principle. The Company s financial condition and
    results of operations will only be impacted by SFAS 154 if
    there are any accounting changes or corrections of errors in the
    future. For further discussion of SFAS 154 and its impact
    on the Company, refer to Item 8 at Note A  
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.

In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48, an interpretation of
    SFAS 109. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for
    uncertainty in income taxes and reduces the diversity in current
    practice associated with the financial statement recognition and
    measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a
    tax return by defining a  more-likely-than-not 
    threshold regarding the sustainability of the position. The
    Company is currently evaluating the impact of FIN 48 on its
    consolidated financial statements. For further discussion of
    FIN 48 and its impact on the Company, refer to Item 8
    at Note A   Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157. SFAS 157
    provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and
    liabilities. The pronouncement serves to clarify the extent to
    which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value,
    the information used to measure fair value, and the effect that
    fair-value measurements have on earnings. The Company is
    currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of
    SFAS 157 will have on its consolidated financial
    statements. For further discussion of SFAS 157 and its
    impact on the Company, refer to Item 8 at
    Note A   Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 158, an amendment
    of SFAS 87, SFAS 88, SFAS 106, and
    SFAS 132R. SFAS 158 requires that companies recognize
    a net liability or asset to report the underfunded or overfunded
    status of their defined benefit pension and other
    post-retirement benefit plans on their balance sheets, as well
    as recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit
    post-retirement plan in the year in which the changes occur
    through comprehensive income. The pronouncement also specifies
    that a plan s assets and obligations that determine its
    funded status be measured as of the end of Company s fiscal
    year, with limited exceptions. The Company is required to
    recognize the funded status of its benefit plans and the
    disclosure requirements of SFAS 158 by the fourth quarter
    of fiscal 2007. The requirement to measure the plan assets and
    benefit obligations as of the Company s fiscal year-end
    date will be adopted by the Company by the end of fiscal 2009.
    If the Company recognized the funded status of its pension and
    post-retirement benefit plans at September 30, 2006, the
    Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet would reflect a
    liability of $220.8 million instead of the prepaid pension
    and post-retirement costs of $64.1 million and pension and
    post-retirement liabilities of $32.9 million that are
    currently presented on the balance sheet at September 30,
    2006. The Company expects that it will record a regulatory asset
    for the majority of this liability with the remainder reflected
    in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The difference
    between what the Company

57

Table of Contents   

currently records on its Consolidated Balance Sheet for its
    pension and post-retirement benefit obligations and what it will
    be required to record under SFAS 158 is due to certain
    unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and unrecognized prior
    service costs for both the pension and other post-retirement
    benefit plans as well as an unrecognized transition obligation
    for the other post-retirement benefit plan. These amounts are
    not required to be recorded on the Company s Consolidated
    Balance Sheet under the current accounting standards, but were
    instead amortized over a period of time.

EFFECTS
    OF INFLATION  

Although the rate of inflation has been relatively low over the
    past few years, the Company s operations remain sensitive
    to increases in the rate of inflation because of its capital
    spending and the regulated nature of a significant portion of
    its business.

SAFE
    HARBOR FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

The Company is including the following cautionary statement in
    this
     Form 10-K 
    to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor
    provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf
    of, the Company. Forward-looking statements include statements
    concerning plans, objectives, goals, projections, strategies,
    future events or performance, and underlying assumptions and
    other statements which are other than statements of historical
    facts. From time to time, the Company may publish or otherwise
    make available forward-looking statements of this nature. All
    such subsequent forward-looking statements, whether written or
    oral and whether made by or on behalf of the Company, are also
    expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. Certain
    statements contained in this report, including, without
    limitation, those which are designated with an asterisk
    ( * ) and those which are identified by the use of the
    words  anticipates,   estimates, 
     expects,   intends,   plans, 
     predicts,   projects,  and similar
    expressions, are  forward-looking  statements as
    defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
    and accordingly involve risks and uncertainties which could
    cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those
    expressed in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking
    statements contained herein are based on various assumptions,
    many of which are based, in turn, upon further assumptions. The
    Company s expectations, beliefs and projections are
    expressed in good faith and are believed by the Company to have
    a reasonable basis, including, without limitation,
    management s examination of historical operating trends,
    data contained in the Company s records and other data
    available from third parties, but there can be no assurance that
    management s expectations, beliefs or projections will
    result or be achieved or accomplished. In addition to other
    factors and matters discussed elsewhere herein, the following
    are important factors that, in the view of the Company, could
    cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed
    in the forward-looking statements:

1. 

Changes in laws and regulations to which the Company is subject,
    including changes in tax, environmental, safety and employment
    laws and regulations;

2. 

Changes in economic conditions, including economic disruptions
    caused by terrorist activities, acts of war or major accidents;

3. 

Changes in demographic patterns and weather conditions,
    including the occurrence of severe weather such as hurricanes;

4. 

Changes in the availability
     and/or  price
    of natural gas or oil and the effect of such changes on the
    accounting treatment or valuation of derivative financial
    instruments or the Company s natural gas and oil reserves;

5. 

Impairments under the SEC s full cost ceiling test for
    natural gas and oil reserves;

6. 

Changes in the availability
     and/or  price
    of derivative financial instruments;

7. 

Changes in the price differentials between various types of oil;

8. 

Failure of the price differential between heavy sour crude oil
    and light sweet crude oil to return to its historical norm;

58

Table of Contents   

9. 

Inability to obtain new customers or retain existing ones;

10. 
 
         Significant changes in competitive factors affecting the Company;

11. 
 
         Governmental/regulatory actions, initiatives and proceedings,
    including those involving acquisitions, financings, rate cases
    (which address, among other things, allowed rates of return,
    rate design and retained gas), affiliate relationships, industry
    structure, franchise renewal, and environmental/safety
    requirements;

12. 
 
         Unanticipated impacts of restructuring initiatives in the
    natural gas and electric industries;

13. 
 
         Significant changes from expectations in actual capital
    expenditures and operating expenses and unanticipated project
    delays or changes in project costs or plans, including changes
    in the plans of the sponsors of the proposed Millennium Pipeline
    with respect to that project;

14. 
 
         The nature and projected profitability of pending and potential
    projects and other investments;

15. 
 
         Occurrences affecting the Company s ability to obtain funds
    from operations or from issuances of debt or equity securities
    to finance needed capital expenditures and other investments,
    including any downgrades in the Company s credit ratings;

16. 
 
         Uncertainty of oil and gas reserve estimates;

17. 
 
         Ability to successfully identify and finance acquisitions or
    other investments and ability to operate and integrate existing
    and any subsequently acquired business or properties;

18. 
 
         Ability to successfully identify, drill for and produce
    economically viable natural gas and oil reserves;

19. 
 
         Significant changes from expectations in the Company s
    actual production levels for natural gas or oil;

20. 
 
         Regarding foreign operations, changes in trade and monetary
    policies, inflation and exchange rates, taxes, operating
    conditions, laws and regulations related to foreign operations,
    and political and governmental changes;

21. 
 
         Significant changes in tax rates or policies or in rates of
    inflation or interest;

22. 
 
         Significant changes in the Company s relationship with its
    employees or contractors and
    the          
    potential adverse effects if labor disputes, grievances or
    shortages were to occur;

23. 
 
         Changes in accounting principles or the application of such
    principles to the Company;

24. 
 
         The cost and effects of legal and administrative claims against
    the Company;

25. 
 
         Changes in actuarial assumptions and the return on assets with
    respect to the Company s retirement plan and
    post-retirement benefit plans;

26. 
 
         Increasing health care costs and the resulting effect on health
    insurance premiums and on the obligation to provide
    post-retirement benefits; or

27. 
 
         Increasing costs of insurance, changes in coverage and the
    ability to obtain insurance.

The Company disclaims any obligation to update any
    forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances
    after the date hereof.

Item 7A      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Refer to the  Market Risk Sensitive Instruments 
    section in Item 7, MD&A.

59

Table of Contents   

Item 8      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Index
    to Financial Statements    

Page 

Financial Statements: 

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

61

Consolidated
    Statements of Income and Earnings Reinvested in the Business,
    three years ended September 30, 2006  

63

Consolidated
    Balance Sheets at September 30, 2006 and 2005  

64

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows, three years ended September 30,
    2006  

65

Consolidated
    Statements of Comprehensive Income, three years ended
    September 30, 2006  

66

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  

67

Financial Statement Schedules:

For the three years ended
    September 30, 2006

Schedule II  
    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  

113

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
    or the required information is shown in the Consolidated
    Financial Statements or Notes thereto.

Supplementary
    Data    

Supplementary data that is included in Note M  
    Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) and Note O  
    Supplementary Information for Oil and Gas Producing Activities,
    appears under this Item, and reference is made thereto.

60

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of National Fuel Gas
    Company:

We have completed integrated audits of National Fuel Gas
    Company s fiscal 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial
    statements and of its internal control over financial reporting
    as of September 30, 2006, and an audit of its fiscal 2004
    consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
    standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are
    presented below.

Consolidated
    financial statements and financial statement
    schedule   

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects,
    the financial position of National Fuel Gas Company and its
    subsidiaries at September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the
    results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
    three years in the period ended September 30, 2006 in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the
    financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index
    presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
    forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
    consolidated financial statements. These financial statements
    and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
    Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
    schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
    statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
    Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements
    includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
    amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
    the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

Internal
    control over financial reporting   

Also, in our opinion, management s assessment, included in
     Management s Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting  appearing under Item 9A, that the
    Company maintained effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of September 30, 2006 based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly
    stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria.
    Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
    material respects, effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the COSO. The Company s management
    is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
    is to express opinions on management s assessment and on
    the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit
    of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with
    the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal
    control over financial reporting includes obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating
    the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and
    performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of

61

Table of Contents   

the company are being made only in accordance with
    authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
    (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
    timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
    disposition of the company s assets that could have a
    material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Buffalo, New York

December 7, 2006

62

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL
    FUEL GAS COMPANY 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND EARNINGS 

REINVESTED
    IN THE BUSINESS   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

63

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL
    FUEL GAS COMPANY 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

64

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL
    FUEL GAS COMPANY 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

65

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL
    FUEL GAS COMPANY 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

66

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL
    FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

Note A  
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

Principles
    of Consolidation   

The Company consolidates its majority owned entities. The equity
    method is used to account for minority owned entities. All
    significant intercompany balances and transactions are
    eliminated.

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
    at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
    of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
    results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassification   

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform
    with current year presentation.

Regulation   

The Company is subject to regulation by certain state and
    federal authorities. The Company has accounting policies which
    conform to GAAP, as applied to regulated enterprises, and are in
    accordance with the accounting requirements and ratemaking
    practices of the regulatory authorities. Reference is made to
    Note C   Regulatory Matters for further
    discussion.

Revenues   

The Company s Utility segment records revenue as bills are
    rendered, except that service supplied but not billed is
    reported as unbilled utility revenue and is included in
    operating revenues for the year in which service is furnished.
    The Company s Pipeline and Storage and Energy Marketing
    segments record revenue as bills are rendered for service
    supplied on a calendar month basis. The Company s Timber
    segment records revenue on lumber and log sales as products are
    shipped.

The Company s Exploration and Production segment records
    revenue based on entitlement, which means that revenue is
    recorded based on the actual amount of gas or oil that is
    delivered to a pipeline and the Company s ownership
    interest in the producing well. If a production imbalance occurs
    between what was supposed to be delivered to a pipeline and what
    was actually produced and delivered, the Company accrues the
    difference as an imbalance.

Allowance
    for Uncollectible Accounts   

The allowance for uncollectible accounts is the Company s
    best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in the
    existing accounts receivable. The allowance is determined based
    on historical experience, the age and other specific information
    about customer accounts. Account balances are charged off
    against the allowance twelve months after the account is final
    billed or when it is anticipated that the receivable will not be
    recovered.

Regulatory
    Mechanisms   

The Company s rate schedules in the Utility segment contain
    clauses that permit adjustment of revenues to reflect price
    changes from the cost of purchased gas included in base rates.
    Differences between amounts currently recoverable and actual
    adjustment clause revenues, as well as other price changes and
    pipeline and storage company refunds not yet includable in
    adjustment clause rates, are deferred and accounted for as
    either unrecovered purchased gas costs or amounts payable to
    customers. Such amounts are generally recovered from (or passed
    back to) customers during the following fiscal year.

67

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Estimated refund liabilities to ratepayers represent
    management s current estimate of such refunds. Reference is
    made to Note C   Regulatory Matters for further
    discussion.

The impact of weather on revenues in the Utility segment s
    New York rate jurisdiction is tempered by a WNC, which covers
    the eight-month period from October through May. The WNC is
    designed to adjust the rates of retail customers to reflect the
    impact of deviations from normal weather. Weather that is more
    than 2.2% warmer than normal results in a surcharge being added
    to customers  current bills, while weather that is more
    than 2.2% colder than normal results in a refund being credited
    to customers  current bills. Since the Utility
    segment s Pennsylvania rate jurisdiction does not have a
    WNC, weather variations have a direct impact on the Pennsylvania
    rate jurisdiction s revenues.

In the Pipeline and Storage segment, the allowed rates that
    Supply Corporation bills its customers are based on a straight
    fixed-variable rate design, which allows recovery of all fixed
    costs in fixed monthly reservation charges. The allowed rates
    that Empire bills its customers are based on a modified-fixed
    variable rate design, which allows recovery of most fixed costs
    in fixed monthly reservation charges. To distinguish between the
    two rate designs, the modified fixed-variable rate design
    recovers return on equity and income taxes through variable
    charges whereas straight fixed-variable recovers all fixed
    costs, including return on equity and income taxes, through its
    monthly reservation charge. Because of the difference in rate
    design, changes in throughput due to weather variations do not
    have a significant impact on Supply Corporation s revenues
    but may have a significant impact on Empire s revenues.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

The principal assets of the Utility and Pipeline and Storage
    segments, consisting primarily of gas plant in service, are
    recorded at the historical cost when originally devoted to
    service in the regulated businesses, as required by regulatory
    authorities.

Oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development
    costs are capitalized under the full cost method of accounting.
    All costs directly associated with property acquisition,
    exploration and development activities are capitalized, up to
    certain specified limits. If capitalized costs exceed these
    limits at the end of any quarter, a permanent impairment is
    required to be charged to earnings in that quarter. The
    Company s capitalized costs exceeded the full cost ceiling
    for the Company s Canadian properties at June 30, 2006
    and September 30, 2006. As such, the Company recognized
    pre-tax impairments of $62.4 million at June 30, 2006
    and $42.3 million at September 30, 2006.

Maintenance and repairs of property and replacements of minor
    items of property are charged directly to maintenance expense.
    The original cost of the regulated subsidiaries  property,
    plant and equipment retired, and the cost of removal less
    salvage, are charged to accumulated depreciation.

68

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Depreciation,
    Depletion and Amortization   

For oil and gas properties, depreciation, depletion and
    amortization is computed based on quantities produced in
    relation to proved reserves using the units of production
    method. The cost of unevaluated oil and gas properties is
    excluded from this computation. For timber properties,
    depletion, determined on a property by property basis, is
    charged to operations based on the actual amount of timber cut
    in relation to the total amount of recoverable timber. For all
    other property, plant and equipment, depreciation, depletion and
    amortization is computed using the straight-line method in
    amounts sufficient to recover costs over the estimated service
    lives of property in service. The following is a summary of
    depreciable plant by segment:

Average depreciation, depletion and amortization rates are as
    follows:

(1)  

Amounts include depletion of oil and gas producing properties as
    well as depreciation of fixed assets. As disclosed in
    Note O   Supplementary Information for Oil and
    Gas Producing Properties, depletion of oil and gas producing
    properties amounted to $1.98, $1.72 and $1.47 per Mcfe of
    production in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

Goodwill   

The Company has recognized goodwill of $5.5 million as of
    September 30, 2006 and 2005 on its consolidated balance
    sheet related to the Company s acquisition of Empire in
    2003. The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with
    SFAS 142, which requires the Company to test goodwill for
    impairment annually. At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the
    fair value of Empire was greater than its book value. As such,
    the goodwill was considered not impaired.

Financial
    Instruments   

Unrealized gains or losses from the Company s investments
    in an equity mutual fund and the stock of an insurance company
    (securities available for sale) are recorded as a component of
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Reference is made
    to Note F   Financial Instruments for further
    discussion.

69

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The Company uses a variety of derivative financial instruments
    to manage a portion of the market risk associated with
    fluctuations in the price of natural gas and crude oil. These
    instruments include price swap agreements, no cost collars,
    options and futures contracts. The Company accounts for these
    instruments as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. In
    both cases, the fair value of the instrument is recognized on
    the Consolidated Balance Sheets as either an asset or a
    liability labeled fair value of derivative financial
    instruments. Fair value represents the amount the Company would
    receive or pay to terminate these instruments.

For effective cash flow hedges, the offset to the asset or
    liability that is recorded is a gain or loss recorded in
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets. Any ineffectiveness associated with
    the cash flow hedges is recorded in the Consolidated Statements
    of Income. The Company did not experience any material
    ineffectiveness with regard to its cash flow hedges during 2006
    or 2004. The gain or loss recorded in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) remains there until the hedged
    transaction occurs, at which point the gains or losses are
    reclassified to operating revenues, purchased gas expense or
    interest expense on the Consolidated Statements of Income. At
    September 30, 2005, it was determined that certain
    derivative financial instruments no longer qualified as
    effective cash flow hedges due to anticipated delays in oil and
    gas production volumes caused by Hurricane Rita. These volumes
    were originally forecast to be produced in the first quarter of
    2006. As such, at September 30, 2005, the Company
    reclassified $5.1 million in accumulated losses on such
    derivative financial instruments from accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) on the Consolidated Balance Sheet to
    other revenues on the Consolidated Statement of Income. For fair
    value hedges, the offset to the asset or liability that is
    recorded is a gain or loss recorded to operating revenues or
    purchased gas expense on the Consolidated Statements of Income.
    However, in the case of fair value hedges, the Company also
    records an asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
    representing the change in fair value of the asset or firm
    commitment that is being hedged (see Other Current Assets
    section in this footnote). The offset to this asset or liability
    is a gain or loss recorded to operating revenues or purchased
    gas expense on the Consolidated Statements of Income as well. If
    the fair value hedge is effective, the gain or loss from the
    derivative financial instrument is offset by the gain or loss
    that arises from the change in fair value of the asset or firm
    commitment that is being hedged. The Company did not experience
    any material ineffectiveness with regard to its fair value
    hedges during 2006, 2005 or 2004.

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)   

The components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
    are as follows:

At September 30, 2006, it is estimated that of the
    $11.5 million net unrealized loss on derivative financial
    instruments shown in the table above $12.7 million will be
    reclassified into the Consolidated Statement of Income during
    2007. The remaining unrealized gain on derivative financial
    instruments of $1.2 million will be reclassified into the
    Consolidated Statement of Income in subsequent years. As
    disclosed in Note F   Financial Instruments, the
    Company s derivative financial instruments extend out to
    2012.

70

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Gas
    Stored Underground   Current   

In the Utility segment, gas stored underground  
    current in the amount of $29.5 million is carried at lower
    of cost or market, on a LIFO method. Based upon the average
    price of spot market gas purchased in September 2006, including
    transportation costs, the current cost of replacing this
    inventory of gas stored underground   current exceeded
    the amount stated on a LIFO basis by approximately
    $136.0 million at September 30, 2006. All other gas
    stored underground   current, which is in the Energy
    Marketing segment, is carried at lower of cost or market on an
    average cost method.

Purchased
    Timber Rights   

In the Timber segment, the Company purchases the right to
    harvest timber from land owned by other parties. These rights,
    which extend from several months to several years, are purchased
    to ensure a consistent supply of timber for the Company s
    sawmill and kiln operations. The historical value of timber
    rights expected to be harvested during the following year are
    included in Materials and Supplies on the Consolidated Balance
    Sheets while the historical value of timber rights expected to
    be harvested beyond one year are included in Other Assets on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets. The components of the
    Company s purchased timber rights are as follows:

Unamortized
    Debt Expense   

Costs associated with the issuance of debt by the Company are
    deferred and amortized over the lives of the related debt. Costs
    associated with the reacquisition of debt related to
    rate-regulated subsidiaries are deferred and amortized over the
    remaining life of the issue or the life of the replacement debt
    in order to match regulatory treatment.

Foreign
    Currency Translation   

The functional currency for the Company s foreign
    operations is the local currency of the country where the
    operations are located. Asset and liability accounts are
    translated at the rate of exchange on the balance sheet date.
    Revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange
    rate during the period. Foreign currency translation adjustments
    are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss).

Income
    Taxes   

The Company and its domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated
    federal income tax return. Investment tax credit, prior to its
    repeal in 1986, was deferred and is being amortized over the
    estimated useful lives of the related property, as required by
    regulatory authorities having jurisdiction.

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows   

For purposes of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the
    Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased
    with a maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

71

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Hedging
    Collateral Account   

Cash held in margin accounts serves as collateral for open
    positions on exchange-traded futures contracts, exchange-traded
    options and
     over-the-counter 
    swaps and collars.

Other
    Current Assets   

Other Current Assets consist of prepayments in the amounts of
    $25.7 million and $23.9 million at September 30,
    2006 and 2005, respectively, federal income taxes receivable in
    the amounts of $7.5 million and $27.1 million at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, state income
    taxes receivable in the amounts of $7.4 million and
    $2.6 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively, and fair values of firm commitments in the amounts
    of $23.1 million and $13.7 million at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Earnings
    Per Common Share   

Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing income
    available for common stock by the weighted average number of
    common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per
    common share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if
    securities or other contracts to issue common stock were
    exercised or converted into common stock. The only potentially
    dilutive securities the Company has outstanding are stock
    options. The diluted weighted average shares outstanding shown
    on the Consolidated Statements of Income reflect the potential
    dilution as a result of these stock options as determined using
    the Treasury Stock Method. Stock options that are antidilutive
    are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common
    share. For 2006, 119,241 stock options were excluded as being
    antidilutive. There were no stock options excluded as being
    antidilutive for 2005. For 2004, 2,296,828 stock options were
    excluded as being antidilutive.

Share
    Repurchases   

The Company considers all shares repurchased as cancelled shares
    restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares, in
    accordance with New Jersey law. The repurchases are accounted
    for on the date the share repurchase is settled as an adjustment
    to common stock (at par value) with the excess repurchase price
    allocated between paid in capital and retained earnings. Refer
    to Note E   Capitalization and Short-Term
    Borrowings for further discussion of the share repurchase
    program.

Stock-Based
    Compensation   

The Company has various stock option and stock award plans which
    provide or provided for the issuance of one or more of the
    following to key employees: incentive stock options,
    nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, performance units
    or performance shares. Stock options under all plans have
    exercise prices equal to the average market price of Company
    common stock on the date of grant, and generally no option is
    exercisable less than one year or more than ten years after the
    date of each grant. Restricted stock is subject to restrictions
    on vesting and transferability. Restricted stock awards entitle
    the participants to full dividend and voting rights.
    Certificates for shares of restricted stock awarded under the
    Company s stock option and stock award plans are held by
    the Company during the periods in which the restrictions on
    vesting are effective. Restrictions on restricted stock awards
    generally lapse ratably over a period of not more than ten years
    after the date of each grant.

Prior to October 1, 2005, the Company accounted for its
    stock-based compensation under the recognition and measurement
    principles of APB 25 and related interpretations. Under
    that method, no compensation expense was recognized for options
    granted under the Company s stock option and stock award
    plans. The Company did record, in accordance with APB 25,
    compensation expense for the market value of restricted stock on
    the date of the award over the periods during which the vesting
    restrictions existed.

72

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted
    SFAS 123R, which requires the measurement and recognition
    of compensation cost at fair value for all share-based payments,
    including stock options. The Company has chosen to use the
    modified version of prospective application, as allowed by
    SFAS 123R. Using the modified prospective application, the
    Company is recording compensation cost for the portion of awards
    granted prior to October 1, 2005 for which the requisite
    service had not been rendered and is recognizing such
    compensation cost as the requisite service is rendered on or
    after October 1, 2005. Such compensation expense is based
    on the grant-date fair value of the awards as calculated for the
    Company s disclosure using a Binomial option-pricing model
    under SFAS 123. Any new awards, modifications to awards,
    repurchases of awards, or cancellations of awards subsequent to
    September 30, 2005 will follow the provisions of
    SFAS 123R, with compensation expense being calculated using
    the Black-Scholes-Merton closed form model. The Company has
    chosen the Black-Scholes-Merton closed form model since it is
    easier to administer than the Binomial option-pricing model.
    Furthermore, since the Company does not have complex stock-based
    compensation awards, it does not believe that compensation
    expense would be materially different under either model. There
    were 317,000, 700,000 and 87,000 stock-based compensation awards
    granted during the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively. Stock-based compensation expense for the
    years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005,
    and September 30, 2004 was approximately $1,705,000
    ($442,000 of which relates to the application of the
    non-substantive vesting period approach discussed below),
    $517,000 and $835,000, respectively. Stock-based compensation
    expense is included in operation and maintenance expense on the
    Consolidated Statement of Income. The total income tax benefit
    related to stock-based compensation expense during the years
    ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was approximately
    $653,000, $206,000 and $333,000, respectively. There were no
    capitalized stock-based compensation costs during the years
    ended September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the Company followed
    the nominal vesting period approach under the disclosure
    requirements of SFAS 123 for determining the vesting period
    for awards with retirement-eligible provisions, which recognized
    stock-based compensation expense over the nominal vesting
    period. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R, the
    Company currently applies the non-substantive vesting period
    approach for determining the vesting period of such awards.
    Under this approach, the retention of the award is not
    contingent on providing subsequent service and the vesting
    period would begin at the grant date and end at the
    retirement-eligible date. For the year ended September 30,
    2006, the Company recognized an additional $442,000
    ($288,000 net of tax) of stock-based compensation expense
    by applying the non-substantive vesting approach. For the year
    ended September 30, 2005, stock-based compensation expense
    would have been $4,282,000 ($2,752,000 net of tax) for pro
    forma recognition purposes had the non-substantive vesting
    period approach been used. The pro forma stock-based
    compensation expense would have been $2,670,000
    ($1,798,000 net of tax) under the non-substantive vesting
    period approach for the year ended September 30, 2004. Pro
    forma stock-based compensation expense following the nominal
    vesting period approach is shown in the table below.

73

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The following table illustrates the effect on net income and
    earnings per share of the Company had the Company applied the
    fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 relating to
    stock-based employee compensation for the years ended
    September 30, 2005 and 2004:

Stock
    Options    

The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the
    years ended September 30, 2006, September 30, 2005,
    and September 30, 2004 totaled approximately
    $30.9 million, $19.8 million, and $12.4 million,
    respectively. For 2006, 2005 and 2004, the amount of cash
    received by the Company from the exercise of such stock options
    was approximately $30.1 million, $24.8 million, and
    $16.4 million, respectively. The Company realizes tax
    benefits related to the exercise of stock options on a calendar
    year basis as opposed to a fiscal year basis. As such, for stock
    options exercised during the quarters ended December 31,
    2005, December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, the
    Company realized a tax benefit of $0.9 million,
    $1.1 million, and $0.1 million, respectively. For
    stock options exercised during the period of January 1,
    2006 through September 30, 2006, the Company will realize a
    tax benefit of approximately $11.4 million in the quarter
    ended December 31, 2006. For stock options exercised during
    the period of January 1, 2005 through September 30,
    2005, the Company realized a tax benefit of approximately
    $6.3 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2005.
    For stock options exercised during the period of January 1,
    2004 through September 30, 2004, the Company realized a tax
    benefit of approximately $4.8 million in the quarter ended
    December 31, 2004. The weighted average grant date fair
    value of options granted in 2006, 2005 and 2004 is
    $6.68 per share, $4.59 per share, and $4.66 per
    share, respectively. For the years ended September 30,
    2006, 2005 and 2004, 89,665, 1,375,105 and 729,156 stock options
    became fully vested, respectively. The total fair value of these
    stock options was approximately $0.4 million,
    $6.2 million and $3.3 million, respectively, for the
    years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. As of
    September 30, 2006, unrecognized compensation expense
    related to stock options totaled approximately
    $0.9 million, which will be recognized over a weighted
    average period of one year. For a summary of transactions during
    2006 involving option shares for all plans, refer to
    Note E   Capitalization and Short-Term Borrowings.

74

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The fair value of options at the date of grant was estimated
    using a Binomial option-pricing model for options granted prior
    to October 1, 2005 and the Black-Scholes-Merton closed form
    model for options granted after September 30, 2005. The
    following weighted average assumptions were used in estimating
    the fair value of options at the date of grant:

The risk-free interest rate is based on the yield of a Treasury
    Note with a remaining term commensurate with the expected term
    of the option. The expected life and expected volatility are
    based on historical experience.

For grants prior to October 1, 2005, the Company used a
    forfeiture rate of 13.6% for calculating stock-based
    compensation expense related to stock options and this rate is
    based on the Company s historical experience of forfeitures
    on unvested stock option grants. For grants during the year
    ended September 30, 2006, it was assumed that there would
    be no forfeitures, based on the vesting term and the number of
    grantees.

Restricted
    Share Awards    

For a summary of transactions during 2006 involving restricted
    share awards, refer to Note E   Capitalization
    and Short-Term Borrowings.

As of September 30, 2006, unrecognized compensation expense
    related to restricted share awards totaled approximately
    $577,000, which will be recognized over a weighted average
    period of 2.1 years.

During 2006, a modification was made to a restricted share award
    involving one employee. The modification accelerated the vesting
    date of 4,000 shares from December 7, 2006 to
    July 1, 2006. The incremental compensation expense,
    totaling approximately $32,000, was included with the total
    stock-based compensation expense for the year ended
    September 30, 2006.

New
    Accounting Pronouncements   

In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47, an interpretation of
    SFAS 143. FIN 47 provides clarification of the term
     conditional asset retirement obligation  as used in
    SFAS 143, defined as a legal obligation to perform an asset
    retirement activity in which the timing
     and/or 
    method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may
    or may not be within the control of the Company. Under this
    standard, a company must record a liability for a conditional
    asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the obligation
    can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 also serves to clarify
    when a company would have sufficient information to reasonably
    estimate the fair value of a conditional asset retirement
    obligation. The Company has adopted FIN 47 as of
    September 30, 2006. Refer to Note B   Asset
    Retirement Obligations for further disclosure regarding the
    impact of FIN 47 on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154. SFAS 154
    replaces APB 20 and SFAS 3 and changes the
    requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in
    accounting principle. The Company is required to adopt
    SFAS 154 for accounting changes and corrections of errors
    that occur in 2007. The Company s financial condition and
    results of operations will only be impacted by SFAS 154 if
    there are any accounting changes or corrections of errors in the
    future.

75

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48, an interpretation of
    SFAS 109. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for
    uncertainty in income taxes and reduces the diversity in current
    practice associated with the financial statement recognition and
    measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a
    tax return by defining a  more-likely-than-not 
    threshold regarding the sustainability of the position. The
    Company is required to adopt FIN 48 by the first quarter of
    fiscal 2008. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of
    FIN 48 on its consolidated financial statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157,  Fair
    Value Measurements . SFAS 157 provides guidance for
    using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. The
    pronouncement serves to clarify the extent to which companies
    measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information
    used to measure fair value, and the effect that fair-value
    measurements have on earnings. SFAS 157 is to be applied
    whenever another standard requires or allows assets or
    liabilities to be measured at fair value. The pronouncement is
    effective as of the Company s first quarter of fiscal 2009.
    The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption
    of SFAS 157 will have on its consolidated financial
    statements.

In September 2006, the FASB also issued SFAS 158,
     Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans  (an amendment of SFAS 87,
    SFAS 88, SFAS 106, and SFAS 132R). SFAS 158
    requires that companies recognize a net liability or asset to
    report the underfunded or overfunded status of their defined
    benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans on their
    balance sheets, as well as recognize changes in the funded
    status of a defined benefit post-retirement plan in the year in
    which the changes occur through comprehensive income. The
    pronouncement also specifies that a plan s assets and
    obligations that determine its funded status be measured as of
    the end of the Company s fiscal year, with limited
    exceptions. The Company is required to recognize the funded
    status of its benefit plans and the disclosure requirements of
    SFAS 158 by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. The
    requirement to measure the plan assets and benefit obligations
    as of the Company s fiscal year-end date will be adopted by
    the Company by the end of fiscal 2009. If the Company recognized
    the funded status of its pension and post-retirement benefit
    plans at September 30, 2006, the Company s
    consolidated balance sheet would reflect a liability of
    $220.8 million instead of the prepaid pension and
    post-retirement costs of $64.1 million and pension and
    post-retirement liabilities of $32.9 million that are
    currently presented on the balance sheet at September 30,
    2006. The Company expects that it will record a regulatory asset
    for the majority of this liability with the remainder reflected
    in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Note B  
    Asset Retirement Obligations  

Effective October 1, 2002, the Company adopted
    SFAS 143. SFAS 143 requires entities to record the
    fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in
    the period in which it is incurred. When the liability is
    initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the estimated cost of
    retiring the asset as part of the carrying amount of the related
    long-lived asset. Over time, the liability is adjusted to its
    present value each period and the capitalized cost is
    depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. Upon the
    adoption of SFAS 143, the Company recorded an asset
    retirement obligation representing plugging and abandonment
    costs associated with the Exploration and Production
    segment s crude oil and natural gas wells.

On September 30, 2006, the Company adopted FIN 47, an
    interpretation of SFAS 143. FIN 47 provides
    clarification of the term  conditional asset retirement
    obligation  as used in SFAS 143, defined as a legal
    obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the
    timing
     and/or 
    method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may
    or may not be within the control of the Company. Under this
    standard, if the fair value of a conditional asset retirement
    obligation can be reasonably estimated, a company must record a
    liability and a corresponding asset for the conditional asset
    retirement obligation representing the present value of that
    obligation at the date the obligation was incurred. FIN 47
    also serves to clarify when a company would have sufficient
    information to reasonably estimate the fair value of a
    conditional asset retirement obligation.

76

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

As a result of the adoption of FIN 47, the Company
    identified future asset retirement obligations associated with
    the plugging and abandonment of natural gas storage wells in the
    Pipeline and Storage segment and the removal of asbestos and
    asbestos-containing material in various facilities in the
    Utility and Pipeline and Storage segments. The Company also
    identified asset retirement obligations for certain costs
    connected with the retirement of distribution mains and services
    pipeline systems in the Utility segment and with the
    transmission mains and other components in the pipeline systems
    in the Pipeline and Storage segment. These retirement costs
    within the distribution and transmission systems are primarily
    for the capping and purging of pipe, which are generally
    abandoned in place when retired, as well as for the
     clean-up  of
    PCB contamination associated with the removal of certain pipe.

A reconciliation of the Company s asset retirement
    obligation calculated in accordance with SFAS 143 is shown
    below ($000s):

As a result of the implementation of FIN 47 as of
    September 30, 2006, the Company recorded additional asset
    retirement obligations of $23.2 million and corresponding
    long-lived plant assets, net of accumulated depreciation, of
    $3.5 million. These assets will be depreciated over their
    respective remaining depreciable life. The remaining
    $19.7 million represents the cumulative accretion and
    depreciation of the asset retirement obligations that would have
    been recognized if this interpretation had been in effect at the
    inception of the obligations. Of this amount, the Company
    recorded an increase to regulatory assets of $9.0 million
    and a reduction to cost of removal regulatory liability of
    $10.7 million. The cost of removal regulatory liability
    represents amounts collected from customers through depreciation
    expense in the Company s Utility and Pipeline and Storage
    segments. These removal costs are not a legal retirement
    obligation in accordance with SFAS 143. Rather, they
    represent a regulatory liability. However, SFAS 143
    requires that such costs of removal be reclassified from
    accumulated depreciation to other regulatory liabilities. At
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, the costs of removal
    reclassified to other regulatory liabilities amounted to
    $85.1 million and $90.4 million, respectively.

Pursuant to FIN 47, the financial statements for periods
    prior to September 30, 2006 have not been restated. If
    FIN 47 had been in effect, the Company would have recorded
    additional asset retirement obligations of $21.9 million at
    September 30, 2005, and $20.6 million at
    October 1, 2004.

77

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Note C  
    Regulatory Matters  

Regulatory
    Assets and Liabilities   

The Company has recorded the following regulatory assets and
    liabilities:

(1)  

The Company recovers the cost of its regulatory assets but, with
    the exception of Unrecovered Purchased Gas Costs, does not earn
    a return on them. 

(2)  

Included in Other Regulatory Assets on the Consolidated Balance
    Sheets. 

(3)  

Included in Other Regulatory Liabilities on the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets. 

If for any reason the Company ceases to meet the criteria for
    application of regulatory accounting treatment for all or part
    of its operations, the regulatory assets and liabilities related
    to those portions ceasing to meet such criteria would be
    eliminated from the balance sheet and included in income of the
    period in which the discontinuance of regulatory accounting
    treatment occurs. Such amounts would be classified as an
    extraordinary item.

78

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

New
    York Rate Settlements   

With respect to utility services provided in New York, the
    Company has entered into rate settlements approved by the NYPSC.
    The rate settlements have given rise to several significant
    liabilities, which are described as follows:

Gross Receipts Tax Over-Collections    In
    accordance with NYPSC policies, Distribution Corporation
    deferred the difference between the revenues it collects under a
    New York State gross receipts tax surcharge and its actual New
    York State income tax expense. Distribution Corporation s
    cumulative gross receipts tax revenues exceeded its New York
    State income tax expense, resulting in a regulatory liability at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005 of $19.8 million and
    $34.3 million, respectively. Under the terms of its 2005
    rate settlement, Distribution Corporation will pass back that
    regulatory liability to rate payers over a twenty-four month
    period that began August 1, 2005. Further, the gross
    receipts tax surcharge that gave rise to the regulatory
    liability was eliminated from Distribution Corporation s
    tariff (New York State income taxes are now recovered as a
    component of base rates).

Cost Mitigation Reserve ( CMR )    The
    CMR is a regulatory liability that can be used to offset certain
    expense items specified in Distribution Corporation s rate
    settlements. The source of the CMR is principally the
    accumulation of certain refunds from upstream pipeline
    companies. During 2005, under the terms of the 2005 rate
    settlement, Distribution Corporation transferred the remaining
    balance in a generic restructuring reserve (which had been
    established in a prior rate settlement) and the balances it had
    accumulated under various earnings sharing mechanisms to the
    CMR. The balance in the CMR at September 30, 2006 and 2005
    amounted to $7.6 million and $7.0 million,
    respectively.

Other    The 2005 settlement also established a
    reserve to fund area development projects. The balance in the
    area development projects reserve at September 30, 2006 and
    2005 amounted to $3.9 million and $3.8 million,
    respectively (Distribution Corporation established the reserve
    at September 30, 2005 by transferring $3.8 million
    from the CMR discussed above). Various other regulatory
    liabilities have also been created through the New York rate
    settlements and amounted to $9.6 million and
    $8.1 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

Tax
    Benefit on Medicare Part D Subsidy   

The Company has established a regulatory liability for the tax
    benefit it will receive under the Medicare Prescription Drug,
    Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act). The Act
    provides a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care
    benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least
    actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. In the
    Company s Utility and Pipeline and Storage segments, the
    rate payer funds the Company s post-retirement benefit
    plans. As such, any tax benefit received under the Act must be
    flowed-through to the rate payer. Refer to
    Note G   Retirement Plan and Other
    Post-Retirement Benefits for further discussion of the Act and
    its impact on the Company.

Deferred
    Insurance Proceeds   

The Company, in its Utility and Pipeline and Storage segments,
    received $7.5 million in environmental insurance settlement
    proceeds. Such proceeds have been deferred as a regulatory
    liability to be applied against any future environmental claims
    that may be incurred. The proceeds have been classified as a
    regulatory liability in recognition of the fact that rate payers
    funded the premiums on the former insurance policies.

79

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Note D  
    Income Taxes  

The components of federal, state and foreign income taxes
    included in the Consolidated Statements of Income are as follows:

The U.S. and foreign components of income (loss) before income
    taxes are as follows:

Total income taxes as reported differ from the amounts that were
    computed by applying the federal income tax rate to income
    before income taxes. The following is a reconciliation of this
    difference:

80

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The foreign tax differential amount shown above for 2006
    includes a $5.1 million deferred tax benefit relating to
    additional future tax deductions forecasted in Canada and the
    amount for 2005 includes tax effects relating to the disposition
    of a foreign subsidiary. The foreign tax rate reduction amount
    shown above for 2004 relates to the reduction of the statutory
    income tax rate in the Czech Republic. The miscellaneous amount
    shown above for 2006 includes a net reversal of
    $3.2 million relating to a tax contingency reserve.

Significant components of the Company s deferred tax
    liabilities and assets are as follows:

Regulatory liabilities representing the reduction of previously
    recorded deferred income taxes associated with rate-regulated
    activities that are expected to be refundable to customers
    amounted to $10.4 million and $11.0 million at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Also, regulatory
    assets representing future amounts collectible from customers,
    corresponding to additional deferred income taxes not previously
    recorded because of prior ratemaking practices, amounted to
    $79.5 million and $85.0 million at September 30,
    2006 and 2005, respectively.

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, signed into law on
    October 22, 2004, included a provision which provided a
    substantially reduced tax rate of 5.25% on certain dividends
    received from foreign affiliates. During 2005, the Company
    received a dividend of $72.8 million from a foreign
    affiliate and recorded a tax of $3.8 million on such
    dividend.

A capital loss carryover of $25.1 million exists at
    September 30, 2006, which expires if not utilized by
    September 30, 2008. Although realization is not assured,
    management determined that it is more likely than not that the
    entire deferred tax asset associated with this carryover will be
    realized during the carryover period. As such, the valuation
    allowance of $2.9 million was reversed during 2006.

81

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

A deferred tax asset of $9.0 million relating to Canadian
    operations exists at September 30, 2006. Although
    realization is not assured, management determined that it is
    more likely than not that future taxable income will be
    generated in Canada to fully utilize this asset, and as such, no
    valuation allowance was provided.

Note E  
    Capitalization and Short-Term Borrowings  

Summary
    of Changes in Common Stock Equity   

(1)  

Paid in Capital includes tax benefits of $6.5 million,
    $3.7 million and $1.5 million for September 30,
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, associated with the exercise
    of stock options. 

(2)  

As of October 1, 2005, Paid in Capital includes
    compensation costs associated with stock option and restricted
    stock awards, in accordance with SFAS 123R. The expense is
    included within Net Income Available For Common Stock, net of
    tax benefits. 

(3)  

The availability of consolidated earnings reinvested in the
    business for dividends payable in cash is limited under terms of
    the indentures covering long-term debt. At September 30,
    2006, $692.7 million of accumulated earnings was free of
    such limitations. 

82

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Common
    Stock   

The Company has various plans which allow shareholders,
    employees and others to purchase shares of the Company common
    stock. The National Fuel Gas Company Direct Stock Purchase and
    Dividend Reinvestment Plan allows shareholders to reinvest cash
    dividends and make cash investments in the Company s common
    stock and provides investors the opportunity to acquire shares
    of the Company common stock without the payment of any brokerage
    commissions in connection with such acquisitions. The 401(k)
    Plans allow employees the opportunity to invest in the Company
    common stock, in addition to a variety of other investment
    alternatives. Generally, at the discretion of the Company,
    shares purchased under these plans are either original issue
    shares purchased directly from the Company or shares purchased
    on the open market by an independent agent.

During 2006, the Company issued 2,292,639 original issue shares
    of common stock as a result of stock option exercises and 16,000
    original issue shares for restricted stock awards (non-vested
    stock as defined in SFAS 123R). Holders of stock options or
    restricted stock will often tender shares of common stock to the
    Company for payment of option exercise prices
     and/or 
    applicable withholding taxes. During 2006, 744,567 shares
    of common stock were tendered to the Company for such purposes.
    The Company considers all shares tendered as cancelled shares
    restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares, in
    accordance with New Jersey law.

The Company also has a Director Stock Program under which it
    issues shares of the Company common stock to its non-employee
    directors as partial consideration for their services as
    directors. Under this program, the Company issued 8,400 original
    issue shares of common stock to the non-employee directors of
    the Company during 2006.

On December 8, 2005, the Company s Board of Directors
    authorized the Company to implement a share repurchase program,
    whereby the Company may repurchase outstanding shares of common
    stock, up to an aggregate amount of 8 million shares in the
    open market or through privately negotiated transactions. During
    2006, the Company repurchased 2,526,550 shares under this
    program, funded with cash provided by operating activities. At
    September 30, 2006, the Company had made commitments to
    repurchase an additional 99,100 shares of common stock.
    These commitments were settled and recorded as a reduction of
    the Company s outstanding shares of common stock in October
    2006.

Shareholder
    Rights Plan   

In 1996, the Company s Board of Directors adopted a
    shareholder rights plan (Plan). Effective April 30, 1999,
    the Plan was amended and is now embodied in an Amended and
    Restated Rights Agreement, under which the Board of Directors
    made adjustments in connection with the
     two-for-one 
    stock split of September 7, 2001.

The holders of the Company s common stock have one right
    (Right) for each of their shares. Each Right, which will
    initially be evidenced by the Company s common stock
    certificates representing the outstanding shares of common
    stock, entitles the holder to purchase one-half of one share of
    common stock at a purchase price of $65.00 per share, being
    $32.50 per half share, subject to adjustment (Purchase
    Price).

The Rights become exercisable upon the occurrence of a
    distribution date. At any time following a distribution date,
    each holder of a Right may exercise its right to receive common
    stock (or, under certain circumstances, other property of the
    Company) having a value equal to two times the Purchase Price of
    the Right then in effect. However, the Rights are subject to
    redemption or exchange by the Company prior to their exercise as
    described below.

A distribution date would occur upon the earlier of (i) ten
    days after the public announcement that a person or group has
    acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership
    of the Company s common stock or other voting stock having
    10% or more of the total voting power of the Company s
    common stock and other

83

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

voting stock and (ii) ten days after the commencement or
    announcement by a person or group of an intention to make a
    tender or exchange offer that would result in that person
    acquiring, or obtaining the right to acquire, beneficial
    ownership of the Company s common stock or other voting
    stock having 10% or more of the total voting power of the
    Company s common stock and other voting stock.

In certain situations after a person or group has acquired
    beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the total voting power of
    the Company s stock as described above, each holder of a
    Right will have the right to exercise its Rights to receive
    common stock of the acquiring company having a value equal to
    two times the Purchase Price of the Right then in effect. These
    situations would arise if the Company is acquired in a merger or
    other business combination or if 50% or more of the
    Company s assets or earning power are sold or transferred.

At any time prior to the end of the business day on the tenth
    day following the announcement that a person or group has
    acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership
    of 10% or more of the total voting power of the Company, the
    Company may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a
    price of $0.005 per Right, payable in cash or stock. A
    decision to redeem the Rights requires the vote of 75% of the
    Company s full Board of Directors. Also, at any time
    following the announcement that a person or group has acquired,
    or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 10% or
    more of the total voting power of the Company, 75% of the
    Company s full Board of Directors may vote to exchange the
    Rights, in whole or in part, at an exchange rate of one share of
    common stock, or other property deemed to have the same value,
    per Right, subject to certain adjustments.

After a distribution date, Rights that are owned by an acquiring
    person will be null and void. Upon exercise of the Rights, the
    Company may need additional regulatory approvals to satisfy the
    requirements of the Rights Agreement. The Rights will expire on
    July 31, 2008, unless they are exchanged or redeemed
    earlier than that date.

The Rights have anti-takeover effects because they will cause
    substantial dilution of the common stock if a person attempts to
    acquire the Company on terms not approved by the Board of
    Directors.

Stock
    Option and Stock Award Plans   

The Company has various stock option and stock award plans which
    provide or provided for the issuance of one or more of the
    following to key employees: incentive stock options,
    nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, performance units
    or performance shares. Stock options under all plans have
    exercise prices equal to the average market price of Company
    common stock on the date of grant, and generally no option is
    exercisable less than one year or more than ten years after the
    date of each grant.

84

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Transactions involving option shares for all plans are
    summarized as follows:

(1)  

Including shares available for restricted stock grants. 

The following table summarizes information about options
    outstanding at September 30, 2006:

Restricted
    Share Awards   

Restricted stock is subject to restrictions on vesting and
    transferability. Restricted stock awards entitle the
    participants to full dividend and voting rights. The market
    value of restricted stock on the date of the award is recorded
    as compensation expense over the vesting period. Certificates
    for shares of restricted stock awarded under the Company s
    stock option and stock award plans are held by the Company
    during the periods in which the restrictions on vesting are
    effective.

85

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Transactions involving option shares for all plans are
    summarized as follows:

Vesting restrictions for the outstanding shares of non-vested
    restricted stock at September 30, 2006 will lapse as
    follows: 2007   25,000 shares; 2008  
    2,500 shares; 2009   4,500 shares;
    2010   5,828 shares; and 2011  
    4,500 shares.

Redeemable
    Preferred Stock   

As of September 30, 2006, there were 10,000,000 shares
    of $1 par value Preferred Stock authorized but unissued.

Long-Term
    Debt   

The outstanding long-term debt is as follows:

(1)  

These medium-term notes and notes are unsecured. 

(2)  

At September 30, 2006 and 2005, $96,665,000 and
    $97,222,000, respectively, of these notes were callable at par
    at any time after September 15, 2006. The change in the
    amount outstanding from year to year is attributable to the
    estates of individual note holders exercising put options due to
    the death of an individual note holder. 

(3)  

These notes constitute  project financing  and are
    secured by the various project documentation and natural gas
    transportation contracts related to the Empire State Pipeline.
    The interest rate on these notes is a variable rate based on
    LIBOR. It is the Company s intention to pay off these notes
    within one year. As such, the notes have been classified as
    current. 

86

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

As of September 30, 2006, the aggregate principal amounts
    of long-term debt maturing during the next five years and
    thereafter are as follows: $22.9 million in 2007,
    $200.0 million in 2008, $100.0 million in 2009, zero
    in 2010, $200.0 million in 2011, and $595.7 million
    thereafter.

Short-Term
    Borrowings   

The Company historically has obtained short-term funds either
    through bank loans or the issuance of commercial paper. As for
    the former, the Company maintains a number of individual
    (bi-lateral) uncommitted or discretionary lines of credit with
    certain financial institutions for general corporate purposes.
    Borrowings under these lines of credit are made at competitive
    market rates. These credit lines, which aggregate to
    $445.0 million, are revocable at the option of the
    financial institutions and are reviewed on an annual basis. The
    Company anticipates that these lines of credit will continue to
    be renewed, or replaced by similar lines. The total amount
    available to be issued under the Company s commercial paper
    program is $300.0 million. The commercial paper program is
    backed by a syndicated committed credit facility totaling
    $300.0 million, which is committed to the Company through
    September 30, 2010.

At September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, the
    Company had no outstanding short-term notes payable to banks or
    commercial paper.

Debt
    Restrictions   

Under the Company s committed credit facility, the Company
    has agreed that its debt to capitalization ratio will not exceed
    .65 at the last day of any fiscal quarter from
    September 30, 2005 through September 30, 2010. At
    September 30, 2006, the Company s debt to
    capitalization ratio (as calculated under the facility) was .44.
    The constraints specified in the committed credit facility would
    permit an additional $1.56 billion in short-term
     and/or 
    long-term debt to be outstanding (further limited by the
    indenture covenants discussed below) before the Company s
    debt to capitalization ratio would exceed .65. If a downgrade in
    any of the Company s credit ratings were to occur, access
    to the commercial paper markets might not be possible. However,
    the Company expects that it could borrow under its uncommitted
    bank lines of credit or rely upon other liquidity sources,
    including cash provided by operations.

Under the Company s existing indenture covenants, at
    September 30, 2006, the Company would have been permitted
    to issue up to a maximum of $1.03 billion in additional
    long-term unsecured indebtedness at then current market interest
    rates in addition to being able to issue new indebtedness to
    replace maturing debt.

The Company s 1974 indenture pursuant to which
    $399.0 million (or 36%) of the Company s long-term
    debt (as of September 30, 2006) was issued contains a
    cross-default provision whereby the failure by the Company to
    perform certain obligations under other borrowing arrangements
    could trigger an obligation to repay the debt outstanding under
    the indenture. In particular, a repayment obligation could be
    triggered if the Company fails (i) to pay any scheduled
    principal or interest or any debt under any other indenture or
    agreement or (ii) to perform any other term in any other
    such indenture or agreement, and the effect of the failure
    causes, or would permit the holders of the debt to cause, the
    debt under such indenture or agreement to become due prior to
    its stated maturity, unless cured or waived.

The Company s $300.0 million committed credit facility
    also contains a cross-default provision whereby the failure by
    the Company or its significant subsidiaries to make payments
    under other borrowing arrangements, or the occurrence of certain
    events affecting those other borrowing arrangements, could
    trigger an obligation to repay any amounts outstanding under the
    committed credit facility. In particular, a repayment obligation
    could be triggered if (i) the Company or any of its
    significant subsidiaries fails to make a payment when due of any
    principal or interest on any other indebtedness aggregating
    $20.0 million or more or (ii) an event occurs that
    causes, or would permit the holders of any other indebtedness
    aggregating $20.0 million or

87

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

more to cause, such indebtedness to become due prior to its
    stated maturity. As of September 30, 2006, the Company had
    no debt outstanding under the committed credit facility.

Note F  
    Financial Instruments  

Fair
    Values   

The fair market value of the Company s long-term debt is
    estimated based on quoted market prices of similar issues having
    the same remaining maturities, redemption terms and credit
    ratings. Based on these criteria, the fair market value of
    long-term debt, including current portion, was as follows:

The fair value amounts are not intended to reflect principal
    amounts that the Company will ultimately be required to pay.

Temporary cash investments, notes payable to banks and
    commercial paper are stated at cost, which approximates their
    fair value due to the short-term maturities of those financial
    instruments. Investments in life insurance are stated at their
    cash surrender values as discussed below. Investments in an
    equity mutual fund and the stock of an insurance company
    (marketable equity securities), as discussed below, are stated
    at fair value based on quoted market prices.

Other
    Investments   

Other investments includes cash surrender values of insurance
    contracts and marketable equity securities. The cash surrender
    values of the insurance contracts amounted to $62.5 million
    and $59.6 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. The fair value of the equity mutual fund was
    $12.9 million and $9.8 million at September 30,
    2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively. The gross
    unrealized gain on this equity mutual fund was $1.0 million
    and $0.4 million at September 30, 2006 and
    September 30, 2005, respectively. During 2005, the Company
    sold all of its interest in one equity mutual fund for
    $8.5 million and reinvested the proceeds in another equity
    mutual fund. The Company recognized a gain of $0.7 million
    on the sale of the equity mutual fund. The fair value of the
    stock of an insurance company was $12.7 million and
    $10.5 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. The gross unrealized gain on this stock was
    $10.3 million and $8.1 million at September 30,
    2006 and 2005, respectively. The insurance contracts and
    marketable equity securities are primarily informal funding
    mechanisms for various benefit obligations the Company has to
    certain employees.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

The Company uses a variety of derivative financial instruments
    to manage a portion of the market risk associated with the
    fluctuations in the price of natural gas and crude oil. These
    instruments include price swap agreements, no cost collars,
    options and futures contracts.

Under the price swap agreements, the Company receives monthly
    payments from (or makes payments to) other parties based upon
    the difference between a fixed price and a variable price as
    specified by the agreement. The variable price is either a crude
    oil or natural gas price quoted on the NYMEX or a quoted natural
    gas price in  Inside FERC.  The majority of these
    derivative financial instruments are accounted for as cash flow
    hedges and are used to lock in a price for the anticipated sale
    of natural gas and crude oil production in the Exploration and
    Production segment and the All Other category. The Energy
    Marketing segment accounts for these derivative financial
    instruments as fair value hedges and uses them to hedge against
    falling prices, a risk to which they are

88

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

exposed on their fixed price gas purchase commitments. The
    Energy Marketing segment also uses these derivative financial
    instruments to hedge against rising prices, a risk to which they
    are exposed on their fixed price sales commitments. At
    September 30, 2006, the Company had natural gas price swap
    agreements covering a notional amount of 7.4 Bcf extending
    through 2009 at a weighted average fixed rate of $7.24 per
    Mcf. Of this amount, 1.1 Bcf is accounted for as fair value
    hedges at a weighted average fixed rate of $6.98 per Mcf.
    The remaining 6.3 Bcf are accounted for as cash flow hedges
    at a weighted average fixed rate of $7.29 per Mcf. At
    September 30, 2006, the Company would have had to pay a net
    $7.4 million to terminate the price swap agreements. The
    Company also had crude oil price swap agreements covering a
    notional amount of 900,000 bbls extending through 2008 at a
    weighted average fixed rate of $37.13 per bbl. At
    September 30, 2006, the Company would have had to pay a net
    $27.6 million to terminate the price swap agreements.

Under the no cost collars, the Company receives monthly payments
    from (or makes payments to) other parties when a variable price
    falls below an established floor price (the Company receives
    payment from the counterparty) or exceeds an established ceiling
    price (the Company pays the counterparty). The variable price is
    either a crude oil price quoted on the NYMEX or a quoted natural
    gas price in  Inside FERC.  These derivative financial
    instruments are accounted for as cash flow hedges and are used
    to lock in a price range for the anticipated sale of natural gas
    and crude oil production in the Exploration and Production
    segment. At September 30, 2006, the Company had no cost
    collars on natural gas covering a notional amount of
    7.1 Bcf extending through 2008 with a weighted average
    floor price of $8.26 per Mcf and a weighted average ceiling
    price of $17.25 per Mcf. At September 30, 2006, the
    Company would have received $10.4 million to terminate the
    no cost collars. At September 30, 2006, the Company had no
    cost collars on crude oil covering a notional amount of 180,000
    bbls extending through 2007 with a weighted average floor price
    of $70.00 per bbl and a weighted average ceiling price of
    $77.00 per bbl. At September 30, 2006, the Company
    would have received $0.9 million to terminate these no cost
    collars.

At September 30, 2006, the Company had long (purchased)
    futures contracts covering 14.5 Bcf of gas extending
    through 2012 at a weighted average contract price of
    $9.20 per Mcf. They are accounted for as fair value hedges
    and are used by the Company s Energy Marketing segment to
    hedge against rising prices, a risk to which this segment is
    exposed due to the fixed price gas sales commitments that it
    enters into with commercial and industrial customers. The
    Company would have had to pay $22.4 million to terminate
    these futures contracts at September 30, 2006.

At September 30, 2006, the Company had short (sold) futures
    contracts covering 7.5 Bcf of gas extending through 2009 at
    a weighted average contract price of $10.57 per Mcf. Of
    this amount, 4.7 Bcf is accounted for as cash flow hedges
    as these contracts relate to the anticipated sale of natural gas
    by the Energy Marketing segment. The remaining 2.8 Bcf is
    accounted for as fair value hedges. The Company would have
    received $17.5 million to terminate these futures contracts
    at September 30, 2006.

The Company may be exposed to credit risk on some of the
    derivative financial instruments discussed above. Credit risk
    relates to the risk of loss that the Company would incur as a
    result of nonperformance by counterparties pursuant to the terms
    of their contractual obligations. To mitigate such credit risk,
    management performs a credit check, and then on an ongoing basis
    monitors counterparty credit exposure. Management has obtained
    guarantees from the parent companies of the respective
    counterparties to its derivative financial instruments. At
    September 30, 2006, the Company used six counterparties for
    its over the counter derivative financial instruments. At
    September 30, 2006, no individual counterparty represented
    greater than 39% of total credit risk (measured as volumes
    hedged by an individual counterparty as a percentage of the
    Company s total volumes hedged). All of the counterparties
    (or the parent of the counterparty) were rated as investment
    grade entities at September 30, 2006.

The Company uses an interest rate collar to limit interest rate
    fluctuations on certain variable rate debt in the Pipeline and
    Storage segment. Under the interest rate collar the Company
    makes quarterly payments to (or receives payments from) another
    party when a variable rate falls below an established floor rate
    (the Company

89

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

pays the counterparty) or exceeds an established ceiling rate
    (the Company receives payment from the counterparty). Under the
    terms of the collar, which extends until 2009, the variable rate
    is based on LIBOR. The floor rate of the collar is 5.15% and the
    ceiling rate is 9.375%. At September 30, 2006 the notional
    amount on the collar was $25.7 million. The Company would
    have had to pay $0.1 million to terminate the interest rate
    collar at September 30, 2006.

Note G  
    Retirement Plan and Other Post-Retirement Benefits  

The Company has a tax-qualified, noncontributory,
    defined-benefit retirement plan (Retirement Plan) that covers
    approximately 77% of the domestic employees of the Company. The
    Company provides health care and life insurance benefits for
    substantially all domestic retired employees under a
    post-retirement benefit plan (Post-Retirement Plan).

The Company s policy is to fund the Retirement Plan with at
    least an amount necessary to satisfy the minimum funding
    requirements of applicable laws and regulations and not more
    than the maximum amount deductible for federal income tax
    purposes. The Company has established VEBA trusts for its
    Post-Retirement Plan. Contributions to the VEBA trusts are tax
    deductible, subject to limitations contained in the Internal
    Revenue Code and regulations and are made to fund
    employees  post-retirement health care and life insurance
    benefits, as well as benefits as they are paid to current
    retirees. In addition, the Company has established 401(h)
    accounts for its Post-Retirement Plan. They are separate
    accounts within the Retirement Plan used to pay retiree medical
    benefits for the associated participants in the Retirement Plan.
    Contributions are tax-deductible when made and investments
    accumulate tax-free. Retirement Plan and Post-Retirement Plan
    assets primarily consist of equity and fixed income investments
    or units in commingled funds or money market funds.

The expected returns on plan assets of the Retirement Plan and
    Post-Retirement Plan are applied to the market-related value of
    plan assets of the respective plans. The market-related values
    of the Retirement Plan and Post-Retirement Plan assets are equal
    to market value as of the measurement date.

Reconciliations of the Benefit Obligations, Plan Assets and
    Funded Status, as well as the components of Net Periodic Benefit
    Cost and the Weighted Average Assumptions of the Retirement Plan
    and Post-Retirement Plan are shown in the tables below. The date
    used to measure the Benefit Obligations, Plan Assets and Funded
    Status is June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

90

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

91

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The Net Periodic Benefit cost in the table above includes the
    effects of regulation. The Company recovers pension and
    post-retirement benefit costs in its Utility and Pipeline and
    Storage segments in accordance with the applicable regulatory
    commission authorizations. Certain of those commission
    authorizations established tracking mechanisms which allow the
    Company to record the difference between the amount of pension
    and post-retirement benefit costs recoverable in rates and the
    amounts of such costs as determined under SFAS 87 and
    SFAS 106 as either a regulatory asset or liability, as
    appropriate. Any activity under the tracking mechanisms
    (including the amortization of pension and post-retirement
    regulatory assets) is reflected in the Net Amortization and
    Deferral for Regulatory Purposes line item above.

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 87, the Company
    recorded an additional minimum pension liability at
    September 30, 2005 and 2004 representing the excess of the
    accumulated benefit obligation over the fair value of plan
    assets plus accrued amounts previously recorded. An intangible
    asset, as shown in the table above, offset the additional
    liability to the extent of previously Unrecognized Prior Service
    Cost. The amount in excess of Unrecognized Prior Service Cost
    was recorded net of the related tax benefit as accumulated other
    comprehensive loss. At September 30, 2006, the Company
    reversed the additional minimum pension liability, intangible
    asset and accumulated other comprehensive loss recorded in prior
    years since the fair value of the plan assets exceeded the
    accumulated benefit obligation at September 30, 2006. The
    pre-tax amounts of the change in accumulated other comprehensive
    (income) loss at September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are
    shown in the table above. The projected benefit obligation,
    accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of assets for the
    retirement plan were as follows:

The effect of the discount rate change for the Retirement Plan
    in 2006 was to decrease the projected benefit obligation of the
    Retirement Plan by $113.1 million. The effect of the
    discount rate change for the Retirement Plan in 2005 was to
    increase the projected benefit obligation by
    $113.0 million. The discount rate change for the Retirement
    Plan in 2004 caused the projected benefit obligation to decrease
    by $20.2 million.

The Company made cash contributions totaling $20.9 million
    to the Retirement Plan during the year ended September 30,
    2006. The Company expects that the annual contribution to the
    Retirement Plan in 2007 will be in the range of
    $15.0 million to $20.0 million. The following benefit
    payments, which reflect expected future service, are expected to
    be paid during the next five years and the five years
    thereafter: $45.2 million in 2007; $46.1 million in
    2008; $47.3 million in 2009; $48.7 million in 2010;
    $50.0 million in 2011; and $275.6 million in the five
    years thereafter.

92

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The Retirement Plan covers certain domestic employees hired
    before July 1, 2003. Employees hired after June 30,
    2003 are eligible for a Retirement Savings Account benefit
    provided under the Company s defined contribution
    Tax-Deferred Savings Plans. Costs associated with the Retirement
    Savings Account benefit have been $0.2 million through
    September 30, 2006 (with $0.1 million of costs
    occurring in fiscal 2006). Costs associated with the
    Company s contributions to the Tax-Deferred Savings Plans
    were $4.1 million, $4.2 million, and $4.2 million
    for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively.

In addition to the Retirement Plan discussed above, the Company
    also has a Non Qualified benefit plan that covers a group of
    management employees designated by the Chief Executive Officer
    of the Company. This plan provides for defined benefit payments
    upon retirement of the management employee, or to the spouse
    upon death of the management employee. The net periodic benefit
    cost associated with this plan was $5.4 million,
    $4.3 million and $13.7 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. The accumulated benefit obligation for this plan
    was $26.5 million and $25.2 million at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The projected
    benefit obligation for the plan was $44.5 million and
    $47.6 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. The actuarial valuations for this plan were
    determined based on a discount rate of 6.25%, 5.0% and 6.25% as
    of September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively; a rate
    of compensation increase of 10.0% as of September 30, 2006,
    2005 and 2004; and an expected long-term rate of return on plan
    assets of 8.25% at September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004.

In January 2004, a participant of the Non Qualified benefit plan
    received a $23 million lump sum payment under a provision
    of an agreement previously entered into between the Company and
    the participant. Under GAAP, this payment was considered a
    partial settlement of the projected benefit obligation of the
    plan. Accordingly, GAAP required that a pro rata portion of this
    plan s unrecognized actuarial loses resulting from
    experience different from that assumed and from changes in
    assumption be currently recognized. Therefore, $9.9 million
    before tax ($6.4 million, after tax) was recognized as a
    settlement expense (included in Operation and Maintenance
    Expense) on the income statement.

The effect of the discount rate change in 2006 was to decrease
    the other post-retirement benefit obligation by
    $77.5 million. Effective July 1, 2006, the Medicare
    Part B reimbursement trend, prescription drug trend and
    medical trend assumptions were changed. The effect of these
    assumption changes was to decrease the other post-retirement
    benefit obligation by $1.7 million. A change in the
    disability assumption decreased the other post-retirement
    benefit obligation by $1.4 million. Other actuarial
    experience decreased the other post-retirement benefit
    obligation in 2006 by $34.4 million.

The effect of the discount rate change in 2005 was to increase
    the other post-retirement benefit obligation by
    $78.2 million. Effective July 1, 2005, the Medicare
    Part B reimbursement trend, prescription drug trend and
    medical trend assumptions were changed. The effect of these
    assumption changes was to increase the other post-retirement
    benefit obligation by $21.7 million. Also effective
    July 1, 2005, the percent of active female participants who
    are assumed to be married at retirement was changed. The effect
    of this assumption change was to decrease the other
    post-retirement benefit obligation by $6.9 million. Other
    actuarial experience increased the other post-retirement benefit
    obligation in 2005 by $17.9 million.

On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug,
    Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed
    into law. This Act introduces a prescription drug benefit under
    Medicare (Medicare Part D), as well as a federal subsidy to
    sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a
    benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare
    Part D. In accordance with FASB Staff Position
     FAS 106-2, 
     Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
    Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
    2003 , since the Company is assumed to continue to provide
    a prescription drug benefit to retirees in the point of service
    and indemnity plans that is at least actuarially equivalent to
    Medicare Part D, the impact of the Act was reflected as of
    December 8, 2003. The discount rate was changed from 6.0%
    to 6.25% per annum as of the remeasurement date, which
    resulted in a decrease in the benefit obligation of
    $15.9 million in 2004. The other post-retirement benefit
    obligation decreased by $42.9 million and the Net Periodic
    Post-Retirement Benefit Cost

93

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

decreased by $4.2 million as a result of the Act for 2004.
    Effective July 1, 2004, the Medicare B Reimbursement trend
    assumption was changed. The effect of this change was to
    decrease the other post-retirement benefit obligation by
    $3.5 million for 2004.

The estimated gross benefit payments and gross amount of subsidy
    receipts are as follows:

The annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered
    medical care benefits for both Pre and Post age 65
    participants was assumed to be 10.0% for 2004. In 2005, the
    Company began making separate estimates of the annual rate of
    increase in the per capita cost of covered medical care benefits
    for Pre and Post age 65 participants. The rate of increase
    for Pre age 65 participants was assumed to be 10% while the
    rate of increase for Post age 65 participants was assumed
    to be 7.5%. In 2006, the rate of increase for Pre age 65
    participants was 9% and was assumed to gradually decline to 5.0%
    by the year 2014. The rate of increase for the Post age 65
    participants was 7.0% and was assumed to gradually decline to
    5.0% by the year 2014. The annual rate of increase in the per
    capita cost of covered prescription drug benefits was assumed to
    be 12.0% for 2004, 12.5% for 2005, 11.0% for 2006, and gradually
    decline to 5.0% by the year 2014 and remain level thereafter.
    The annual rate of increase in the per capita Medicare
    Part B Reimbursement was assumed to be 9.25% for 2004, 6.0%
    for 2005, and 5.25% for 2006. The annual rate of increase for
    the Medicare Part B Reimbursement is expected to fluctuate
    between 0% and 5.0% over the next 10 years and reach 5.0%
    by 2016.

The health care cost trend rate assumptions used to calculate
    the per capita cost of covered medical care benefits have a
    significant effect on the amounts reported. If the health care
    cost trend rates were increased by 1% in each year, the Other
    Post-Retirement Benefit Obligation as of October 1, 2006
    would be increased by $57.3 million. This 1% change would
    also have increased the aggregate of the service and interest
    cost components of net periodic post-retirement benefit cost for
    2006 by $6.1 million. If the health care cost trend rates
    were decreased by 1% in each year, the Other Post-Retirement
    Benefit Obligation as of October 1, 2006 would be decreased
    by $47.5 million. This 1% change would also have decreased
    the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of net
    periodic post-retirement benefit cost for 2006 by
    $4.9 million.

The Company made cash contributions including payments made
    directly to participants totaling $39.3 million to the
    Post-Retirement Plan during the year ended September 30,
    2006. The Company expects that the annual contribution to the
    Post-Retirement Plan in 2006 will be in the range of
    $35.0 million to $45.0 million.

The Company s Retirement Plan weighted average asset
    allocations at September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 by asset
    category are as follows:

94

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The Company s Post-Retirement Plan weighted average asset
    allocations at September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 by asset
    category are as follows:

The Company s assumption regarding the expected long-term
    rate of return on plan assets is 8.25%. The return assumption
    reflects the anticipated long-term rate of return on the
    plan s current and future assets. The Company utilizes
    historical investment data, projected capital market conditions,
    and the plan s target asset class and investment manager
    allocations to set the assumption regarding the expected return
    on plan assets.

The long-term investment objective of the Retirement Plan trust
    and the Post-Retirement Plan VEBA trusts is to achieve the
    target total return in accordance with the Company s risk
    tolerance. Assets are diversified utilizing a mix of equities,
    fixed income and other securities (including real estate). Risk
    tolerance is established through consideration of plan
    liabilities, plan funded status and corporate financial
    condition.

Investment managers are retained to manage separate pools of
    assets. Comparative market and peer group performance of
    individual managers and the total fund are monitored on a
    regular basis, and reviewed by the Company s Retirement
    Committee on at least a quarterly basis.

The discount rate which is used to present value the future
    benefit payment obligations of the Retirement Plan, the
    Non-Qualified benefit plan, and the Post-Retirement Plan is
    6.25% as of September 30, 2006. This rate is equal to the
    Moody s Aa Long-Term Corporate Bond index, rounded to the
    nearest 25 basis points. The duration of the securities
    underlying that index (approximately 13 years) reasonably
    matches the expected timing of anticipated future benefit
    payments (approximately 12 years).

Note H  
    Commitments and Contingencies  

Environmental
    Matters   

The Company is subject to various federal, state and local laws
    and regulations relating to the protection of the environment.
    The Company has established procedures for the ongoing
    evaluation of its operations, to identify potential
    environmental exposures and to comply with regulatory policies
    and procedures.

It is the Company s policy to accrue estimated
    environmental
     clean-up 
    costs (investigation and remediation) when such amounts can
    reasonably be estimated and it is probable that the Company will
    be required to incur such costs. The Company has estimated its
    remaining
     clean-up 
    costs related to the sites described below in
    paragraphs (i) and (ii) will be
    $3.8 million. This liability has been recorded on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheet at September 30, 2006. The
    Company expects to recover its environmental
     clean-up 
    costs from a combination of rate recovery and insurance proceeds
    (refer to Note C   Regulatory Matters for further
    discussion of the insurance proceeds). Other than as discussed
    below, the Company is currently not aware of any material
    exposure to environmental liabilities. However, adverse changes
    in environmental regulations, new information or other factors
    could impact the Company.

(i) Former
    Manufactured Gas Plant Sites  

The Company has incurred or is incurring
     clean-up 
    costs at five former manufactured gas plant sites in New York
    and Pennsylvania. The Company continues to be responsible for
    future ongoing maintenance at one

95

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

site. At a second site in New York, the Company settled its
    environmental obligations related to this site during 2005. No
    future liability is anticipated at this site. At a third site,
    remediation is complete and long-term maintenance and monitoring
    activities are ongoing. A fourth site, which allegedly contains,
    among other things, manufactured gas plant waste, is in the
    investigation stage. Remediation and post-remedial construction
    care and maintenance have been completed at a fifth site, and
    the Company has been released from any future liability related
    to this site by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
    Protection.

(ii) Third
    Party Waste Disposal Sites  

The Company has been identified by the Department of
    Environmental Conservation (DEC) or the United States
    Environmental Protection Agency as one of a number of companies
    considered to be PRPs with respect to two waste disposal sites
    in New York which were operated by unrelated third parties. The
    PRPs are alleged to have contributed to the materials that may
    have been collected at such waste disposal sites by the site
    operators. The ultimate cost to the Company with respect to the
    remediation of these sites will depend on such factors as the
    remediation plan selected, the extent of site contamination, the
    number of additional PRPs at each site and the portion of
    responsibility, if any, attributed to the Company. The
    remediation has been completed at one site, with costs subject
    to an ongoing final reallocation process among five PRPs. At a
    second waste disposal site, settlement was reached in the amount
    of $9.3 million to be allocated among five PRPs. The
    allocation process is currently being determined. Further
    negotiations remain in process for additional settlements
    related to this site.

(iii) Other  

The Company received, in 1998 and again in October 1999, notice
    that the DEC believes the Company is responsible for
    contamination discovered at an additional former manufactured
    gas plant site in New York. The Company, however, has not been
    named as a PRP. The Company responded to these notices that
    other companies operated that site before its predecessor did,
    that liability could be imposed upon it only if hazardous
    substances were disposed at the site during a period when the
    site was operated by its predecessor, and that it was unaware of
    any such disposal. The Company has not incurred any
     clean-up 
    costs at this site nor has it been able to reasonably estimate
    the probability or extent of potential liability.

Other   

The Company, in its Utility segment, Energy Marketing segment,
    and All Other category, has entered into contractual commitments
    in the ordinary course of business, including commitments to
    purchase gas, transportation, and storage service to meet
    customer gas supply needs. Substantially all of these contracts
    expire within the next five years. The future gas purchase,
    transportation and storage contract commitments during the next
    five years and thereafter are as follows: $793.5 million in
    2007, $195.2 million in 2008, $48.9 million in 2009,
    $17.6 million in 2010, $9.9 million in 2011, and
    $68.8 million thereafter. In the Utility segment, these
    costs are subject to state commission review, and are being
    recovered in customer rates. Management believes that, to the
    extent any stranded pipeline costs are generated by the
    unbundling of services in the Utility segment s service
    territory, such costs will be recoverable from customers.

The Company has entered into leases for the use of buildings,
    vehicles, construction tools, meters, computer equipment and
    other items. These leases are accounted for as operating leases.
    The future lease commitments during the next five years and
    thereafter are as follows: $8.1 million in 2007,
    $7.2 million in 2008, $6.0 million in 2009,
    $4.3 million in 2010, $2.7 million in 2011, and
    $15.7 million thereafter.

The Company is involved in litigation arising in the normal
    course of business. In addition to the regulatory matters
    discussed in Note C   Regulatory Matters, the
    Company is involved in other regulatory matters arising in the
    normal course of business that involve rate base, cost of
    service and purchased gas cost issues. While these normal-course
    matters could have a material effect on earnings and cash flows
    in the period in which they are

96

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

resolved, they are not expected to change materially the
    Company s present liquidity position, nor to have a
    material adverse effect on the financial condition of the
    Company.

Note I  
    Discontinued Operations  

On July 18, 2005, the Company completed the sale of its
    entire 85.16% interest in U.E., a district heating and electric
    generation business in the Bohemia region of the Czech Republic,
    to Czech Energy Holdings, a.s. for sales proceeds of
    approximately $116.3 million. The sale resulted in the
    recognition of a gain of approximately $25.8 million, net
    of tax, at September 30, 2005. Market conditions during
    2005, including the increasing value of the Czech currency as
    compared to the U.S. dollar, caused the value of the assets
    of U.E. to increase, providing an opportunity to sell the U.E.
    operations at a profit for the Company. As a result of the
    decision to sell its majority interest in U.E., the Company
    began presenting the Czech Republic operations, which are
    primarily comprised of U.E., as discontinued operations in June
    2005. U.E. was the major component of the Company s
    International segment. With this change in presentation, the
    Company discontinued all reporting for an International segment.

The following is selected financial information of the
    discontinued operations for U.E.:

Note J  
    Business Segment Information  

The Company has five reportable segments: Utility, Pipeline and
    Storage, Exploration and Production, Energy Marketing, and
    Timber. The breakdown of the Company s operations into
    reportable segments is based upon a combination of factors
    including differences in products and services, regulatory
    environment and geographic factors.

The Utility segment operations are regulated by the NYPSC and
    the PaPUC and are carried out by Distribution Corporation.
    Distribution Corporation sells natural gas to retail customers
    and provides natural gas transportation services in western New
    York and northwestern Pennsylvania.

The Pipeline and Storage segment operations are regulated. The
    FERC regulates the operations of Supply Corporation and the
    NYPSC regulates the operations of Empire. Supply Corporation
    transports and stores natural gas for utilities (including
    Distribution Corporation), natural gas marketers (including NFR)
    and pipeline companies in the northeastern United States
    markets. Empire transports natural gas from the United
    States/Canadian border near Buffalo, New York into Central New
    York just north of Syracuse, New York. Empire

97

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

transports gas to major industrial companies, utilities
    (including Distribution Corporation) and power producers.

The Exploration and Production segment, through Seneca, is
    engaged in exploration for, and development and purchase of,
    natural gas and oil reserves in California, in the Appalachian
    region of the United States, in the Gulf Coast region of Texas,
    Louisiana and Alabama and in the provinces of Alberta,
    Saskatchewan and British Columbia in Canada. Seneca s
    production is, for the most part, sold to purchasers located in
    the vicinity of its wells. On September 30, 2003, Seneca
    sold its southeast Saskatchewan oil and gas properties for a
    loss of $58.5 million. Proved reserves associated with the
    properties sold were 19.4 million barrels of oil and
    0.3 Bcf of natural gas. When the transaction closed, the
    initial proceeds received were subject to an adjustment based on
    working capital and the resolution of certain income tax
    matters. In 2004, those items were resolved with the buyer and,
    as a result, the Company received an additional
    $4.6 million of sales proceeds, as shown in the table below
    for the year ended September 30, 2004.

The Energy Marketing segment is comprised of NFR s
    operations. NFR markets natural gas to industrial, commercial,
    public authority and residential end-users in western and
    central New York and northwestern Pennsylvania, offering
    competitively priced energy and energy management services for
    its customers.

The Timber segment s operations are carried out by the
    Northeast division of Seneca and by Highland. This segment has
    timber holdings (primarily high quality hardwoods) in the
    northeastern United States and sawmills and kilns in
    Pennsylvania. On August 1, 2003, the Company sold
    approximately 70,000 acres of timber property in
    Pennsylvania and New York. A gain of $168.8 million was
    recognized on the sale of this timber property. During 2004, the
    Company received final timber cruise information of the
    properties it sold and, based on that information, determined
    that property records pertaining to $1.3 million of timber
    property were not properly shown as having been transferred to
    the purchaser. As a result, the Company removed those assets
    from its property records and adjusted the previously recognized
    gain downward by recognizing a pretax loss of $1.3 million,
    as shown in the table for the year ended September 30, 2004.

The data presented in the tables below reflect the reportable
    segments and reconciliations to consolidated amounts. The
    accounting policies of the segments are the same as those
    described in Note A   Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies. Sales of products or services between
    segments are billed at regulated rates or at market rates, as
    applicable. The Company evaluates segment performance based on
    income before discontinued operations, extraordinary items and
    cumulative effects of changes in accounting (when applicable).
    When these items are not applicable, the Company evaluates
    performance based on net income.

As disclosed in Note I   Discontinued Operations,
    the Company completed the sale of its majority interest in U.E.,
    a district heating and electric generation business in the Czech
    Republic, on July 18, 2005. As a result of the sale of its
    majority interest in U.E., the Company discontinued all
    reporting for an International segment and previous period
    segment information has been restated to reflect this change.
    All Czech Republic operations have been reported as discontinued
    operations. Any remaining international activity has been
    included in corporate operations.

98

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

99

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(1)  

Amount represents the impairment in the value of the
    Company s 50% investment in ESNE, a partnership that owns
    an 80-megawatt, combined cycle, natural gas-fired power plant in
    the town of North East, Pennsylvania. 

(1)  

Amount includes $268,119 of assets of the former International
    segment, the majority of which has been discontinued with the
    sale of U.E. (See Note I   Discontinued
    Operations). 

100

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(1)  

Revenue is based upon the country in which the sale originates. 

Note K  
    Investments in Unconsolidated Subsidiaries  

The Company s unconsolidated subsidiaries consist of equity
    method investments in Seneca Energy, Model City and ESNE. The
    Company has 50% interests in each of these entities. Seneca
    Energy and Model City generate and sell electricity using
    methane gas obtained from landfills owned by outside parties.
    ESNE generates electricity from an 80-megawatt, combined cycle,
    natural gas-fired power plant in North East, Pennsylvania. ESNE
    sells its electricity into the New York power grid.

In September 2005, the Company recorded an impairment of
    $4.2 million of its equity investment in ESNE due to a
    decline in the fair market value of ESNE. This impairment was
    recorded in accordance with APB 18.

A summary of the Company s investments in unconsolidated
    subsidiaries at September 30, 2006 and 2005 is as follows:

101

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Note L  
    Intangible Assets  

As a result of the Empire and Toro acquisitions, the Company
    acquired certain intangible assets during 2003. In the case of
    the Empire acquisition, the intangible assets represent the fair
    value of various long-term transportation contracts with
    Empire s customers. In the case of the Toro acquisition,
    the intangible assets represent the fair value of various
    long-term gas purchase contracts with the various landfills.
    These intangible assets are being amortized over the lives of
    the transportation and gas purchase contracts with no residual
    value at the end of the amortization period. The
    weighted-average amortization period for the gross carrying
    amount of the transportation contracts is 8 years. The
    weighted-average amortization period for the gross carrying
    amount of the gas purchase contracts is 20 years. Details
    of these intangible assets are as follows (in thousands):

The gross carrying amount of intangible assets subject to
    amortization at September 30, 2006 remained unchanged from
    September 30, 2005. The only activity with regard to
    intangible assets subject to amortization was amortization
    expense as shown on the table above. Amortization expense for
    the long-term transportation contracts is estimated to be
    $1.1 million annually for 2007 and 2008. Amortization
    expense is estimated to be $0.5 million in 2009 and
    $0.4 million in 2010 and 2011. Amortization expense for the
    long-term gas purchase contracts is estimated to be
    $1.6 million annually for 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011.

Note M  
    Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)  

In the opinion of management, the following quarterly
    information includes all adjustments necessary for a fair
    statement of the results of operations for such periods. Per
    common share amounts are calculated using the weighted average
    number of shares outstanding during each quarter. The total of
    all quarters may differ from the per common share amounts shown
    on the Consolidated Statements of Income. Those per common share
    amounts are based on the weighted average number of shares
    outstanding for the entire fiscal year. Because of the seasonal
    nature of the Company s heating business, there are
    substantial variations in operations reported on a quarterly
    basis.

102

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(1)  

Includes expense of $29.1 million related to the impairment
    of oil and gas producing properties. 

(2)  

Includes expense of $39.5 million related to the impairment
    of oil and gas producing properties and income of
    $6.1 million related to income tax adjustments. 

(3)  

Includes income of $5.1 million related to income tax
    adjustments. 

(4)  

Includes income of $2.6 million related to a regulatory
    adjustment. 

(5)  

Includes a $3.9 million gain associated with insurance
    proceeds received in prior years for which a contingency was
    resolved during the quarter, $3.3 million of expense
    related to certain derivative financial instruments that no
    longer qualified as effective hedges, $2.7 million of
    expense related to the impairment of an investment in a
    partnership, and $1.8 million of expense related to the
    impairment of a gas-powered turbine. 

(6)  

Includes a $25.8 million gain related to the sale of U.E.
    and income of $6.0 million due to the reversal of deferred
    income taxes related to U.E. 

(7)  

Includes $6.0 million of previously unrecorded deferred
    income tax expense related to U.E. 

(8)  

Includes a $2.6 million gain on a FERC approved sale of
    base gas. 

103

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Note N  
    Market for Common Stock and Related Shareholder Matters
    (unaudited)  

At September 30, 2006, there were 17,767 registered
    shareholders of Company common stock. The common stock is listed
    and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Information related
    to restrictions on the payment of dividends can be found in
    Note E   Capitalization and Short-Term
    Borrowings. The quarterly price ranges (based on intra-day
    prices) and quarterly dividends declared for the fiscal years
    ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, are shown below:

Note O  
    Supplementary Information for Oil and Gas Producing
    Activities  

The following supplementary information is presented in
    accordance with SFAS 69,  Disclosures about Oil and
    Gas Producing Activities,  and related SEC accounting
    rules. All monetary amounts are expressed in U.S. dollars.

Capitalized
    Costs Relating to Oil and Gas Producing Activities   

104

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Costs related to unproved properties are excluded from
    amortization as they represent unevaluated properties that
    require additional drilling to determine the existence of oil
    and gas reserves. Following is a summary of such costs excluded
    from amortization at September 30, 2006:

Costs
    Incurred in Oil and Gas Property Acquisition, Exploration and
    Development Activities   

For the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the
    Company spent $55.6 million, $19.2 million and
    $12.1 million, respectively, developing proved undeveloped
    reserves.

105

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Results
    of Operations for Producing Activities   

106

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(1)  

Exclusive of hedging gains and losses. See further discussion in
    Note F   Financial Instruments. 

(2)  

See discussion of impairment in Note A   Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies. 

Reserve
    Quantity Information (unaudited)   

The Company s proved oil and gas reserves are located in
    the United States and Canada. The estimated quantities of proved
    reserves disclosed in the table below are based upon estimates
    by qualified Company geologists and engineers and are audited by
    independent petroleum engineers. Such estimates are inherently
    imprecise and may be subject to substantial revisions as a
    result of numerous factors including, but not limited to,
    additional development activity, evolving production history and
    continual reassessment of the viability of production under
    varying economic conditions.

107

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

108

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Standardized
    Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved
    Oil and Gas Reserves (unaudited)  

The Company cautions that the following presentation of the
    standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is
    intended to be neither a measure of the fair market value of the
    Company s oil and gas properties, nor an estimate of the
    present value of actual future cash flows to be obtained as a
    result of their development and production. It is based upon
    subjective estimates of proved reserves only and attributes no
    value to categories of reserves other than proved reserves, such
    as probable or possible reserves, or to unproved acreage.
    Furthermore, it is based on year-end prices and costs adjusted
    only for existing contractual changes, and it assumes an
    arbitrary discount rate of 10%. Thus, it gives no effect to
    future price and cost changes certain to occur under widely
    fluctuating political and economic conditions.

109

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The standardized measure is intended instead to provide a means
    for comparing the value of the Company s proved reserves at
    a given time with those of other oil- and gas-producing
    companies than is provided by a simple comparison of raw proved
    reserve quantities.

110

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

111

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The principal sources of change in the standardized measure of
    discounted future net cash flows were as follows:

112

Table of Contents   

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Schedule II  
    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  

(1)  

Represents the discount on accounts receivable purchased in
    accordance with the Utility segment s 2005 New York rate
    settlement. 

(2)  

Represents amounts reclassified from regulatory asset and
    regulatory liability accounts under various rate settlements
    ($4.5 million). Also includes amounts removed with the sale
    of U.E. (-$2.02 million). 

(3)  

Amounts represent net accounts receivable written-off. 

113

Table of Contents   

Item 9      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None

Item 9A      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

The term  disclosure controls and procedures  is
    defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Exchange Act. These rules refer to the controls and
    other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that
    information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports
    that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded,
    processed, summarized and reported within required time periods.
    Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation,
    controls and procedures designed to ensure that information
    required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated to the
    company s management, including its principal executive and
    principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company s
    management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Principal
    Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the
    Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of the end
    of the period covered by this report. Based upon that
    evaluation, the Company s Chief Executive Officer and
    Principal Financial Officer concluded that the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
    September 30, 2006.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting   

The management of the Company is responsible for establishing
    and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
    reporting as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act. The Company s internal control over
    financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and preparation
    of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    GAAP. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.

The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 30, 2006. In making this assessment, management
    used the framework and criteria set forth by the Committee of
    Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
     Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework.   Based on this assessment, management
    concluded that the Company maintained effective internal control
    over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the independent registered public
    accounting firm that audited the Company s consolidated
    financial statements included in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    has issued a report on management s assessment of the
    effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of September 30, 2006. The report
    appears in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

There were no changes in the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended
    September 30, 2006 that have materially affected, or are
    reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B      

Other
    Information   

None

PART III  

Item 10      

Directors
    and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

The information required by this item concerning the directors
    of the Company is omitted pursuant to Instruction G of
     Form 10-K 
    since the Company s definitive Proxy Statement for its
    February 15, 2007 Annual

114

Table of Contents   

Meeting of Shareholders will be filed with the SEC not later
    than 120 days after September 30, 2006. The
    information concerning directors is set forth in the definitive
    Proxy Statement under the headings entitled  Nominees for
    Election as Directors for Three-Year Terms to Expire in
    2010,   Directors Whose Terms Expire in 2009, 
     Directors Whose Terms Expire in 2008,  and
     Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934  and is incorporated herein by
    reference. Information concerning the Company s executive
    officers can be found in Part I, Item 1, of this
    report.

The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
    that applies to the Company s directors, officers and
    employees and has posted such Code of Business Conduct and
    Ethics on the Company s website,
     www.nationalfuelgas.com , together with certain other
    corporate governance documents. Copies of the Company s
    Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, charters of important
    committees, and Corporate Governance Guidelines will be made
    available free of charge upon written request to Investor
    Relations, National Fuel Gas Company, 6363 Main Street,
    Williamsville, New York 14221.

The Company intends to satisfy the disclosure requirement under
    Item 5.05 of
     Form 8-K 
    regarding an amendment to, or a waiver from, a provision of its
    code of ethics that applies to the Company s principal
    executive officer, principal financial officer, principal
    accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar
    functions, and that relates to any element of the code of ethics
    definition enumerated in paragraph (b) of
    Item 406 of the SEC s
     Regulation S-K, 
    by posting such information on its website,
     www.nationalfuelgas.com.   

Item 11      

Executive
    Compensation   

The information required by this item is omitted pursuant to
    Instruction G of
     Form 10-K 
    since the Company s definitive Proxy Statement for its
    February 15, 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be
    filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after
    September 30, 2006. The information concerning executive
    compensation is set forth in the definitive Proxy Statement
    under the headings  Executive Compensation  and
     Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
    Participation  and, excepting the  Report of the
    Compensation Committee  and the  Corporate Performance
    Graph,  is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

The information required by this item is omitted pursuant to
    Instruction G of
     Form 10-K 
    since the Company s definitive Proxy Statement for its
    February 15, 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be
    filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after
    September 30, 2006. The equity compensation plan
    information is set forth in the definitive Proxy Statement under
    the heading  Equity Compensation Plan Information  and
    is incorporated herein by reference.

Security
    Ownership and Changes in Control  

(a)     

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners   

The information required by this item is omitted pursuant to
    Instruction G of
     Form 10-K 
    since the Company s definitive Proxy Statement for its
    February 15, 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be
    filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after
    September 30, 2006. The information concerning security
    ownership of certain beneficial owners is set forth in the
    definitive Proxy Statement under the heading  Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and
    is incorporated herein by reference.

(b)     

Security
    Ownership of Management   

The information required by this item is omitted pursuant to
    Instruction G of
     Form 10-K 
    since the Company s definitive Proxy Statement for its
    February 15, 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be
    filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after
    September 30, 2006. The information concerning security
    ownership of management is set forth in the definitive Proxy
    Statement under the heading  Security Ownership of Certain
    Beneficial Owners and Management  and is incorporated
    herein by reference.

115

Table of Contents   

(c)     

Changes
    in Control   

None

Item 13      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions   

The information required by this item is omitted pursuant to
    Instruction G of
     Form 10-K 
    since the Company s definitive Proxy Statement for its
    February 15, 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be
    filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after
    September 30, 2006. The information regarding certain
    relationships and related transactions is set forth in the
    definitive Proxy Statement under the heading  Compensation
    Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

The information required by this item is omitted pursuant to
    Instruction G of
     Form 10-K 
    since the Company s definitive Proxy Statement for its
    February 15, 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be
    filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after
    September 30, 2006. The information concerning principal
    accountant fees and services is set forth in the definitive
    Proxy Statement under the heading  Audit Fees  and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV  

Item 15      

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a)1.  Financial
    Statements  

Financial statements filed as part of this report are listed in
    the index included in Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K, 
    and reference is made thereto.

(a)2.  Financial
    Statement Schedules  

Financial statement schedules filed as part of this report are
    listed in the index included in Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K, 
    and reference is made thereto.

(a)3.  Exhibits  

116

Table of Contents   

117

Table of Contents   

118

Table of Contents   

119

Table of Contents   

120

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Description of 

Number 

Exhibits 

31

.1

Written statements of Chief
    Executive Officer pursuant to
     Rule 13a-15(e)/15d-15(e) 
    of the Exchange Act.

31

.2

Written statements of Principal
    Financial Officer pursuant to
     Rule 13a-15(e)/15d-15(e) 
    of the Exchange Act.

32  

Certifications pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

99

Additional Exhibits:

99

.1

Report of Ralph E. Davis
    Associates, Inc. regarding Seneca Resources Corporation

99

.2

Report of Ralph E. Davis
    Associates, Inc. regarding Seneca Energy Canada, Inc.

99

.3

Company Maps

The Company agrees to furnish to
    the SEC upon request the following instruments with respect to
    long-term debt that the Company has not filed as an exhibit
    pursuant to the exemption provided by
    Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A):

Secured Credit Agreement, dated as
    of June 5, 1997, among the Empire State Pipeline, as
    borrower, Empire State Pipeline, Inc., the Lenders party
    thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank (f/k/a The Chase Manhattan Bank),
    as administrative agent, and Chase Securities, as arranger.

First Amendment to Secured Credit
    Agreement, dated as of May 28, 2002, among Empire State
    Pipeline, as borrower, Empire State Pipeline, Inc., St. Clair
    Pipeline Company, Inc., the Lenders party to the Secured Credit
    Agreement, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as administrative agent.

Second Amendment to Secured Credit
    Agreement, dated as of February 6, 2003, among Empire State
    Pipeline, as borrower, Empire State Pipeline, Inc., St. Clair
    Pipeline Company, Inc., the Lenders party to the Secured Credit
    Agreement, as amended, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as
    administrative agent.

Incorporated herein by reference
    as indicated.

All other exhibits are omitted
    because they are not applicable or the required information is
    shown elsewhere in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

In accordance with
    Item 601(b) (32) (ii) of
     Regulation S-K 
    and SEC Release Nos.
     33-8238  and
    34-47986, Final Rule: Management s Reports on Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting and Certification of Disclosure
    in Exchange Act Periodic Reports, the material contained in
    Exhibit 32 is   furnished  and not deemed
      filed  with the SEC and is not to be
    incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant
    under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, whether
    made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any
    general incorporation language contained in such filing, except
    to the extent that the Registrant specifically incorporates it
    by reference.

121

Table of Contents   

Signatures  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

National Fuel Gas Company  
    (Registrant) 

By 

/s/  P.
    C. Ackerman

P. C. Ackerman

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

Date: December 7, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Signature 

Title 

/s/  P.
    C.
    Ackerman
  
      P.
    C. Ackerman 

Chairman of the Board,  Chief
    Executive Officer and Director

Date: December 7, 2006

/s/  R.
    T.
    Brady
  
      R.
    T. Brady 

Director

Date: December 7, 2006

/s/  R.
    D.
    Cash
  
      R.
    D. Cash 

Director

Date: December 7, 2006

/s/  R.
    E.
    Kidder
  
      R.
    E. Kidder 

Director

Date: December 7, 2006

/s/  C.
    G.
    Matthews
  
      C.
    G. Matthews 

Director

Date: December 7 2006

/s/  G.
    L.
    Mazanec
  
      G.
    L. Mazanec 

Director

Date: December 7, 2006

/s/  R.
    G.
    Reiten
  
      R.
    G. Reiten 

Director

Date: December 7, 2006

/s/  J.
    F.
    Riordan
  
      J.
    F. Riordan 

Director

Date: December 7, 2006

/s/  R.
    J.
    Tanski
  
      R.
    J. Tanski 

Treasurer and Principal Financial
    Officer

Date: December 7, 2006

/s/  K.
    M.
    Camiolo
  
      K.
    M. Camiolo 

Controller and Principal
    Accounting Officer

Date: December 7, 2006

122

<EX-10.1>
 2
 l22614aexv10w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.1

exv10w1 

Exhibit 10.1

AGREEMENT 

BACKGROUND: 

1. National Fuel Gas Company ( NFG ) is a party to a Split Dollar Insurance and Death Benefit
Agreement originally entered into with Philip C. Ackerman on April 1, 1991.

2. The agreement dated April 1, 1991 was amended by a subsequent agreement dated January 8,
1996, and amended and restated in its entirety by an Agreement dated September 17, 1997 (the
 Agreement ).

3. The Agreement recognized that two policies insuring the life of Philip C. Ackerman issued
by Guardian Life Insurance Company of America had been assigned to David P. Ackerman, as Trustee of
the Philip C. Ackerman Insurance Trust under the irrevocable Agreement dated February 26, 1997 (the
 Trust ).

4. The Agreement was and is referred to herein as the  Amended Agreement. 

5. Because of subsequently enacted law (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), NFG was precluded from
continuing to pay the premiums on Guardian policy # 3646630. David P. Ackerman, as Trustee, was
unable to pay these premiums out of trust assets and therefore assigned all of the Trust s rights
in this policy to NFG, effective April 27, 2006, in partial prepayment of the amount due to NFG on
the termination of the Amended Agreement.

6. In recognition of the importance to NFG of Philip C. Ackerman s continuing service as an
executive officer, NFG wishes to offer a supplementary benefit to him on the terms set forth in
this agreement.

NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of his agreement to continue service as an executive officer,
National Fuel Gas Company hereby promises to pay Philip C. Ackerman or his Beneficiary (as defined
below) as follows:

a) If Philip C. Ackerman is surviving on February 14, 2014 (his 70 th  birthday), NFG
will pay him the sum of $968,905. This payment shall be made 10 calendar days following that date.

b) If Philip C. Ackerman dies before February 14, 2014, NFG will pay to his Beneficiary an
amount equal to (1) the sum of 24 times the base monthly salary payable by NFG to him in the month
prior to his death (or if he is retired, in the month prior to the commencement of his retirement)
and two times the most recent award, if any, paid to him under any of NFG s lump sum payment
programs including the Annual At Risk Compensation Incentive Program (AARCIP), but specifically not
including the NFG Performance Incentive Program established on June 3, 2005, (2) reduced by the
amount received by the Trust pursuant to the Amended Agreement. This payment shall be made 10
calendar days following his death.

As used in this agreement, the term  Beneficiary  means one or more individuals or legal
entities designated by Philip C. Ackerman in a written notice delivered to the Manager of Benefit
Services of NFG or a person in a similar position within the Human Resources Department; or if no
such notice is delivered, the term  Beneficiary  means Philip C. Ackerman s estate.

Notwithstanding anything in this agreement, if NFG terminates the Amended Agreement under
paragraph B of Section IV (dealing with termination for cause or competition with NFG), NFG may
also terminate this agreement without any obligation to make any payment hereunder.

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY   

Date signed:  September 24 , 2006

By:

/s/ G. L. Mazanec 

George L. Mazanec, Director and 
Chairman of the Compensation Committee 

</EX-10.1>

<EX-12>
 3
 l22614aexv12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

exv12 

EXHIBIT 12 

COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF 
EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
UNAUDITED 

(1) 
       
     Investment Tax Credit is included in Other Income 

(2) 
       
     Rentals shown above represent the portion of all rentals (other than delay rentals) deemed representative of the interest factor. 

(3) 
       
     Fiscal 2002 and 2005 include the Impairment of Investment in Partnership of $15,167 and $4,158, respectively. 

</EX-12>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 l22614aexv23w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1 

CONSENT OF ENGINEER 

We hereby consent to the reproduction of our audit report for Seneca Resources
Corporation dated October 19, 2006, and to the reference to our estimate dated September 30, 2006,
appearing in this National Fuel Gas Company Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in (i) the Registration Statement (Form S-8,
No. 2-94539), as amended, relating to the National Fuel Gas Company 1983 Incentive Stock Option
Plan and the National Fuel Gas Company 1984 Stock Plan, and in the related Prospectuses, (ii) the
Registration Statements (Form S-8, Nos. 33-28037, 333-3055 and 333-102220, and Nos. 2-97641,
33-17341, 333-03057 and 333-102211), as amended, relating to the National Fuel Gas Company
Tax-Deferred Savings Plan and the National Fuel Gas Company Tax-Deferred Savings Plan for Non-Union
Employees, respectively, and in the related Prospectuses, (iii) the Registration Statement (Form
S-3, No. 333-03803), as amended, relating to $500,000,000 of National Fuel Gas Company debentures
and/or medium term notes and, in the related Prospectus, (iv) the Registration Statements (Form
S-3, No. 33-51881 and Form S-3D, No. 333-51769), as amended, relating to the National Fuel Gas
Company Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, and in the related Prospectuses, (v) the
Registration Statement (Form S-3, No. 33-36868), as amended, relating to the National Fuel Gas
Company Customer Stock Purchase Plan, and in the related Prospectus, (vi) the Registration
Statements (Form S-8, Nos. 33-49693, 333-117132 and 333-130280), as amended, relating to the
National Fuel Gas Company 1993 Award and Option Plan, and in the related Prospectus, and (vii) the
Registration Statements (Form S-8, Nos. 333-51595, 333-55124, 333-117131, and 333-130281), relating
to the National Fuel Gas Company 1997 Award and Option Plan, and in the related Prospectus, (viii)
the Registration Statement (Form S-3, No. 333-83497), as amended, relating to $625,000,000 of
National Fuel Gas Company debentures and/or common stock, and in the related Prospectus, (ix) the
Registration Statement (Form S-3, No. 333-102200), as amended, relating to $800,000,000 of National
Fuel Gas Company debt securities, common stock, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units,
and in the related Prospectus, and (x) the Registration Statements (Form S-3, Nos. 333-85711 and
333-123654), as amended, relating to the National Fuel Gas Company Direct Stock Purchase and
Dividend Reinvestment Plan, and in the related Prospectuses, of the reproduction of our report
dated October 19, 2006, appearing in this National Fuel Gas Company Annual Report on Form 10-K.

RALPH E. DAVIS ASSOCIATES, INC. 

/s/ Allen C. Barron

Allen C. Barron, P.E.  

President 

October 19, 2006 
Houston, Texas

1717 St. James Place, Suite 460      Houston, Texas 77056      Office 713-622-8955      Fax 713-626-3664      www.ralphedavis.com

Worldwide Energy Consultants Since 1924 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 5
 l22614aexv23w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.2

exv23w2 

Exhibit 23.2 

CONSENT OF ENGINEER 

We hereby consent to the reproduction of our audit report for Seneca Energy Canada, Inc.
dated October 19, 2006, and to the reference to our estimate dated September 30, 2006, appearing in
this National Fuel Gas Company Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in (i) the Registration Statement (Form S-8,
No. 2-94539), as amended, relating to the National Fuel Gas Company 1983 Incentive Stock Option
Plan and the National Fuel Gas Company 1984 Stock Plan, and in the related Prospectuses, (ii) the
Registration Statements (Form S-8, Nos. 33-28037, 333-3055 and 333-102220, and Nos. 2-97641,
33-17341, 333-03057 and 333-102211), as amended, relating to the National Fuel Gas Company
Tax-Deferred Savings Plan and the National Fuel Gas Company Tax-Deferred Savings Plan for Non-Union
Employees, respectively, and in the related Prospectuses, (iii) the Registration Statement (Form
S-3, No. 333-03803), as amended, relating to $500,000,000 of National Fuel Gas Company debentures
and/or medium term notes and, in the related Prospectus, (iv) the Registration Statements (Form
S-3, No. 33-51881 and Form S-3D, No. 333-51769), as amended, relating to the National Fuel Gas
Company Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, and in the related Prospectuses, (v) the
Registration Statement (Form S-3, No. 33-36868), as amended, relating to the National Fuel Gas
Company Customer Stock Purchase Plan, and in the related Prospectus, (vi) the Registration
Statements (Form S-8, Nos. 33-49693, 333-117132 and 333-130280), as amended, relating to the
National Fuel Gas Company 1993 Award and Option Plan, and in the related Prospectus, and (vii) the
Registration Statements (Form S-8, Nos. 333-51595, 333-55124, 333-117131 and 333-130281), relating
to the National Fuel Gas Company 1997 Award and Option Plan, and in the related Prospectus, (viii)
the Registration Statement (Form S-3, No. 333-83497), as amended, relating to $625,000,000 of
National Fuel Gas Company debentures and/or common stock, and in the related Prospectus, (ix) the
Registration Statement (Form S-3, No. 333-102200), as amended, relating to $800,000,000 of National
Fuel Gas Company debt securities, common stock, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units,
and in the related Prospectus, and (x) the Registration Statements (Form S-3, Nos. 333-85711 and
333-123654), as amended, relating to the National Fuel Gas Company Direct Stock Purchase and
Dividend Reinvestment Plan, and in the related Prospectuses, of the reproduction of our report
dated October 19, 2006, appearing in this National Fuel Gas Company Annual Report on Form 10-K.

RALPH E. DAVIS ASSOCIATES, INC. 

/s/ Allen C. Barron

Allen C. Barron, P.E.   

President 

October 19, 2006 
Houston, Texas

1717 St. James Place, Suite 460      Houston, Texas 77056      Office 713-622-8955      Fax 713-626-3664      www.ralphedavis.com

Worldwide Energy Consultants Since 1924 

</EX-23.2>

<EX-23.3>
 6
 l22614aexv23w3.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.3

exv23w3 

Exhibit 23.3 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-123654, 333-85711, and 333-102200) and Form S-8
(Nos. 2-94539, 33-49693, 333-03055, 333-51595, 333-55124, 333-102211, 333-102220, 333-117131 and
333-117132) of National Fuel Gas Company of our report dated December 7, 2006 relating to the
financial statements, financial statement schedule, management s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.

Buffalo,
New York December  8, 2006

</EX-23.3>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 l22614aexv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATION

I, P. C. Ackerman, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of National Fuel Gas Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth
fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:
December 7, 2006

/s/ P. C. Ackerman

P. C. Ackerman

Chairman
of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 l22614aexv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATION

I, R. J. Tanski, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of National Fuel Gas Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth
fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:
December 7, 2006

/s/ R. J. Tanski

R. J. Tanski

Treasurer and Principal Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 9
 l22614aexv32.htm
 EXHIBIT 32

exv32 

Exhibit 32 

NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY 

Certification Pursuant to Section 906  
  of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

Each of the undersigned, P. C. ACKERMAN, the Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer, and R. J. TANSKI, the Treasurer and Principal Financial
Officer, of NATIONAL FUEL GAS COMPANY (the  Company ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that:

1. 
       
     The Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended September 30, 2006
(the  Annual Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
section 13(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

2. 
       
     Information contained in the Annual Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has executed this statement this
7th day of December, 2006.

/s/  P. C. Ackerman

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/  R. J. Tanski

Treasurer and Principal Financial Officer  

</EX-32>

<EX-99.1>
 10
 l22614aexv99w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 99.1

exv99w1 

Exhibit 99.1 

October 19, 2006

Seneca Resources Corporation 
1201 Louisiana, Suite 400 
Houston, Texas 77002

Attention:

Mr. Barry McMahan 

Sr. Vice President 

Re:

Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Reserves, Seneca
Resources Corporation 

As of September 30, 2006 

Gentlemen:

At your request, the firm of Ralph E. Davis Associates, Inc. has audited an evaluation of the
proved oil, condensate and natural gas reserves on leaseholds in which Seneca Resources Corporation
has certain interests. This report presents a summary of the Proved Developed (producing and
non-producing) and Proved Undeveloped reserves anticipated to be produced from Seneca Resources 
interest.

The reserves associated with these estimates have been classified in accordance with the
definitions of the Securities and Exchange Commission as found in Rule 4-10(a) of regulation
S-X of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have also estimated the future net revenue and
discounted present value associated with these reserves as of September 30, 2006, utilizing a
scenario of non escalated product prices as well as non escalated costs of operations, i.e., prices
and costs were not escalated above current values as detailed later in this report. The present
value is presented for your information and should not be construed as an estimate of the fair
market value.

The summarized results of the reserve audit are as follows:

1717 St. James Place, Suite 460 Houston, Texas 77056 Office 713-622-8955 Fax 713-626-3664 www.ralphedavis.com

Worldwide Energy Consultants Since 1924 

RALPH E. DAVIS 
ASSOCIATES. INC. 

Seneca Resources Corporation

Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Reserves

October 19, 2006 

Mr. Barry McMahan

Page 2 

Estimated Proved Reserves 
Net to Seneca Resources Corporation 
As of September 30, 2006 

Liquid volumes are expressed in thousands of barrels (MBbls) of stock tank oil. Gas volumes
are expressed in millions of standard cubic feet (MMSCF) at the official temperature and pressure
bases of the areas wherein the gas reserves are located.

DISCUSSION: 

The scope of this study was to audit the proved reserves attributable to the interests of Seneca
Resources Corporation. Reserve estimates were prepared by Seneca using acceptable evaluation

RALPH E. DAVIS 
ASSOCIATES, INC. 

Seneca Resources Corporation

Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Reserves

October 19, 2006 

Mr. Barry McMahan

Page 3 

principals for each source. The quantities presented herein are estimated reserves of oil,
condensate and natural gas that geologic and engineering data demonstrate can be recovered from
known reservoirs under existing economic conditions with reasonable certainty.

Ralph E. Davis Associates, Inc. has audited the reserve estimates, the data incorporated into
preparing the estimates and the methodology used to evaluate the reserves. In each of Seneca s
producing divisions all current year additions and those properties of significant value were
reviewed by Ralph E. Davis. Reserve estimates of current producing zones, productive zones behind
pipe and undrilled well locations were reviewed in detail. Certain changes to either individual
reserve estimates or the categorization of reserves were suggested by Ralph E. Davis Associates,
Inc. and accepted by Seneca Resources. It is our opinion that the reserves presented herein meet
all the criteria of Proved Reserves.

Neither Ralph E. Davis Associates, Inc. nor any of its employees have any significant interest in
Seneca Resources Corporation or the properties reported herein. The employment and compensation to
make this study are not contingent on our estimate of reserves.

We appreciate the opportunity to be of service to you in this matter and will be glad to address
any questions or inquiries you may have.

Very truly yours,  
RALPH E. DAVIS ASSOCIATES, INC. 

/s/ Allen C. Barron

Allen C. Barron, P. E.   

President  

</EX-99.1>

<EX-99.2>
 11
 l22614aexv99w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 99.2

exv99w2 

Exhibit 99.2 

October 19, 2006

Seneca Energy Canada, Inc. 
550 6 th  Avenue SW 
Suite 1000 
Calgary, Alberta T2P OS2

Attention:

Mr. Jeff Campbell 

Vice President 

Re:

Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Reserves, Seneca
Energy Canada, Inc. 

As of September 30, 2006 

Gentlemen:

At your request, the firm of Ralph E. Davis Associates, Inc. has audited an evaluation of the
proved oil, condensate and natural gas reserves on leaseholds in which Seneca Energy Canada, Inc.
has certain interests. This report presents a summary of the Proved Developed (producing and
non-producing) and Proved Undeveloped reserves anticipated to be produced from Seneca Energy
Canada s interest.

The reserves associated with these estimates have been classified in accordance with the
definitions of the Securities and Exchange Commission as found in Rule 4-10(a) of regulation S-X of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have also estimated the future net revenue and discounted
present value associated with these reserves as of September 30, 2006, utilizing a scenario of non
escalated product prices as well as non escalated costs of operations, i.e., prices and costs were
not escalated above current values as detailed later in this report. The present value is
presented for your information and should not be construed as an estimate of the fair market value.

Liquid volumes are expressed in thousands of barrels (MBbls) of stock tank oil. Gas volumes are
expressed in millions of standard cubic feet (MMSCF) at the official temperature and pressure bases
of the areas wherein the gas reserves are located.

1717 St.
James Place, Suite 460 Houston, Texas 77056 Office 713-622-8955 Fax 713-626-3664 www.ralphedavis.com

Worldwide Energy Consultants Since 1924 

RALPH E. DAVIS 
ASSOCIATES, INC.

Seneca Energy Canada, Inc.

October 19, 2006 

Oil Condensate and Natural Gas Reserves

Page 2 

Mr. Jeff Campbell

The summarized results of the reserve audit are as follows:

Estimated Proved Reserves 
Net to Seneca Energy Canada, Inc. 
As of September 30, 2006 

DISCUSSION: 

The scope of this study was to audit the proved reserves attributable to the interests of Seneca
Energy Canada, Inc. Reserve estimates were prepared by Seneca Energy Canada using acceptable
evaluation principals for each source. The quantities presented herein are estimated reserves of
oil, condensate and natural gas that geologic and engineering data demonstrate can be recovered
from known reservoirs under existing economic conditions with reasonable certainty.

Ralph E. Davis Associates, Inc. has audited the reserve estimates, the data incorporated into
preparing the estimates and the methodology used to evaluate the reserves. In each of Seneca
Energy Canada s producing areas all current year additions and those properties of significant
value were reviewed by Ralph E. Davis. Reserve estimates of current producing zones, productive
zones behind pipe and undrilled well locations were reviewed in detail. Certain changes to either
individual reserve estimates or the categorization of reserves were suggested by Ralph E. Davis
Associates, Inc. and accepted by Seneca Energy Canada. It is our opinion that the reserves
presented herein meet all the criteria of Proved Reserves.

RALPH E. DAVIS 
ASSOCIATES, INC.

Seneca Energy Canada, Inc.

October 19, 2006 

Oil Condensate and Natural Gas Reserves

Page 3 

Mr. Jeff Campbell

Neither Ralph E. Davis Associates, Inc. nor any of its employees have any significant interest in
Seneca Energy Canada, Inc. or Seneca Resources Corporation or the properties reported herein. The
employment and compensation to make this study are not contingent on our estimate of reserves.

We appreciate the opportunity to be of service to you in this matter, and will be glad to address
any questions or inquiries you may have.

Very truly yours,  
RALPH E. DAVIS ASSOCIATES, INC. 

/s/ Allen C. Barron

Allen C. Barron, P. E.  

President  

</EX-99.2>

<EX-99.3>
 12
 l22614aexv99w3.htm
 EXHIBIT 99.3

exv99w3 

Exhibit 99.3 

Exploration and Production

Pipeline and Storage

Timber

Utility

Energy Marketing

</EX-99.3>

