<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061002_10-K_edgar_data_216275_0000950152-06-007949_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>911071</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>255129</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>391451</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>62</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950152-06-007949.hdr.sgml : 20061002
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061002170939
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950152-06-007949
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060731
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061002
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061002

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			JLG INDUSTRIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000216275
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIP [3531]
		IRS NUMBER:				251199382
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			PA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-12123
		FILM NUMBER:		061121387

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 JLG DR
		CITY:			MCCONNELLSBURG
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			17233
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7174855161

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MTGTjmRDyLP0eKt7pFzEvbdvnM9pPIMLRltsYt+Zq2U6ZdDzgZ3krOa52doyoM4N
 QWmqj3uGEF+99wZ8vqYotg==

 0000950152-06-007949.txt : 20061002

10-K
 1
 l22429ae10vk.htm
 JLG INDUSTRIES, INC.   10-K

JLG Industries, Inc.   10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, DC 20549 

FORM 10-K 

(Mark One)

For the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006

For the transition period from                        to                       

Commission file number: 1-12123 

JLG INDUSTRIES, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 
(717) 485-5161 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

(Title of class)

(Name of exchange on which registered) 

Capital Stock ($.20 par value) 

New York Stock Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes
    No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer
         Accelerated filer          Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes     No

At September 25, 2006, there were 106,745,538 shares of capital stock of the Registrant
outstanding, and the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant at that date was $1,993,612,017.

Documents Incorporated by Reference 

Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by
reference into Part III.

Table of Contents   

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Item

PART I    

1. Business   

1 

Products and Services

1 

Industry

4 

Segment Financial Information

5 

Marketing and Distribution

5 

Product Development

5 

Intellectual Property

5 

Seasonal Nature of Business

6 

Competition

6 

Material and Supply Arrangements

6 

Product Liability

6 

Employees

6 

Environmental

6 

Foreign Operations

7 

Executive Officers of the Registrant

7 

Available Information

8 

1A. Risk Factors   

8 

1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

15 

2. Properties   

15 

3. Legal Proceedings   

15 

4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

16 

PART II    

5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
of Equity Securities   

16 

6. Selected Financial Data   

18 

7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

19 

Overview

19 

Results of Operations

20 

Financial Condition

26 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

30 

Outlook

33 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

34 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

34 

7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

34 

8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

36 

Consolidated Statements of Income

36 

Consolidated Balance Sheets

37 

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity

38 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

39 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

40 

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

70 

9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

72 

9A. Controls and Procedures   

72 

9B. Other Information   

73 

i

Table of Contents   

TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) 

Item

ii

Table of Contents   

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Founded in 1969, JLG Industries, Inc. ( JLG ,  we , and  our ) is the world s leading
producer of access equipment (which we define as aerial work platforms and telehandlers) based on
gross revenues. Our aerial work platform and telehandler products are used in a wide variety of
construction, industrial, institutional and general maintenance applications to position workers
and materials at heights. Our access equipment customers include equipment rental companies,
construction contractors, manufacturing companies, home improvement centers and the U.S. military.
Until February 2006, when we sold the Gradall    excavator product line, we manufactured and sold
telescopic hydraulic excavators, which were used primarily by state and local municipalities in
earthmoving applications. We sell our products globally under some of the most well established
and widely recognized brand names in the access equipment industry, including JLG   , SkyTrak   ,
Lull   , Toucan   , Liftlux  and Gradall. We have manufacturing facilities in the United States,
Belgium and France, as well as sales and service operations on six continents.

On February 3, 2006, we sold substantially all of the assets pertaining to our line of Gradall
excavators to Alamo Group Inc. ( AGI ) for cash consideration of $33.0 million net of adjustments
based on a balance sheet as of the closing date and on valuation of certain pension liabilities and
assets. The sale included the 430,000 square foot manufacturing facility in New Philadelphia, Ohio
and related equipment, machinery, tooling, and intellectual property. For additional information
related to our Gradall disposition during the third quarter of fiscal 2006, see Note 3 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report.

On October 27, 2005, we entered into a 20-year strategic alliance (the  Alliance ) with
Caterpillar Inc. ( Caterpillar ) related to the design, manufacture and sale by us of Caterpillar
branded telehandlers. The Alliance establishes separate dates in different geographic markets for
the transition of telehandler manufacturing and selling responsibility from Caterpillar to us. As
part of the Alliance, we acquired certain equipment, inventory and substantially all of the tooling
and intellectual property used by Caterpillar exclusively in connection with the design and
manufacture of Caterpillar s current European telehandler products. For additional information
related to our Alliance with Caterpillar, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report.

Building on our European presence while remaining focused on the access industry, we completed
our purchase of Delta Manlift SAS ( Delta ), a subsidiary of The Manitowoc Company ( Manitowoc ) on
April 30, 2004. Headquartered in Tonneins, France, Delta has two facilities that manufacture the
Toucan Manlift brand of vertical mast lifts, a line of aerial work platforms distributed throughout
Europe for use principally in industrial and maintenance operations. In addition, we purchased
certain intellectual property and related assets of Manitowoc s discontinued product lines, which
permitted us to re-launch selected models of the Liftlux brand of scissor lifts. The Liftlux brand
of scissor lifts, primarily known for its large capacity and height, is popular with specialty
re-rental companies in Europe and North America and complements the upper end of our scissor lift
line. For additional information relative to our Delta acquisition, see Note 2 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report.

On August 1, 2003, we completed our acquisition of the OmniQuip    business unit ( OmniQuip ) of
Textron Inc., which included all operations relating to the SkyTrak and Lull brand of telehandler
products and telehandlers sold to the U.S. military. For additional information related to our
OmniQuip acquisition, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part
II of this report.

Products and Services 

JLG designs, manufactures and sells aerial work platforms, telehandlers, and trailers, as well
as an array of complementary accessories that increase the versatility and efficiency of these
products for end-users.

Our JLG brand aerial work platforms are designed to permit workers to position themselves,
their tools and materials efficiently and safely in elevated work areas that otherwise might have
to be reached by scaffolding, ladders or other means. We produce three basic types of aerial work
platforms under the JLG brand: boom lifts,

1 

Table of Contents   

scissor lifts, and vertical mast lifts, which include
our stock picker models. Aerial work platforms consist of a platform mounted at the end of various
styles of elevating assembly. The elevating assemblies are mounted on one
of several mobile chassis styles that can be self-propelled, towable and/or push-around. A
variety of accessories for specified end-user applications also may be ordered with certain aerial
work platform models. Our aerial work platforms are primarily used in construction, industrial,
commercial and institutional applications and are designed to help people access hard-to-reach work
areas.

Our boom lifts are especially useful for reaching over obstacles and for reaching other
elevated positions not effectively approached by vertical lifting devices. Boom lifts are also
ideal for applications where the chassis cannot be positioned directly beneath the intended work
area. We produce boom lift models of various sizes with platform heights up to 150 feet. The boom
may be rotated, raised or lowered, and extended while the work platform remains horizontal. These
machines can be driven forward or backward and steered by the operator from the work platform, even
while the boom is elevated. Boom-type models have work platforms, which are available in multiple
sizes to accommodate two people, with the rated lift capacities ranging from 500 to 1,000 pounds.
Boom lifts are available with electric and/or internal combustion power sources.

Our scissor lifts are designed to provide access from directly below or adjacent to a work
area. In general, scissor lifts have larger work areas and allow for heavier loads than boom lifts.
Compact electric models can maneuver in restricted areas, and many are designed to fit through
standard doorways. Larger models, usually with internal combustion engines, are used in outdoor
environments and generally provide higher capacities and larger work areas than indoor models.
Scissor lifts may be maneuvered in a manner similar to boom lifts, but the platforms may be
extended only vertically, except for a standard feature that extends the deck horizontally up to
ten feet. Scissor lifts are available in various models, with maximum platform heights of up to 105
feet and various platform sizes of up to nine feet wide and up to 26 feet long. Scissor lifts are
designed to lift at least two people with some models capable of lifting six. The rated lift
capacities range from 500 to 3,000 pounds.

Our vertical mast lifts consist of a work platform attached to an aluminum or steel mast that
extends vertically, which, in turn, is mounted on either a push-around or self-propelled base.
Available in various models, these machines in their retracted position can fit through standard
door openings, yet reach platform heights of up to 41 feet when fully extended, and have rated lift
capacities ranging between 300 and 500 pounds. In addition, our stock picker models can reach up to
21 feet and have a rated lift capacity of up to 500 pounds. Stock Picker models feature a tray
with the platform used for convenient loading of boxes and/or material. Most vertical mast lifts
are designed to lift a single worker.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we continued our focus on commercial and industrial
market channels for access products, such as our vertical mast lifts and trailers, through the
formation of the Commercial Solutions Group. The Commercial Solutions Group is an element in our
strategy to diversify our revenue base and expand our market penetration of non-traditional
channels for access equipment. It is focused on extending access solutions to commercial,
industrial and institutional markets. The requirements of these markets and channels for product
design and customer service will be the focus of the Commercial Solutions Group.

Our SkyTrak, Lull, Gradall and JLG brand telehandlers (rough terrain, telescopic forklifts)
are typically used by residential, non-residential and institutional building contractors and
agricultural workers for lifting, transporting and placing a wide variety of materials at their
point of use or storage. We are North America s leading manufacturer and marketer of telehandlers.
Our telehandlers have rated lift capacities ranging from 5,000 to 12,000 pounds and maximum lifting
heights ranging from 19 to 55 feet, and they can be fitted with a variety of material handling
attachments including forks, buckets, truss booms and augers to name a few. In addition to our
commercial lines, we also manufacture the All-Terrain Lifter, Army System ( ATLAS ) under a sole
source contract with the U.S. Army. We also have a contract to provide the Millennia Military
Vehicle ( MMV ) to the U.S. Marine Corps. The ATLAS and MMV are specifically designed for military
applications. Pursuant to the Alliance with Caterpillar, we will be the exclusive manufacturer of
Caterpillar branded telehandlers for sale exclusively through the Caterpillar dealer network.
These machines will be available in the first half of fiscal 2007.

We offer a line of European-style telehandlers designed for construction and industrial use,
as well as a line specifically designed for agricultural applications, which comprise a significant
portion of the European telehandler market. To better access the agricultural segment of the
European telehandler market, in April 2005, we entered into

2 

Table of Contents   

an agreement with SAME Deutz-Fahr Group
( SDFG ) whereby SDFG is now marketing certain of our compact telehandlers in the European
agricultural segment through its distributor network. This relationship strengthens our efforts to
market telehandlers to the agricultural market and helps diversify our end-use customers, which
historically have been found in construction, general industry and maintenance markets. All
European-style
telehandlers are produced in our Maasmechelen, Belgium facility. This includes the European
telehandlers produced for the Caterpillar dealer network.

In North America, we also manufacture and market a line of Triple-L  drop-deck trailers with
load capacities ranging from 2,000 to 10,000 pounds. These load trailers are primarily sold to big
box retailers and large national rental companies to provide their equipment rental customers with
the capability to transport our equipment. Additionally, we assemble and market portable light
towers in Australia.

A wide range of complementary accessories is available across our product lines. These
accessories not only enhance the productivity of our equipment, but also help to optimize a given
piece of equipment to meet the demands of a specific application or task. For our telehandlers,
the accessories are primarily boom-end attachments that alter the application of the machine,
switching a telehandler, for example, from a forklift to a loader. Our industry-leading
Workstation in the Sky    brand packages describes a series of packages and attachments that enable
operators of our aerial work platforms to perform certain tasks more effectively and efficiently
than through the use of conventional methods. For example, the SkyWelder    package that is
available on many JLG boom lifts incorporates a complete welding system within the boom lift
itself. The system is comprised of a welding unit mounted in the boom lift s operator platform,
with power supplied by an on-board generator, yielding increased autonomy and eliminating the need
to rent or purchase separate pieces of equipment. Other Workstation in the Sky series packages and
attachments offer similar efficiencies.

JLG also provides after-sales service and support for our installed base of equipment,
including parts sales and equipment rentals, and sells used, remanufactured and reconditioned
equipment. We remanufacture, recondition (to certain specified standards, including American
National Standards Institute, or ANSI standards) and repair JLG used equipment and resell the same.
In addition, we repair and resell used equipment of competing manufacturers. We offer a variety of
service warranties on these machines. We are the only access equipment manufacturer with dedicated
remanufacturing facilities in both North America and Europe for remanufacturing and remarketing
previously owned equipment with like-new warranties.

In North America, we offer this capability primarily through our ServicePlus  operations,
which offer services from preventive maintenance programs to general repairs to reconditioning and
remanufacturing of our equipment. We established ServicePlus in July 2004 with an initial location
in Houston, Texas. In June 2005, we expanded ServicePlus to include our 12-year old
McConnellsburg, Pennsylvania reconditioning and remanufacturing facility, and in July 2006 we added
an additional location in Kennesaw, Georgia. We plan to expand ServicePlus beyond these three
regional facilities by establishing multiple sites throughout the United States.

In 2004 we established a reconditioning and remanufacturing operation in Europe with the
purchase of a dedicated facility near our manufacturing operations in Tonneins, France.

The North America operation in McConnellsburg, PA has been certified as meeting ISO 9001:2000
standards relating to customer service quality.

We also distribute replacement parts for our and competing manufacturers  equipment through
supplier-direct shipment programs and a system comprised of single parts depots in each of North
America, Europe and Australia. Sales of replacement parts have historically been less cyclical and
typically generate higher margins than sales of new equipment. To help facilitate parts sales, we
use Internet-based e-commerce in an effort to develop closer relationships with our customers. For
example, we handle virtually all of our warranty transactions and approximately 70% of our parts
orders via the Internet.

At July 31, 2006, we had a rent-to-rent fleet of approximately 150 units that we deploy in
North America to support our rental company customers  demands for short-term rental contracts. We
maintain a similar rent-to-rent fleet of approximately 470 units in Europe. The rental aspect of
our North American and European rental operations is designed to support, rather than compete with,
our rental company customers, offering added fleet management

3 

Table of Contents   

flexibility by making additional
machines available on short-term leases to meet peak demand needs of large projects. Also, in Great
Britain, we operate a small fleet of service vehicles.

We support the sales, service, and rental programs of our customers with product advertising,
cooperative promotional programs, major trade show participation, and training programs covering
safety, service, and product sales. In addition, JLG has established a merchandising program
featuring scale models, golf clubs and accessories,
apparel, art prints and other items under the JLG Gear  program. We supplement our domestic
sales and service support to our international customers through overseas facilities in Australia,
Belgium, Brazil, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, New Zealand, Poland, Spain, Sweden and the
United Kingdom, and a joint venture in the Netherlands.

Through our Access Financial Solutions segment, we arrange equipment financing and leasing
solutions for our customers, primarily through  private-label  arrangements with third party
financial institutions, and provide credit support in connection with these financing and leasing
arrangements. Financing arrangements that we offer or arrange through this segment include
installment sale contracts, capital leases, operating leases and rental purchase guarantees. Terms
of these arrangements vary depending on the type of transaction, but typically range between 36 and
72 months and generally require the customer to be responsible for insurance, taxes and maintenance
of the equipment, and to bear the risk of damage to or loss of the equipment.

We incur contingent limited recourse liabilities with respect to our customer financing
activities in two ways. For additional information relative to guarantees, see Note 14 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report. We provide limited
guarantees to support certain of our customers  obligations in the event of default to third-party
financing companies that originate credit transactions that we help to arrange. We also monetize a
substantial portion of the finance receivables that we originate through our ongoing program of
syndications, limited recourse financings and other monetization transactions. In connection with
some of these monetization transactions, we have limited recourse obligations relating to possible
defaults by the obligors under the terms of the contracts, which comprise the finance receivables.
For additional information relative to limited recourse obligations, see Note 10 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report. During fiscal 2006, we
supported our customers in directly financing $26.5 million in sales and in arranging third-party
financing for an additional $329.7 million in sales.

Our staff in this segment is comprised of seasoned professionals who are experienced in credit
analysis and financial services support. We adhere to credit policies that require various levels
of credit approval depending on the transaction size and overall credit concentration with any
customer. For example, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer credit approval is
required for any single customer credit including open account balance in excess of $10 million and
approval of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors is required for any single customer
credit in excess of $25 million. Credit decisions to extend financing to customers are based on a
credit review process that incorporates both financial analysis as well as business rationale to
support a particular customer. Once identified as a key customer, we regularly review the
customer s financial results and projections and its business and expansion plans and monitor our
overall credit exposure to that customer.

Industry 

We operate primarily in the access segment of the global construction and industrial equipment
industry. We define the access segment as aerial work platforms and telehandlers. Demand for
these products is greatest among industrialized economies where productivity and safety are valued.
Consequently, the largest markets for access equipment are North America, Western Europe and the
developed markets of Asia and the Pacific Rim. Manufacturers sell access equipment to various
equipment rental companies, independent equipment distributors and direct sales. Equipment rental
companies primarily rent the equipment to a broad range of end-users while equipment distributors
primarily sell and service the equipment to end-users and other customers. Aerial work platforms
reach end-users predominantly through the equipment rental channel. Telehandlers reach end-users
through both the equipment rental and equipment distribution channels. Additionally, home
improvement centers are a smaller, but growing channel for specialized access equipment targeted at
small contractors and other home improvement professionals. Home improvement centers and other big
box retailers also present significant opportunities for sales of access products for stock-picking
and other in-store applications. We also sell direct to the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps.

4 

Table of Contents   

The North American equipment rental industry has been consolidating since the mid-1990s,
resulting in a number of larger national and regional companies. The consolidation in the
equipment rental industry has contributed to a significant reduction in the number of access
equipment manufacturers as the larger equipment rental companies have sought to reduce the number
of suppliers from which they purchase equipment. The number of significant North American and
European broad-line aerial work platform manufacturers has decreased from 11 to three, and the
number of significant North American and European telehandler manufacturers has decreased from 13
to eight. We believe this consolidation has positioned us and the other remaining access equipment
manufacturers to generate improved returns from stronger market shares and the associated
purchasing and production economies.

Segment Financial Information 

Financial information regarding each of our segments appears in Note 18 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report.

Marketing and Distribution 

Our products are marketed in over 3,500 locations worldwide through independent rental
companies and distributors that rent and sell our products and provide service support, as well as
through other sales and service branches or organizations in which we hold equity positions. North
American customers are located in all 50 states in the U.S., as well as in Canada and Mexico.
International customers are located in Europe, the Asia/Pacific region, Australia, Japan, Africa,
the Middle East and Latin America, and our sales force is comprised of almost 180 employees
worldwide. In North America, teams of sales employees are dedicated to specific major customers,
channels or geographic regions. Our sales employees in Europe and the rest of the world are spread
among our 20 international sales and service offices.

Sales to one customer, United Rentals, Inc., accounted for 13%, 14% and 14% of our
consolidated revenues for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Sales to
another customer, Rental Service Corporation, accounted for 10% of our consolidated revenues for
the year ended July 31, 2006. Sales to, Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation, accounted for 10% of
our consolidated revenues for the year ended July 31, 2005.

Certain of our operations have been certified as meeting ISO 9001 and ISO 9001:2000 quality
management standards. We believe that ISO certification is a key component of our quality
management system and a number of customers value and require such certification as a condition to
doing business.

Product Development 

We invest significantly in product development, diversification and improvement, including the
modification of existing products for special applications. Our product development staff is
comprised of over 140 employees. Product development expenditures totaled approximately $28.7
million, $23.8 million and $20.2 million for the fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In
those same years, sales of new or redesigned products introduced within the preceding 24 months
were $204.1 million, $323.4 million and $291.8 million, or 9%, 19% and 24% of sales, respectively.

Intellectual Property 

We have various registered trademarks and patents relating to our products and our business,
including registered trademarks for the JLG, SkyTrak, Lull and Toucan brand names. In addition, as
part of our Alliance with Caterpillar, we have licensed to use certain of the Caterpillar
trademarks. While we consider this intellectual property to be beneficial in the operation of our
business, we are not dependent on any single patent or trademark or group of patents or trademarks.

5 

Table of Contents   

Seasonal Nature of Business 

Our business is seasonal with a substantial portion of our sales occurring in the spring and
summer months that constitute the traditional construction season. In addition, within any fiscal
quarter the majority of our sales occur within the final month of the quarter.

Competition 

We operate in the global construction, maintenance, industrial and agricultural equipment
markets. Our competitors range from some of the world s largest multi-national construction
equipment manufacturers to small single-product niche manufacturers. Within this global market, we
face competition principally from two significant aerial work platform manufacturers, approximately
24 smaller aerial work platform manufacturers, seven major
telehandler manufacturers and approximately 20 smaller telehandler manufacturers, as well as
numerous manufacturers of other niche products such as boom trucks, cherry pickers, mast climbers,
straight mast and truck-mounted fork-lifts, rough-terrain and all-terrain cranes, truck-mounted
cranes, portable material lifts and various types of material handling equipment that offer similar
or overlapping functionality to our products. We believe we are the world s leading manufacturer of
aerial work platforms and one of the world s leading manufacturers of telehandlers.

Material and Supply Arrangements 

We obtain raw materials, principally steel; other component parts, most notably engines, drive
motors, tires, bearings and hydraulic components; and supplies from third parties. We also
outsource certain assemblies and fabricated parts. We rely on preferred vendors as a sole source
for  just-in-time  delivery of many raw materials and manufactured components. We believe these
arrangements have resulted in reduced investment requirements, greater access to technology
developments and lower per-unit costs. Because we maintain limited raw material and component
inventories, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers may adversely affect our
ability to satisfy our customers on a timely basis and thereby affect our financial performance. In
addition, market prices of some of the raw materials we use (such as steel and petroleum-based
components) are volatile and can increase rapidly. If we are not able to pass raw material or
component price increases on to our customers, our margins could be adversely affected.

Product Liability 

We have rigorous product safety standards, and we continually work to improve the safety and
reliability of our products. We monitor accidents and possible claims and establish liability
estimates with respect to claims based on internal evaluations of the merits of individual claims
and the reserves assigned by our independent insurance claims adjustment firm. The methods of
making such estimates and establishing the resulting accrued liability are reviewed frequently, and
any adjustments resulting from such reviews are reflected in current earnings. Reserves are based
on actual incidents and do not necessarily directly relate to sales activity. Based upon our best
estimate of anticipated losses, product liability costs approximated 0.6%, 0.8% and 1.0% of our
consolidated revenues for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

For additional information related to product liability insurance coverage and cost, see Note
14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report.

Employees 

Our worldwide employment was 4,088 as of July 31, 2006. This represents an increase of 161
employees from July 31, 2005.

Environmental 

Our operations are subject to various international, federal, state and local environmental
laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are administered by international, federal, state
and local agencies. Among other things, these laws and regulations regulate the discharge of
materials into the water, air and land, and govern

6 

Table of Contents   

the use and disposal of hazardous and
non-hazardous materials. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with all
applicable environmental laws and regulations, except for violations that we believe would not have
a material adverse effect on our business or financial position.

Foreign Operations 

We manufacture our products in the U.S., Belgium and France for sale throughout the world.
Revenues from customers outside of the United States were 27%, 24% and 23% of our consolidated
revenues for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Revenues from European customers were
18%, 15% and 15% of our consolidated revenues for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Additional financial information regarding our foreign operations appears in Note 18 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report.

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following table contains information about our current executive officers as of October 2,
2006.

Principal  

Position  

Name  
       
      Age  
       
      Position  
       
      Held Since  

William M. Lasky

59 

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer

2001 

James H. Woodward, Jr

53 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

2002 

Peter L. Bonafede, Jr

56 

Senior Vice President, Manufacturing and Supply
Chain Management

2005 

Israel Celli

53 

Senior Vice President, International Market
Development and Sales

2006 

Wayne P. MacDonald

53 

Senior Vice President, Engineering

2002 

Craig E. Paylor

50 

Senior Vice President, Marketing

2006 

Philip H. Rehbein

56 

Senior Vice President, Commercial Solutions Group

2005 

Thomas D. Singer

54 

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

2001 

William M. Lasky  joined JLG in December 1999. Mr. Lasky has served as Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer since February 2001. Prior to February 2001, he served as our
President and Chief Executive Officer, and prior to September 2000, as our President and Chief
Operating Officer.

James H. Woodward, Jr.  joined JLG in August 2000. Mr. Woodward has served as our Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2002. Prior to May 2002, he served as our
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining JLG in August 2000, he served
as Vice President and Director E-Business of Dana Corporation, and prior to 2000, as Dana
Corporation s Vice President and Corporate Controller.

Peter L. Bonafede  joined JLG in February 1999. Mr. Bonafede has served as our Senior Vice
President, Manufacturing and Supply Chain Management since August 2005. Prior to August 2005, he
served as our Senior Vice President, Manufacturing.

Israel Celli  joined JLG in October 2000. Mr. Celli has served as our Senior Vice President,
International Market Development and Sales since June 2006. Prior to June 2006, he served as our
Vice President, International Sales, Marketing and Customer Support. Prior to August 2002, he
served as our Vice President of International Sales, and prior to November 2001, as our General
Manager of Latin America. Prior to joining JLG in October 2000, he served as Marketing Director for
Latin America, Case Brasil and Cia (CNH Global).

Wayne P. MacDonald  joined JLG in May 1975. Mr. MacDonald has served as our Senior Vice
President, Engineering since August 2002. Prior to August 2002, he served as our Vice President,
Engineering, and prior to February 2000, as our Director, Advanced Technology Development and
Applications Engineering.

7 

Table of Contents   

Craig E. Paylor  joined JLG in April 1983. Mr. Paylor has served as our Senior Vice President,
Marketing since August 1, 2006. From August 2005 until July 2006, he served as our Senior Vice
President, North America Sales, Marketing and Customer Support, prior to August 2005, he served as
our Senior Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Customer Support, and prior to 2002, he served as
our Senior Vice President, Sales and Market Development.

Phillip H. Rehbein  joined JLG in January 1997. Mr. Rehbein has served as our Senior Vice
President, Commercial Solutions Group since August 2005. Prior to August 2005, he served as our
Senior Vice President, Strategic Operations. From August 2002 until 2004, he served as our Senior
Vice President, Finance. From May 2002 to August 2002, he served as our Vice President, Finance.
Prior to May 2002, he served as Vice President and General Manager, Gradall, and prior to March
2001, as our Vice President, Finance.

Thomas D. Singer  joined JLG in May 1984. Mr. Singer has served as our Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary since 2001. Prior to 2001, he served as our Vice President, General
Counsel and Assistant Secretary.

All executive officers listed above are elected to hold office for one year or until their
successors are elected and qualified, and have been employed in the capacities noted for more than
five years, except as indicated. No family relationship exists among the above-named executive
officers.

Available Information 

We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the
Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
Act ). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC
maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can
obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

We maintain a website at www.jlg.com. We make available on our website under  Investor
Relations  SEC Documents,  free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material to the SEC.
Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report.

In November 2005, we submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the CEO certification required
by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

We wish to inform our investors of the following important factors that in some cases have
affected, and in the future could affect, our results of operations and that could cause such
future results of operations to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking
statements made by us or on our behalf. Disclosure of these factors is intended to permit us to
take advantage of the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. We have discussed many of these factors in prior SEC filings.

Our business is highly cyclical and seasonal, which could at times adversely affect our liquidity
and ability to borrow under our credit facilities.  

Historically, sales of our products have been subject to cyclical variations caused by changes
in general economic conditions. The demand for our products reflects the capital investment
decisions of our customers, which depend upon the general economic conditions of the markets that
our customers serve, including, particularly, the construction and industrial sectors of the North
American, European and developed Asian and Pacific Rim economies. During periods of expansion in
construction and industrial activity, we generally have benefited from increased demand for our
products. Conversely, downward economic cycles in construction and industrial activities

8 

Table of Contents   

result in
reductions in sales and pricing of our products, which may reduce our profits and cash flow. During
economic downturns, customers also tend to delay purchases of new products. In addition, our
business is highly seasonal with the majority of our sales occurring in the spring and summer
months, which constitute the traditional construction season. The cyclical and seasonal nature of
our business could at times adversely affect our liquidity and ability to borrow under our credit
facilities.

Our customer base is consolidated and a relatively small number of customers account for a majority
of our sales, the loss of which may adversely impact our revenues.  

Our principal customers are equipment rental companies that purchase our equipment and rent it
to end-users. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation among rental companies,
particularly in North America, which is our largest market. A limited number of these companies
account for a majority of our sales. Some of these large customers are burdened by substantial debt
and have limited liquidity, which may constrain their ability to purchase additional equipment and
may contribute to their decisions to significantly reduce future capital spending. Purchasing
patterns by some of these large customers also can be erratic with large volume purchases during
one period followed by periods of limited purchasing activity. Any substantial change in purchasing
decisions by one or more of our major customers, whether due to actions by our competitors,
customer
financial constraints or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition,
the limited number of customers has increased competition, in particular on the basis of pricing.
Finally, our ability to sell to rental companies is based in part on our status as a preferred
supplier. If we lose that status because of our products, service, pricing, delivery capabilities
or otherwise, our business may be materially and adversely affected.

We operate in a highly competitive industry, and there is no assurance that customers will continue
to regard our products favorably or that we will be able to continue to compete successfully.  

We compete in a highly competitive industry. To compete successfully, our products must excel
in terms of quality, price, breadth of product line, efficiency of use and maintenance costs,
safety and comfort, and we must also provide excellent customer service. The greater financial
resources of certain of our competitors and their ability to provide additional customer financing
or pricing discounts may put us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, the greater financial
resources or the lower amount of debt of certain of our competitors may enable them to commit
larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Certain competitors also may
have the ability to develop product or service innovations that could put us at a disadvantage. If
we are unable to compete successfully against other manufacturers of access equipment, we could
lose customers and our revenues may decline. There can also be no assurance that customers will
continue to regard our products favorably, that we will be able to develop new products that appeal
to customers, that we will be able to improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our
customers or that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the access equipment
segment.

Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to
supply shortages and price increases.  

In the manufacture of our products, we use large amounts of raw materials and processed inputs
including steel, engine components, copper and electronic controls. We obtain raw materials and
certain manufactured components from third-party suppliers. To reduce material costs and
inventories, we rely on supplier arrangements with preferred vendors as a source for  just-in-time 
delivery of many raw materials and manufactured components. Because we maintain limited raw
material and component inventories, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers,
including those due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired financial condition of
suppliers, weather emergencies or other natural disasters, may adversely affect our ability to
satisfy our customers on a timely basis and thereby affect our financial performance. This risk
increases as we continue to change our manufacturing model to more closely align production with
customer orders. In addition, market prices of some of the raw materials we use are volatile and
can increase rapidly. If we are not able to pass raw material or component price increases on to
our customers, our margins could be adversely affected. If any of these events occur, our financial
performance will be negatively impacted.

9 

Table of Contents   

We may experience credit losses in excess of our allowances and reserves for doubtful accounts,
finance and pledged finance receivables, notes receivable and guarantees of indebtedness of others.  

We evaluate the collectibility of open accounts, finance receivables, notes receivables and
our guarantees of indebtedness of others based on a combination of factors and establish reserves
based on our estimates of potential losses. In circumstances where we believe it is probable that a
specific customer will have difficulty meeting its financial obligations, a specific reserve is
recorded to reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount we expect to collect, and/or we
recognize a liability for a guarantee we expect to pay, taking into account any amounts that we
would anticipate realizing if we are forced to take action against the equipment that supports the
customer s financial obligations to us. We also establish additional reserves based upon our
perception of the quality of the current receivables, the current financial position of our
customers and past collections experience. The historical loss experience of our finance
receivables portfolio is limited, however, and therefore may not be indicative of future losses. We
also face a concentration of credit risk. As of July 31, 2006, approximately 10% of our trade
receivables were due from one customer and approximately 45% of our finance receivables were due
from three customers (including 17% from the same customer that accounts for 10% of our trade
receivables). If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate or we do not realize
the full amount of any anticipated proceeds from the sale of the equipment supporting our
customers  financial obligations to us, we may incur losses in excess of our reserves.

Our customers need financing to purchase our products, which exposes us to additional business and
credit risks.  

Availability and cost of financing are significant factors that affect demand for our
products. Many of our customers can purchase equipment only when financing is available at a
reasonable cost. Some customers arrange their own financing without assistance from us, but many of
our customers seek to purchase our equipment through one or more of the financing or credit support
programs that we offer. These include open account sales, installment sales, finance leases,
direct loans, guarantees, other investments, or other credit enhancements of financing provided to
our customers by third parties. Due to our size and capital constraints, we are not able to fund or
otherwise satisfy all credit requests by our customers. We rely principally on short-term open
accounts and our limited recourse third-party financing programs to meet these customers  financing
needs. These financing and credit support transactions expose us to credit risk, including the
risk of default by customers and any disparity between the cost and maturity of our funding sources
and the yield and maturity of financing that we provide to our customers. In addition, if we are
unable to provide financing to our customers, or otherwise induce third parties to satisfy customer
credit demands, we could lose sales and be unable to sustain our future business plan.

Our credit facilities impose operating and financial limitations that may inhibit our ability to
make capital expenditures, strategic investments and the violation of which may adversely impact
our capital resources.  

The covenants under our credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us.
These restrictions may under certain circumstances limit our ability, among other things, to:

incur additional indebtedness, including to make acquisitions; 

pay dividends or make other distributions; 

make investments or repurchase our stock; 

consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets; and 

enter into transactions with affiliates. 

In addition, our credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios. These
covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to
pursue available business opportunities. A breach of these covenants or our inability to maintain
the required financial ratios could result in a default on our indebtedness. If a default occurs,
the relevant lenders could declare any outstanding indebtedness,

10 

Table of Contents   

together with accrued interest and
other fees, to be immediately due and payable and could proceed against our assets that secure that
indebtedness.

Our warranty reserves may be insufficient to cover increased or unexpected warranty claims, which
could require the use of cash and short-term investments to cover such claims.  

We provide our customers a warranty covering workmanship and materials on products we
manufacture or remanufacture. Our warranty generally provides that our products will be free from
defects for periods ranging from 12 months to 60 months. If a product fails to comply with a
warranty, we may be obligated at our expense to correct any defect by repairing or replacing the
defective product. Although we maintain warranty reserves in amounts that we determine based on
amounts of products shipped and historical and anticipated claims, there can be no assurance that
future warranty claims will not exceed these reserves and materially adversely affect our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our products involve risks of personal injury and property damage, which expose us to potentially
significant liability.  

Our business exposes us to possible claims for personal injury or death and property damage
resulting from the use of equipment that we rent or sell. We maintain insurance through a
combination of self-insurance retentions and excess insurance coverage. We monitor claims and
potential claims of which we become aware and establish accrued liability reserves for the
self-insurance amounts based on our liability estimates for such claims. We cannot give any
assurance that existing or future claims will not exceed our estimates for self-insurance or the
amount of our excess insurance coverage. In addition, we cannot give any assurance that insurance
will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or that our insurers will not
require us to increase our self-insurance amounts.

Our success depends on our ability to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or
reduce costs.  

We are committed to continuous productivity improvement and continue to evaluate opportunities
to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and eliminate excess capacity. The ultimate
savings realized from these actions may be mitigated by many factors, including economic weakness,
competitive pressures, and decisions to increase costs in areas such as promotion or research and
development above levels that were otherwise assumed. Our failure to achieve projected levels of
efficiencies and cost reduction measures and to avoid delays in or unanticipated inefficiencies
resulting from manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in progress or contemplated
would adversely affect our results of operations.

If we are unable to successfully introduce new products and services, our revenues and market share
may be adversely impacted.  

Our business strategy includes the introduction of new products and services. Some of these
products or services may be introduced to compete with existing offerings from competing
businesses, while others may target new and unproven markets. We must make substantial expenditures
in order to introduce new products and services or to enter new markets. We cannot give any
assurance that our introduction of new products or services or entry into new markets will be
profitable or otherwise generate sufficient incremental revenues to recover the expenditures
necessary to launch such initiatives. Such initiatives also may expose us to other types of
regulation or liabilities than those to which our business is currently exposed.

We may face limitations on our ability to finance future acquisitions and integrate acquired
businesses.  

We intend to continue our strategy of identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary
products and services, which we believe will enhance our operations and profitability. We may pay
for future acquisitions from internally generated funds, bank borrowings, public or private debt or
equity securities offerings, or some combination of these methods. However, we may not be able to
find suitable businesses to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on
economically acceptable terms. In addition, we may not be able to raise the money necessary to
complete future acquisitions. In the event we are unable to complete future strategic acquisitions,
we may not grow in accordance with our expectations.

11 

Table of Contents   

In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate any business
we purchase into our existing business or that any acquired businesses will be profitable. The
successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and
cut excess costs. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial
attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired companies, which could
decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers and develop new
products and services. Our inability to complete the integration of new businesses in a timely
and orderly manner could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition. In addition, because we may pursue acquisitions both in the United States and abroad and
may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses,
complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining
operational and management oversight.

Failures of our infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our business.  

We are heavily dependent on our infrastructure. Significant problems with our infrastructure,
such as manufacturing failures, telephone or information technology (IT) system failure, computer
viruses or other third-party tampering with IT systems, could halt or delay manufacturing and
hinder our ability to ship in a timely manner or otherwise routinely conduct business. Any of these
events could result in the loss of customers, a decrease in revenue, or the incurrence of
significant costs to eliminate the problem or failure.

We have substantial international operations, the conduct of which subject us to risks that may
have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial performance.  

International operations represent a significant portion of our business. For fiscal years
2006, 2005 and 2004, we derived $610.7 million, $423.6 million and $270.3 million, respectively, of
our revenues from outside of the United States, representing 27%, 24% and 23% of our total
revenues, respectively. We expect revenues from international markets to continue to represent a
significant portion of our total revenues. Outside of the United States, we operate manufacturing
facilities in Belgium and France and 20 sales and services facilities elsewhere. We also sell
domestically manufactured products to international customers.

Our international operations are subject to a number of potential risks in addition to the
risks of our domestic operations. Such risks include, among others:

currency volatility and/or exchange controls; 

labor unrest; 

differing, and in many cases more stringent, labor regulations; 

differing protection of intellectual property; 

regional economic uncertainty; 

political instability; 

restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; 

export duties and quotas; 

domestic and international customs and tariffs; 

current and changing regulatory environments; 

difficulty in obtaining distribution support; 

difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; 

12 

Table of Contents   

differences in the availability and terms of financing; and 

potentially adverse tax consequences. 

These factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations, or on the ability of
our international operations to repatriate earnings to us, in the future.

Our strategy to expand our worldwide market share and decrease costs includes strengthening
our international distribution capabilities, by identifying and entering into joint venture and
distribution arrangements with local market participants, and sourcing basic components in other
countries, in particular in Europe. Implementation of this strategy may increase the impact of the
risks described above, and we cannot assure you that such risks will not have an adverse effect on
our business, results of operations or financial condition. We also cannot assure you that we will
be able to find suitable joint venture or other distribution partners, that we will be able to
enter into joint venture or distribution arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that any such
joint venture or distribution arrangement will be successful.

Currency fluctuations from our international sales may have an unpredictable impact on our
financial performance.  

Our products are sold in many countries around the world. Thus, a portion of our revenues is
generated in foreign currencies, including principally the Euro, the British pound, and the
Australian dollar, while costs incurred to generate those revenues are only partly incurred in the
same currencies. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in
currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to
have, an impact on our earnings. To reduce this currency exchange risk, we may buy protecting or
offsetting positions (known as  hedges ) in certain currencies to reduce the risk of adverse
currency exchange movements. Currency fluctuations may impact our financial performance in the
future.

Compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations could be costly and require us to
make significant expenditures.  

We generate hazardous and non-hazardous wastes in the normal course of our manufacturing and
service operations. As a result, we are subject to a wide range of federal, state, local and
foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern actions that may have
adverse environmental effects and also require compliance with certain practices when handling and
disposing of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. These laws and regulations also impose liability
for the cost of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up sites, past spills, disposals and other
releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. In addition, our operations are subject to other
laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety,
including those governing air emissions and water and wastewater discharges. Compliance with these
environmental laws and regulations requires us to make expenditures.

Despite our compliance efforts, risk of environmental liability is part of the nature of our
business. We cannot give any assurance that environmental liabilities, including compliance and
remediation costs, will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future. In addition,
acquisitions or other future events may lead to additional compliance or other costs that could
have a material adverse effect on our business.

We face risks related to an SEC inquiry.  

The SEC commenced an informal inquiry following our February 2004 announcement that we would
be restating our financial statements for the fiscal year and first quarter ended July 31, 2003 and
October 26, 2003, respectively. The financial restatement arose from our premature recognition in
July 2003 of $8.7 million in revenues from one transaction that upon re-examination we concluded
should have been recorded as a consignment sale, rather than a sale. This error reflected a
material weakness in our internal controls that we believe we have since corrected. We have been
advised by the staff of the SEC Enforcement Division that the inquiry relates to our accounting and
financial reporting as well as the transaction that was the subject of our restatement.

13 

Table of Contents   

We have been cooperating with the SEC staff, including by providing documents in response to a
May 2004 request for voluntary production. If the SEC takes further action, it may escalate the
informal inquiry into a formal investigation which may result in an enforcement action or other
legal proceedings against us and potentially members of our management. Responding to such actions
or proceedings could be costly and could divert the efforts and attention of our management team,
including senior officers. If any such action or proceeding is resolved unfavorably to us or any of
them, we or they could be subject to injunctions, fines and other penalties or sanctions, including
criminal sanctions, that could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial
performance, liquidity and future prospects and materially adversely affect the trading market and
price of our stock. Any unfavorable actions could also result in private civil actions, loss of key
personnel or other adverse consequences.

We are dependent on the management and leadership of Mr. Lasky and other key members of management,
the loss of whom could adversely impact our operations.  

We rely on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team led by William
M. Lasky, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Generally, these employees
(including Mr. Lasky) are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements. The unanticipated
loss of the services of Mr. Lasky or of other key personnel could have a significant, negative
impact on our business. Similarly, any difficulty in attracting, assimilating and retaining other
key management employees in the future could adversely affect our business.

We may be subject to unanticipated litigation, to which the resolution and response may require
significant expenditures and adversely impact our ability to conduct our business.  

We have occasionally been subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including those
with respect to intellectual property and shareholder litigation, which have involved significant
unbudgeted expenditures. The costs and other effects of any future, unanticipated legal or
administrative proceedings could be significant.

We may be subject to greater than anticipated tax liabilities.  

From time to time, we are subject to audits by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local
and non-US taxing authorities and these audits may result in substantial liabilities for taxes in
excess of those anticipated. For example, we have received notices of audit adjustments totaling
$7.1 million from the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue in connection primarily with royalty
deductions that we claimed on our Pennsylvania state income tax returns for our fiscal years 1999
through 2003. We believe that the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue has acted contrary to
applicable law, and we are disputing its position.

Catastrophic events may disrupt our business.  

Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health
issues, and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes or other adverse weather and climate
conditions, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt
the operations of our suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. These
events could reduce demand for our products and make it difficult or impossible for us to
manufacture our products, deliver products to customers, or to receive products from suppliers.

The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly
identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly
available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional
risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial
also may adversely impact our business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual
events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial
condition, and results of operations.

14 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 

The following table lists the principal manufacturing and office facilities and principal
products manufactured at each of the facilities:

Location  
       
      Size  
       
      Owned/Leased  
       
      Products  

New Equipment  

McConnellsburg, Pennsylvania

515,000 sq. ft.

Owned

Boom lifts, Telehandlers 

Shippensburg, Pennsylvania

320,000 sq. ft.

Owned

Boom lifts, Scissor lifts 

Bedford, Pennsylvania

133,000 sq. ft.

Owned

Vertical Mast lifts, Scissor Lifts, Trailer Boom Lifts 

LaVerne, California

20,000 sq. ft.

Leased

Trailers 

Maasmechelen, Belgium

80,000 sq. ft.

Leased

Boom lifts, Scissor lifts, Telehandlers 

Orrville, Ohio

332,000 sq. ft.

Owned

Telehandler and Boom lift Subassemblies 

Oakes, North Dakota

78,000 sq. ft.

Leased

Telehandler Subassemblies 

Tonneins, France

38,000 sq. ft.

Owned

Vertical Mast lifts 

Tonneins, France

63,000 sq. ft.

Leased

Vertical Mast lifts 

Used Equipment  

McConnellsburg, Pennsylvania

45,000 sq. ft.

Owned

After-sales service and support 

McConnellsburg, Pennsylvania

27,000 sq. ft.

Leased

After-sales service and support 

Port Macquarie, Australia

25,000 sq. ft.

Owned

After-sales service and support 

Tonneins, France

29,000 sq. ft.

Leased

After-sales service and support 

Houston, Texas

72,000 sq. ft.

Leased

After-sales service and support 

Kennesaw, Georgia

43,000 sq. ft.

Leased

After-sales service and support 

We also lease executive offices in Hagerstown, Maryland and a 270,000-square-foot former
OmniQuip manufacturing location in Port Washington, Wisconsin, which is an office location for
telehandler engineering and other support functions. In addition, a number of small distribution,
administration or service facilities are also leased throughout the world.

The Orrville, Ohio facility is also the North American Parts Distribution facility. We own a
75,000-square-foot facility in Bedford, Pennsylvania, which we have temporarily idled.

Included in the February 3, 2006 sale of all of the assets pertaining to our line of Gradall
excavators to AGI was the 430,000 square foot manufacturing facility in New Philadelphia, Ohio.

Our McConnellsburg and Bedford, Pennsylvania facilities are encumbered as security for
long-term borrowings.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

On February 27, 2004, we announced that the SEC had begun an informal inquiry relating to
accounting and financial reporting following our February 18, 2004 announcement that we would be
restating our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2003 and for the
first fiscal quarter ended October 26, 2003. The notification advised that the existence of the
inquiry should not be construed as an expression or opinion of the SEC that any violation of law
has occurred, nor should it reflect adversely on the character or reliability of any person or
entity or on the merits of our securities. We continue to cooperate with any requests for
information from the SEC related to the informal inquiry.

15 

Table of Contents   

We make provisions relating to probable product liability claims. For information related to
product liability claims, see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of
Part II and the discussion in Part I, Item 1 of this report.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

None.

PART II 

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES
OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

Our capital stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol JLG. The table
below sets forth the high and low closing prices and average shares traded daily during the quarter
for the past two fiscal years.

Our quarterly cash dividend rate is currently $.005 per share, or $.02 on an annual basis.
Our Board of Directors considers the payment of cash dividends on a quarterly basis.

On February 23, 2006, we increased the quarterly dividend rate to $0.01 ($.005 post split) per
common share and announced a two-for-one stock split of our common stock. The cash dividend was
paid on March 20, 2006 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 6, 2006. The
stock split shares were distributed on March 27, 2006 to shareholders of record on March 13, 2006.
In connection with the two-for-one split of our capital stock, our Board of Directors approved an
Amendment to our Articles of Incorporation (the  Articles of Incorporation ), which became
effective March 23, 2006, that increased the number of shares of capital stock authorized under the
Articles of Incorporation to 200,000,000 shares from 100,000,000 shares.

As of September 15, 2006, there were 1,476 shareholders of record of our capital stock and
approximately 18,500 shareholders in street names.

The 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Corporation is scheduled to be held on November
16, 2006, at 9:00 a.m. at our headquarters in McConnellsburg, Pennsylvania.

For tabular information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation
plans, see Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this
report.

16 

Table of Contents   

The following table presents information with respect to purchases of our common stock
made during the three months ended July 31, 2006 by us, as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the
Exchange Act.

1   
       
      The total number of shares purchased represents shares
surrendered to us to satisfy minimum tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of
restricted stock issued to employees.  

We have not made any unregistered sales of our securities during the three months ended July
31, 2006.

17 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

SIX-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY 

(in millions of dollars, except per share data and number of employees) 

This summary should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7, Part II of this report. All share and per
share data have been adjusted for the two-for-one stock split effective March 27, 2006. Results for
fiscal 2006 included a gain of $14.6 million related to the sale of the Gradall excavator product
line. Amounts subsequent to fiscal 2003 reflect the acquisitions of OmniQuip in August 2003 and
Delta in April 2004. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in fiscal 2002
represents a goodwill impairment charge. 

18 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

This Management s Discussion and Analysis contains forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are
identified by words such as  may,   believes,   expects,   plans  and similar terminology. These
statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking
statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: (i)
general economic and market conditions, including political and economic uncertainty in areas of
the world where we do business; (ii) varying and seasonal levels of demand for our products and
services; (iii) risks associated with acquisitions; (iv) credit risks from our financing of
customer purchases; (v) risks arising from dependence on third-party suppliers; and (vi) costs of
raw materials and energy, as well as other risks as described in Item 1A of Part I of this report.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as
a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable laws.

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial
statements and the notes thereto found under Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8,
Part II of this report.

OVERVIEW 

We currently operate through four business segments: North American Distribution, European
Distribution, Rest of World Distribution and Access Financial Solutions. Our North American
Distribution, European Distribution and Rest of World Distribution segments design, manufacture and
sell aerial work platforms, telehandlers and trailers, as well as an array of complementary
accessories that increase the versatility and efficiency of these products for end-users. In
addition, these segments provide after-sales service and support for our installed base of
equipment, including parts sales and equipment rentals, and sell used and remanufactured or
reconditioned equipment. Until February 2006, when we sold the product line, our results included
the manufacture and sale of telescopic hydraulic excavators. Our Access Financial Solutions segment
arranges equipment financing and leasing solutions for our customers primarily through third party
financial institutions and provides credit support in connection with those financing and lease
arrangements. We sell our products on a global basis to equipment rental companies, construction
contractors, manufacturing companies, home improvement centers, the U.S. military, state and local
municipalities and equipment distributors that resell our equipment. Approximately 60% of our new
equipment sales during fiscal 2004, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 were to equipment rental companies.

Demand for our equipment, parts and services is cyclical and seasonal. Factors that influence
the demand for our equipment include the level of economic activity in our principal markets, North
America, Europe, Australia and Latin America, particularly as it affects the level of commercial
and other non-residential construction activity, prevailing rental rates for the type of equipment
we manufacture, the age and utilization rates of the equipment in our rental company customers 
fleets relative to the equipment s useful life and the cost and availability of financing for our
equipment. These factors affect demand for our new and remanufactured or reconditioned equipment as
well as our services that support our customers  installed base of equipment. Demand for our
equipment is generally strongest during the spring and summer months, and we have historically
recorded higher revenues and profits in our fiscal third and fourth quarters relative to our fiscal
first and second quarters.

On October 27, 2005, we entered into a 20-year strategic alliance with Caterpillar Inc.
( Caterpillar ) to design and produce a full line of Caterpillar-branded telehandler products
exclusively for Caterpillar dealers. This alliance established separate deadlines in different
geographic markets for the transition of telehandler manufacturing and selling responsibility from
Caterpillar to us. This transition is proceeding on schedule, and we began shipping to European
Caterpillar dealers in July 2006 and will begin shipping telehandlers to North American Caterpillar
dealers in November 2006.

On February 3, 2006, we sold substantially all of the assets pertaining to our line of Gradall
excavators to Alamo Group Inc. ( AGI ) for cash consideration of $33.0 million. The sale included
the 430,000 square foot manufacturing facility in New Philadelphia, Ohio and related equipment,
machinery, tooling, and intellectual property. The Gradall excavator product line included crawler
and wheeled models. In addition to the purchase

  19 

Table of Contents   

agreement, we executed a six-month transition
supply agreement with AGI covering components for our telescopic
material handler product lines that at closing were manufactured at the New Philadelphia
facility. The sale of our line of Gradall excavators resulted in a one-time pre-tax gain of $14.6
million in our third quarter of fiscal 2006.

Fiscal 2006 results significantly outpaced fiscal 2005. Driven by continued strong demand
across most of our product lines and in all regions throughout the world in which we have
operations, our revenues reached $2.3 billion, the highest in our 37-year history. These record
revenues reflect a 32.0% increase over fiscal 2005 and a three-year annualized compound growth rate
of 45%. Fiscal 2006 revenues in the U.S. increased 28.0% and international revenues rose 44.2%,
including a 54.7% increase in European sales compared to fiscal 2005.

Our operating profit for fiscal 2006 of $263.0 million represents a 118.7% increase over
fiscal 2005. Our operating profit included a gain of $14.6 million from the sale of our Gradall
excavator product line and $22 million of expenses associated with our strategic initiatives,
discussed below, in fiscal 2006 and OmniQuip integration expenses of $6.3 million in fiscal 2005.
The operating profit margin also improved to 11.5% from the fiscal 2005 level of 6.9%. Net income
more than doubled to $149.3 million, or $1.40 per diluted share, compared to $57.2 million, or
$0.60 per diluted share, during fiscal 2005. We delivered this strong financial performance while
executing the largest manufacturing realignment and capacity expansion in our history.

Our strong financial performance strengthened our balance sheet. We ended fiscal 2006 with a
$328.1 million balance of cash and cash equivalents compared to a balance of $223.6 million at the
end of fiscal 2005. Despite the surge in revenues in fiscal 2006, we reduced trade receivable days
sales outstanding to 51 from 57 in fiscal 2005 while inventory turns held steady at 7.6.

In the discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations that follows,
we attempt to list contributing factors in order of significance to the point being addressed.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

We reported net income of $149.3 million, or $1.40 per share on a diluted basis, for fiscal
2006 compared to net income of $57.2 million, or $0.60 per share on a diluted basis, for fiscal
2005, and net income of $26.6 million, or $0.30 per share on a diluted basis, for fiscal 2004.
Earnings before taxes for fiscal 2006 included a gain of $14.6 million from the sale of our Gradall
excavator product line, costs of $1.9 million associated with the early retirement of debt and
unfavorable currency adjustments of $2.8 million compared to favorable currency adjustments of $5.8
million and net costs of $6.5 million associated with the early retirement of debt for fiscal 2005
and unfavorable currency adjustments of $2.3 million for fiscal 2004.

For fiscal 2006, our revenues were $2.3 billion, up 32.0% from $1.7 billion for fiscal 2005,
which were up 45.3% from the $1.2 billion reported for fiscal 2004.

20 

Table of Contents   

The following tables outline our revenues by segment, product, and geographic region (in
millions) for the years ended July 31:

(a)  
       
      Revenues by segment and geographic region are not the same since revenues for Access
Financial Solutions are included in the United States and Europe as well as revenues from
sales in Canada being included in Other.  

(b)  
       
      Revenues for Access Financial Solutions and for financial products are not the same
because Access Financial Solutions also receives revenues from rental purchase agreements
that are recorded for accounting purposes as rental revenues from operating leases.  

Results for Fiscal 2006 and 2005 

The 28.2% increase in North American Distribution segment revenues from $1.3 billion for
fiscal 2005 to $1.7 billion for fiscal 2006 reflected strong growth in sales of telehandlers and
aerial work platforms, as the primary drivers of equipment demand, commercial and non-residential
construction and solid economic activity, continued to be strong during fiscal 2006. Fleet age,
rental rates and utilization of our type of equipment continue to drive demand in most product
lines as rental companies maintain their strong pace of equipment refreshment and expansion. In
addition, our service parts sales increased as a result of increased utilization of our customers 
fleet equipment, as did our rebuilt equipment sales to the military as a result of new contracts
entered into during fiscal 2006. Partially offsetting the increase in North American Distribution
segment revenues were decreases in sales of excavators and excavator service parts as a result of
the sale of this product line early in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and a decrease in sales
from our rental fleet.

The 55.7% increase in European Distribution segment revenues from $261.6 million for fiscal
2005 to $407.2 million for fiscal 2006 reflected strong growth in sales of aerial work platforms
and telehandlers as a result of improved market conditions and increased sales from our rental
fleet primarily due to a $30.0 million sale during the third quarter of fiscal 2006 to one
customer.

21 

Table of Contents   

The 28.3% increase in Rest of World Distribution segment revenues from $130.0 million for
fiscal 2005 to $166.8 million for fiscal 2006 reflected strong growth in sales of aerial work
platforms, telehandlers and parts in all
regions, partially offset by a decrease in sales of excavators as a result of the sale of this
product line early in the third quarter of fiscal 2006.

The 17.1% decrease in Access Financial Solutions segment revenues from $13.8 million for
fiscal 2005 to $11.4 million for fiscal 2006 was principally attributable to transitioning
customers to our  private label  limited recourse financing arrangements originated through finance
companies and to an early payoff of a financed receivable, partially offset by an increase in
revenues from our  private label  limited recourse financing solutions through program agreements
with third-party funding providers. While we experienced decreased interest income attributable to
our pledged finance receivables, we also experienced a corresponding decrease in our limited
recourse debt. This resulted in $3.1 million less of interest income being passed on to
monetization purchasers in the form of interest expense on limited recourse debt. In accordance
with the required accounting treatment, the interest portion of the payments to monetization
purchasers is reflected as interest expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income.

Our gross profit margin increased to 19.4% in fiscal 2006 from 16.6% in fiscal 2005

The gross profit margin of our North American Distribution segment was 18.4% for fiscal 2006
compared to 13.7% for fiscal 2005. The increase in fiscal 2006 was primarily due the favorable
impact of the price increases and surcharges that were implemented throughout fiscal 2005 to offset
the increase in commodities, especially steel, our cost reduction activities, a favorable sales
mix, including an increase in our service parts sales, improved margins on used equipment sales,
reflecting increased demand for used equipment, and a favorable one-time adjustment for inbound
freight costs related to a change in costing methodology. Partially offsetting these effects were
the impact of rising energy prices, which continue to drive up the cost of freight and
petroleum-based components, and expenses related to the integration of the Caterpillar telehandler
product line.

The gross profit margin of our European Distribution segment was 17.5% for fiscal 2006
compared to 20.1% for fiscal 2005. The decrease in fiscal 2006 was primarily due to the higher
standard cost on machinery shipped from the U.S., a less favorable product and customer mix and the
unfavorable impact of currency, partially offset by the favorable impact of the price increases and
surcharges that were implemented throughout fiscal 2005 to offset the increase in commodities. The
standard cost on machinery shipped from the U.S. during fiscal 2006 included the increased cost of
commodities, which were not included in the fiscal 2005 standard cost.

The gross profit margin of our Rest of World Distribution segment was 28.5% for fiscal 2006
compared to 30.9% for fiscal 2005. The decrease in fiscal 2006 was primarily due to the higher
standard cost on machinery shipped from the U.S. and a less favorable product mix, partially offset
by the favorable impact of the price increases and surcharges that were implemented throughout
fiscal 2005 to offset the increase in commodities. The standard cost on machinery shipped from the
U.S. during fiscal 2006 included the increased cost of commodities, which were not included in the
fiscal 2005 standard cost.

The gross profit margin of our Access Financial Solutions segment was 98.5% for fiscal 2006
compared to 93.8% for fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily due to an increase in limited
recourse financing as a percentage of total segment revenues. The gross margins are typically
higher in this segment since the costs associated with revenues are principally selling and
administrative expenses and interest expense.

22 

Table of Contents   

Our selling, administrative and product development expenses increased $27.6 million in fiscal
2006 compared to fiscal 2005, but as a percentage of revenues decreased to 8.5% for fiscal 2006
compared to 9.6% for fiscal 2005. The following table summarizes the changes by category in
selling, administrative and product development expenses for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005
(in millions):

Our North American Distribution segment s selling, administrative and product development
expenses increased $6.1 million in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due primarily to our
strategic initiatives discussed below, which include the integration of the Caterpillar telehandler
product line, increased consulting and legal costs associated with the outsourcing of research and
development projects and ordinary business activities, our increased profitability, additional
employees and normal merit compensation increases, resulting in higher bonus expense and higher
payroll and related benefit costs including our discretionary profit sharing contribution and
401(k) plan expense, partially offset by a decrease in expenses associated with the Gradall
excavator product line and a decrease in costs related to advertising and trade shows.

Our European Distribution segment s selling, administrative and product development expenses
increased $1.2 million in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due primarily to increased costs
related to advertising and trade shows and expenses related to the integration of the Caterpillar
product line, partially offset by a decrease in our bad debt provision.

Our Rest of World Distribution segment s selling, administrative and product development
expenses increased $0.4 million in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due primarily to our
increased profitability, additional employees and normal merit compensation increases, resulting in
higher bonus expense and higher payroll and related benefit costs and increased costs related to
advertising and trade shows.

Our Access Financial Solutions segment s selling and administrative expenses increased $1.1
million in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due primarily to an increase in our bad debt
provision.

Our general corporate selling, administrative and product development expenses increased $18.8
million in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due primarily to our increased profitability,
additional employees and normal merit compensation increases, resulting in higher bonus expense and
higher payroll and related benefit costs including our discretionary profit sharing contribution
and 401(k) plan expense, the expensing of stock options, which began during the first quarter of
fiscal 2006, our strategic initiatives discussed below and increased consulting and legal costs
associated with ordinary business activities. Partially offsetting these effects was the absence
of costs associated with the accelerated vesting of restricted share awards during fiscal 2005
triggered by our share price appreciation.

The decrease in interest expense (net of interest income) of $10.9 million for fiscal 2006
compared to fiscal 2005 was primarily due to an increase in interest income of $6.0 million
resulting from our increased cash balance and rising interest rates, and a decrease in interest
expense of $4.9 million. The decrease in interest expense was primarily a result of a decrease in
our limited recourse debt associated with our limited recourse and non-recourse monetizations and
the early retirement of $76.3 million of principal amount of our outstanding 8 3/8% Senior
Subordinated Notes due 2012 (the  2012 Notes ) and of our outstanding outstanding 8 1/4% Senior
Unsecured Notes due 2008 (the  2008 Notes ) during fiscal 2005 and $20.4 million of principal
amount of our outstanding 2008 Notes during fiscal 2006. Partially offsetting the decrease in
interest expense was an adjustment to the interest associated with the hedging of our fixed rate
debt. Interest expense associated with our finance receivables monetizations was $3.1 million in
fiscal 2006 compared to $6.2 million in fiscal 2005.

23 

Table of Contents   

Our miscellaneous income (expense) category included currency losses of $2.8 million in fiscal
2006 compared to currency gains of $5.8 million in fiscal 2005. In addition, our miscellaneous income (expense) category for fiscal 2006 and fiscal
2005 included $1.1 million and $6.0 million, respectively, of costs associated with the early
retirement of debt. The change in currency for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 was primarily
due to the currency effect on our hedging positions as the U.S. dollar weakened significantly
against the Euro, the British pound and the Australian dollar during fiscal 2006.

We enter into certain foreign currency contracts; principally forward contracts, to manage
some of our foreign exchange risk. Some natural hedges are also used to mitigate transaction and
forecasted exposures. Through our foreign currency hedging activities, we seek primarily to
minimize the risk that cash flows resulting from the sales of our products will be affected by
changes in exchange rates. We do not designate our forward exchange contracts as hedges under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities,  and as a result we recognize the mark-to-market gain or loss
on these contracts in earnings.

For additional information related to our derivative instruments, see Item 7A of Part II of
this report and Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this
report.

Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2006 was 38% as compared to 39% in fiscal 2005. Our effective
tax rate for fiscal 2006 was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to providing for tax
contingencies related to potential adverse tax adjustments, partially offset by a favorable source
of earnings among taxing jurisdictions. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for fiscal 2007
will be 39%.

Results for Fiscal 2005 and 2004 

The 42.8% increase in North American Distribution segment revenues from $930.8 million for
fiscal 2004 to $1.3 billion for fiscal 2005 reflected strong growth in all product lines, primarily
resulting from general economic growth in North America, reflecting positive trends in construction
spending, capacity utilization and consumer confidence and from improved market conditions and
increased demand for used equipment.

The 47.5% increase in European Distribution segment revenues from $177.4 million for fiscal
2004 to $261.6 million for fiscal 2005 reflected strong growth in sales of aerial work platforms,
service parts and telehandlers due to the growth in the European economy. Partially offsetting the
increase in sales was a decrease in sales of used equipment.

The 86.0% increase in Rest of World Distribution segment revenues from $69.9 million for
fiscal 2004 to $130.0 million for fiscal 2005 reflected growth in all product lines, primarily
resulting from higher demand in Australia due to increased spending on public and private
infrastructure and from increased demand in the Pacific Rim and Latin America markets as a result
of improved economic conditions.

The 13.5% decrease in Access Financial Solutions segment revenues from $15.9 million for
fiscal 2004 to $13.8 million for fiscal 2005 was principally attributable to a decrease in our
portfolio as we continued to transition customers to our limited recourse financing arrangements
originated through  private label  finance companies. While we experienced decreased interest
income attributable to our pledged finance receivables, we also experienced a corresponding
decrease in our limited recourse debt. This resulted in $3.9 million less of interest income being
passed on to monetization purchasers in the form of interest expense on limited recourse debt.

Our gross profit margin decreased to 16.6% in fiscal 2005 from 18.9% in fiscal 2004

The gross profit margin of our North American Distribution segment was 13.7% for fiscal 2005
compared to 17.1% for fiscal 2004. The decrease in fiscal 2005 was primarily due to an increase in
market prices of raw materials, such as steel and energy, continued manufacturing inefficiencies
resulting from capacity constraints in our supplier base, a less favorable product mix and lower
margins on service parts sales. The decrease in our gross profit margin was partially offset by the
higher sales volume during fiscal 2005, price increases and surcharges, cost reductions,
productivity improvements, lower OmniQuip integration expenses and improved margins on used
equipment sales reflecting increased demand for used equipment.

24 

Table of Contents   

The gross profit margin of our European Distribution segment was 20.1% for fiscal 2005
compared to 16.5% for fiscal 2004. The increase in fiscal 2005 was primarily due to a favorable
product mix, improved margins on used equipment sales and the favorable impact of currency,
partially offset by an increase in market prices of raw materials, such as steel and energy.

The gross profit margin of our Rest of World Distribution segment was 30.9% for fiscal 2005
compared to 30.8% for fiscal 2004.

The gross profit margin of our Access Financial Solutions segment was 93.8% for fiscal 2005
compared to 95.9% for fiscal 2004. The decrease in fiscal 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in
financial product revenues as we continue to transition customers to our limited recourse
arrangements originated through  private label  finance companies. Because the costs associated
with these revenues are principally selling and administrative expenses and interest expense, gross
margins are typically higher in this segment.

Our selling, administrative and product development expenses increased $17.5 million in fiscal
2005 compared to fiscal 2004, but as a percentage of revenues decreased to 9.6% for fiscal 2005
compared to 12.5% for fiscal 2004. The following table summarizes the changes by category in
selling, administrative and product development expenses for fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004
(in millions):

Salaries and related benefits

$ 
     5.4 

Bonus expense

3.9 

Advertising and trade shows

3.2 

Incremental expenses from Delta operations

2.9 

Consulting and legal costs

2.2 

Depreciation and amortization expense

1.6 

Product development expenses

1.4 

ServicePlus operations

1.4 

Utilities

1.1 

Pension and other postretirement benefit costs

(1.1 
     ) 

OmniQuip integration expenses

(4.2 
     ) 

Bad debt provisions

(4.6 
     ) 

Other

4.3 

$ 
     17.5 

Our North American Distribution segment s selling, administrative and product development
expenses increased $0.5 million in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 due primarily to an increase
in costs related to advertising and trade shows, expenses associated with our ServicePlus
operations, which we launched during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, an increase in product
development expenses related to our aerial work platforms and telehandler products, and an increase
in our utilities expense. Partially offsetting these effects were decreases in OmniQuip
integration expenses and pension and other postretirement benefit costs.

Our European Distribution segment s selling, administrative and product development expenses
increased $5.6 million in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 due primarily to expenses associated
with our Delta operations, higher payroll and related benefit costs as a result of additional
employees and normal merit compensation increases, increased depreciation and amortization expense,
increased consulting and legal costs associated with ordinary business activities, and an increase
in bonus expense primarily due to our increased profitability. Partially offsetting these effects
was a decrease in our bad debt provision primarily as a result of specific reserves incurred during
the prior year.

Our Rest of World Distribution segment s selling, administrative and product development
expenses increased $1.4 million in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 due primarily to higher
payroll and related benefit costs as a result of additional employees and normal merit compensation
increases and an increase in outside sales commissions as a result of the sales volume increase.

Our Access Financial Solutions segment s selling and administrative expenses decreased $0.5
million in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 due primarily to a decrease in bad debt provisions
as a result of the lower

25 

Table of Contents   

reserve needed because of the decrease in outstanding pledged finance
receivables. Partially offsetting this decrease
were higher payroll and related benefit costs as a result of additional employees and normal
merit compensation increases.

Our general corporate selling, administrative and product development expenses increased $10.5
million in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 due primarily to higher payroll and related benefit
expense as a result of additional employees and normal merit compensation increases, increased
bonus expense primarily due to our increased profitability offset in part by a reclassification
between segments, increased consulting and legal costs associated with ordinary business
activities, an increase in our bad debt provision and an increase in pension and other
postretirement benefit costs.

The decrease in interest expense (net of interest income) of $6.8 million for fiscal 2005
compared to fiscal 2004 was primarily due to decreased interest expense of $5.9 million associated
with our limited recourse and non-recourse monetizations as a result of a decrease in our limited
recourse debt and the early retirement of $61.3 million in principal amount of our outstanding 2012
Notes and $15.0 million principal amount of our outstanding 2008 Notes during the third and fourth
quarters of fiscal 2005, and a $0.9 million increase in interest income. Interest expense
associated with our finance receivables monetizations was $6.2 million in fiscal 2005 compared to
$10.1 million in fiscal 2004.

Our
miscellaneous income (expense) category included currency gains of
$5.8 million in fiscal 2005 compared to currency losses of $2.3 million
in fiscal 2004. In addition, our miscellaneous income (expense)
category for fiscal 2005 included $6.0 million of costs associated
with the early retirement of debt. The change in currency for fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 was primarily attributable to
favorable realized currency gains during the year resulting from the weaker U.S. dollar against the
Euro, British pound and the Australian dollar, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of
realized and unrealized forward exchange contracts.

Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2005 was 39% as compared to 36% in fiscal 2004. Our effective
tax rate for fiscal 2005 was higher than the statutory rate principally due to non-deductible
compensation related to the accelerated vesting of restricted stock awards triggered by our share
price appreciation and foreign valuation allowances.

FINANCIAL CONDITION 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Cash Flow From Operating Activities 

Cash generated from operating activities was $118.8 million for fiscal 2006 compared to $142.4
million in fiscal 2005 and $14.7 million in fiscal 2004. The decrease in cash from operations for
fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 primarily resulted from higher inventory levels to support the
increased business activity; the change in accounts payable resulting from a decrease in our days
payables outstanding; a larger increase in our accounts receivable balance at the end of fiscal
2006 compared to fiscal 2005 as a result of our $118.1 million increase in sales during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2006; an increase in our notes receivable and other investments during fiscal
2006 compared to a reduction during fiscal 2005; an increase in the payments of sales rebates as a
result of our higher sales volume and a decrease in the value of our forward exchange contracts.
Partially offsetting the decreases were increases in our net income and accrued taxes due to our
increased profitability. The increase in cash generated from operations in fiscal 2005 resulted
primarily from a smaller increase in trade receivables as compared to fiscal 2004 which was
attributable to stronger collections; an increase in our net income; and an increase in accounts
payable due to higher production levels as a result of the increase in demand for our products,
partially offset by higher inventory levels to support the increased business activity and
inefficiencies associated with component shortages. Stronger collections were principally from the
results of an initiative under our Six Sigma program focused on improving collection processes and
procedures.

26 

Table of Contents   

Cash Flow Used For Investing Activities 

We used cash of $38.8 million for investment purposes during fiscal 2006 compared to $10.3
million during fiscal 2005 and $114.9 million during fiscal 2004. Our increase in the use of cash
for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 was principally due to the acquisition of Caterpillar
telehandler assets (certain equipment, inventory and substantially all of the tooling and intellectual
property) and an increase in capital expenditures as a result of our strategic initiatives
discussed below. Partially offsetting the increase in cash usage were proceeds received from the
sale of our excavator product line assets during fiscal 2006. The reduction in cash used for
investing activities for
fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 was principally due to the absence of an acquisition in
fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2004, we acquired OmniQuip for $107.1 million.

Cash Flow From Financing Activities 

We had cash flows from financing activities of $25.9 million for fiscal 2006 compared to $61.7
million for fiscal 2005 and $4.8 million for fiscal 2004. The decrease in cash from financing
activities for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 was largely attributable to net proceeds from
the issuance of common stock in fiscal 2005 that was not repeated in fiscal 2006, partially offset
by a lower amount of debt repurchases and the increase in excess tax benefits from stock-based
compensation. The increase in cash from financing activities for fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal
2004 was largely attributable to our net proceeds from the issuance of common stock and from the
exercise of stock options during fiscal 2005. Partially offsetting the increase in cash provided
by financing activities was the repurchase of $15.0 million in principal amount of our outstanding
2008 Notes, the repurchase of $61.3 million in principal amount of our outstanding 2012 Notes and
the absence of monetizations of our finance receivables during fiscal 2005 compared to $14.0
million of monetizations during fiscal 2004.

Due to the seasonality of our sales, during certain periods we may generate negative cash
flows from operations despite reporting profits. Generally, this may occur in periods in which we
are building inventory levels in anticipation of sales during peak periods as well as other uses of
working capital related to payment terms associated with trade receivables or other sale
arrangements.

We expect that our principal sources of liquidity for fiscal 2007 will be existing cash
balances, cash generated from operations and borrowings under our credit facilities. Availability
of funds under our credit facilities and monetizations of finance receivables depend on a variety
of factors described below. As of July 31, 2006, we had cash balances totaling $328.1 million and
unused credit commitments totaling $202.5 million.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS  

The following table provides a summary of our contractual obligations (in millions) at July
31, 2006:

(a)  
       
      Includes our 2008 Notes, 2012 Notes, a $10.0 million five-year loan and a $5.0 million
promissory note as more fully described in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report and associated estimated interest expense
payments.  

(b)  
       
      Our limited recourse debt is the result of the sale of finance receivables through limited
recourse monetization transactions.  

(c)  
       
      In accordance with SFAS No. 13,  Accounting for Leases,  operating lease obligations are not
reflected in the balance sheet.  

27 

Table of Contents   

(d)  
       
      We enter into contractual arrangements that result in our obligation to make future payments,
including purchase obligations. We enter into these arrangements in the ordinary course of
business in order to ensure adequate levels of inventories, machinery and equipment, or
services. Purchase obligations primarily consist of inventory purchase commitments, including
raw materials, components and sourced products.  

(e) 
       
      We anticipate that our funding obligation for our pension and postretirement benefit plans in
fiscal 2007 will approximate $1.9 million. That amount principally represents contributions
either required by regulations or laws or, with respect to unfunded plans, necessary to fund
current benefits. We have not presented estimated
pension and postretirement funding in the table above as the funding can vary from year to year
based upon changes in the fair value of the plan assets and actuarial assumptions.  

The following table provides a summary of our other commercial commitments (in millions) at
July 31, 2006:

(a)  
       
      We discuss our guarantee agreements in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report.  

As discussed in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II
of this report, we are a party to multiple agreements whereby we guarantee $87.3 million in
indebtedness of others. In connection with our customer financing activities, guarantees comprise
one of the financing or credit support programs that we offer to certain of our customers. These
guarantees arise from those customer financing activities. If the financial condition of these
customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments,
additional allowances would be required. Also as discussed in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, our future results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be
affected to the extent that our ultimate exposure with respect to product liability varies from
current estimates. Also as discussed in Note 14 and in Item 3 of Part I of this report, pending
legal proceedings and other contingencies have the potential to adversely affect our financial
condition or liquidity.

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES  

On October 27, 2005, we entered into a 20-year strategic Alliance with Caterpillar related to
the design, manufacture and sale by us of Caterpillar branded telehandlers. The Alliance
establishes separate dates in different geographic markets for the transition of telehandler
manufacturing and selling responsibility from Caterpillar to us ranging from July 1 to November 1,
2006. As part of the Alliance, we acquired certain equipment, inventory and substantially all of
the tooling and intellectual property used by Caterpillar exclusively in connection with the design
and manufacture of Caterpillar s current European telehandler products. The purchase price for
these Caterpillar telehandler assets was $46.4 million paid at closing, plus $5.0 million that was
paid on September 15, 2006.

Our strategic initiatives for fiscal 2006 included the development of the North American
Caterpillar telehandler product line and capacity improvements in both Belgium and Pennsylvania to
accommodate the additional volume, for the expansion of our ServicePlus operations, formation of
our Commercial Solutions Group, reopening of the Bedford, Pennsylvania and Orrville, Ohio
facilities, All-Terrain Lifter, Army System ( ATLAS ) II military telehandler development and other
proprietary projects. As a result of these strategic initiatives, approximately $22 million was
expensed during fiscal 2006, a reduction of approximately $4 million from our previous estimate
largely as a result of a reduction in expenses related to the integration of the Caterpillar
telehandler product line.

28 

Table of Contents   

For fiscal 2006, we incurred capital expenditures of approximately $25.5 million in property,
plant and equipment, which included capital investments in the strategic initiatives described
above. This is a reduction of approximately $15.5 million from our previous estimate largely as a
result of rental fleet sales exceeding rental fleet purchases by approximately $7.1 million for
fiscal 2006 and the timing of the expenditures related to the Caterpillar telehandler product line.
Included in the total, is the $10.8 million in capital
expenditures associated with the Caterpillar Alliance. For fiscal 2007, we anticipate incurring capital expenditures of $80 million
in property, plant and equipment, which includes net rental fleet purchases of approximately $30
million.

On February 3, 2006, we sold substantially all of the assets pertaining to our line of Gradall
excavators to AGI for cash consideration of $33.0 million. The sale included the 430,000 square
foot manufacturing facility in New Philadelphia, Ohio and related equipment, machinery, tooling,
and intellectual property. The Gradall excavator
product line included crawler and wheeled models. In addition to the purchase agreement, we
executed a transition supply agreement with AGI covering components for our telescopic material
handler product lines that at closing were manufactured at the New Philadelphia facility.

On April 30, 2004, we completed the purchase of Delta for $9.9 million, which included
transaction expenses of $0.9 million. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
Item 8 of Part II of this report. Headquartered in Tonneins, France, Delta has two facilities that
manufacture the Toucan brand of vertical mast lifts, and a line of aerial work platforms
distributed throughout Europe for use principally in industrial and maintenance operations. In
addition, we purchased certain intellectual property and related assets of Manitowoc s discontinued
product lines, which  permitted us to re-launch selected Liftlux models. We funded the purchase
price with cash generated from operations.

On August 1, 2003, we completed the OmniQuip acquisition, which includes all operations
relating to the SkyTrak and Lull brand telehandler products. See Note 2 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report. The purchase price was $100.0
million, with $90.0 million paid in cash at closing and $10.0 million paid in the form of an
unsecured subordinated promissory note due on the second anniversary of the closing date. On
February 4, 2004, we paid off the $10.0 million unsecured subordinated promissory note and paid
post-closing purchase price adjustments in favor of Textron totaling $1.5 million. In addition, we
incurred $5.6 million in transaction expenses. We funded the cash portion of the purchase price and
the transaction expenses with remaining unallocated proceeds from the sale of our 2008 Notes.

LONG-TERM DEBT AND EQUITY  

On March 22, 2006, we entered into a $10.0 million, 2 1/2% fixed rate, five-year loan that
matures on April 1, 2011. This loan was related to job creation and was extended by Citizens Bank
of Pennsylvania in partnership with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a result of our expansion
efforts including the reopening of our Sunnyside facility in Bedford, Pennsylvania.

During the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006, we used approximately $22.0 million of
cash generated from operations for the acceptance of unsolicited offers by note holders to sell
$20.4 million in principal amount of our outstanding 2008 Notes at prices ranging from 104.25% to
105.625% of such principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We incurred charges of
approximately $0.8 million (after taxes) relating to the extinguishment of debt and the write-off
of deferred financing costs resulting from the open market purchases of our 2008 Notes. These
purchases of our 2008 Notes will lower our future interest expense by $1.7 million annually and
they reduced our fiscal 2006 interest expense by $0.5 million.

On March 16, 2005, we completed the sale of 11,500,000 shares of our common stock in an
underwritten public offering at a price to the public of $10.99 per share. After deducting
underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses paid by us, net proceeds from this
offering totaled approximately $119.4 million.

During the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we used approximately $68.1 million of the net
proceeds from the common stock offering to redeem $61.3 million in principal amount of our
outstanding 2012 Notes under an  equity clawback  provision that permits a redemption of up to 35%
of the aggregate principal amount of the 2012 Notes at

29 

Table of Contents   

a price equal to 108.375% of such principal
amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, at any time prior to June 15, 2005. We incurred a charge
of approximately $3.2 million (after taxes) relating to the extinguishment of debt, net of the
deferred gain on the related interest rate swap, and the write-off of deferred financing costs
resulting from the redemption of our 2012 Notes. The redemption of our 2012 Notes lowered our
interest expense by $5.1 million annually, and it reduced our fiscal 2005 interest expense by $1.5
million.

During the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005, we used approximately $16.4 million of
the net proceeds from the common stock offering for the acceptance of unsolicited offers by note
holders to sell $15.0 million in principal amount of our outstanding 2008 Notes at prices ranging
from 105.25% to 106% of such principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We incurred a
charge of approximately $0.7 million (after taxes) relating to the extinguishment of debt and the
write-off of deferred financing costs resulting from the open market purchase of our 2008 Notes.
The purchases of our 2008 Notes lowered our interest expense by $1.2 million annually, and it
reduced our fiscal 2005 interest expense by $0.4 million.

CREDIT FACILITIES  

We have a five-year $200.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility that expires
November 30, 2010. The facility includes an accordion feature under which JLG, subject to obtaining
increased commitments from existing or new lenders, may increase the maximum availability of the
facility up to $300 million. In addition, we have a pari passu, $15.0 million cash management
facility that expires November 30, 2007. Both facilities are secured by a lien on substantially
all of our domestic assets excluding property, plant and equipment. Availability of credit requires
compliance with various covenants, including a requirement that in the event the facility borrowing
availability is less than 15%, at any time, or in the event that during the 90-day period following
payment of certain bond obligations, the facility borrowing availability is less than 40%, we will
maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the senior secured revolving credit facility)
of not less than 1.10 to 1.0. Availability of credit also will be limited by a borrowing base
determined on a monthly basis by reference to 85% of eligible domestic accounts receivable and
percentages ranging between 25% and 70% of various categories of domestic inventory. Accordingly,
credit available to us under these facilities will vary with seasonal and other changes in the
borrowing base, and we may not have full availability of the stated maximum amount of credit at all
times. However, based on our current business plan, we expect to have sufficient credit available
that, combined with existing cash balances and cash to be generated from operations, will meet our
expected seasonal requirements for working capital, planned capital and integration expenditures
for the next twelve months.

MONETIZATION OF FINANCE RECEIVABLES AND PROGRAM AGREEMENTS  

Historically, our Access Financial Solutions segment originated and monetized customer finance
receivables principally through limited recourse syndications. Since late 2003, the focus of this
segment has shifted to providing  private label  financing solutions through program agreements
with third-party funding providers, subject to limited recourse to us. Transactions funded by the
finance companies are not held by us as financial assets, and therefore the subsequent payment from
the finance companies is not recorded on our financial statements. We may still fund some
transactions not funded by the finance companies to the extent of our liquidity sources. These
transactions may subsequently be monetized.

During fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 no finance receivables were monetized and in fiscal 2004,
we monetized $13.4 million of finance receivables through syndications. During the same periods,
$86.3 million, $38.0 million and $21.2 million, respectively, of sales to our customers were funded
through program agreements with third-party finance companies. Although monetizations generate
cash, under SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishment of Liabilities , the monetized portion of our finance receivables portfolio remains
recorded on our balance sheet as limited recourse debt with the associated pledged finance
receivable that was sold. We expect that our limited recourse debt balance will continue to
decline.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

Our accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report. As disclosed in Note 1, the preparation of
financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP )
requires management to make estimates

30 

Table of Contents   

and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts
reported in the financial statements and related notes. Future events and their effects cannot be
determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise
of judgment. Actual results inevitably will differ from those estimates, and such differences may
be material to the financial statements.

We believe that of our significant accounting policies, the following may involve a higher
degree of judgment, estimation, or complexity than other accounting policies.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts and Reserves for Finance Receivables:  We evaluate the
collectibility of receivables based on a combination of factors. In circumstances where we are
aware of a specific customer s inability to meet its financial obligations, a specific reserve is
recorded against amounts due to reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount reasonably
expected to be collected. Additional reserves are established based upon our perception of the
quality of the current receivables, the current financial position of our customers and past
experience of collectibility. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate
resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be
required.

Goodwill:  We perform a goodwill impairment test on at least an annual basis and more
frequently in certain circumstances. We cannot predict the occurrence of certain events that might
adversely affect the reported value of goodwill. Such events may include, but are not limited to,
strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the
economic environment on our customer base, or a material negative change in a relationship with a
significant customer.

Guarantees of the Indebtedness of Others:  We enter into agreements with finance companies
whereby our equipment is sold to a finance company, which, in turn, sells or leases it to a
customer. In some instances, we retain a liability in the event the customer defaults on the
financing. Reserves are established related to these guarantees based upon our understanding of the
current financial position of these customers and based on estimates and judgments made from
information available at that time. If we become aware of deterioration in the financial condition
of our customers or of any impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may
be required. Although we may be liable for the entire amount of a customer s financial obligation
under guarantees, our losses would be mitigated by the value of any underlying collateral including
financed equipment.

In addition, we have monetized a substantial portion of the receivables originated by AFS
through a series of syndications, limited recourse financings and other monetization transactions.
In connection with some of these monetization transactions, we have a loss exposure associated with
our pledged finance receivables related to possible defaults by the obligors under the terms of the
contracts, which comprise these finance receivables. Contingencies have been established related to
these monetization transactions based upon the current financial position of these customers and
based on estimates and judgments made from information available at that time. If the financial
condition of these obligors were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make
payments, additional allowances would be required.

We discuss our guarantee agreements in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report.

Income Taxes:  We estimate the effective tax rate expected to be applicable for the full
fiscal year on a quarterly basis. The rate determined is used in providing for income taxes on a
year-to-date basis. The tax effect of specific discrete items is reflected in the period in which
they occur. If the estimates and related assumptions used to calculate the effective tax rate
change, we may be required to adjust our effective rate, which could change income tax expense.

We record the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the tax bases of
assets and liabilities and amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, as
well as operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of any tax
assets recorded on the balance sheet and provide any necessary allowances as required. The carrying
value of the net deferred tax assets assumes, based on estimates and assumptions, that we will be
able to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions to realize the
benefits of such assets. If these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, we may be
required to record additional valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets resulting in
additional income tax expense in

31 

Table of Contents   

our Consolidated Statements of Income. In assessing the
realizability of deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some
portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We consider the scheduled reversal
of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, carry back opportunities and tax
planning strategies in making the assessment.

The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audit by federal, state and foreign tax
authorities, which may result in proposed assessments. We believe that we have adequately provided
for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters. However, future results may
include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities in the period the
assessments are determined or resolved. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which our earnings
and/or deductions are realized may differ from current estimates.

Inventory Valuation:  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Certain items in
inventory may be considered impaired, obsolete or excess and as such, we may establish an allowance
to reduce the carrying value of these items to their net realizable value. We also value used
equipment taken in trade from our customers. Based on certain estimates, assumptions and judgments
made from the information available at that time, we determine the amounts of these inventory
allowances. If these estimates and related assumptions or the market for our equipment change, we
may be required to record additional reserves.

Long-Lived Assets:  We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of
assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the assets to the
future net cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If such assets are considered to be
impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of
the assets exceeds their fair value. Judgments made by us related to the expected useful lives of
long-lived assets and our ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying
amounts of such assets are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of
the assets, changes in the expected use of the assets, changes in economic conditions, changes in
operating performance and anticipated future cash flows. Since judgment is involved in determining
the fair value of long-lived assets, there is risk that the carrying value of our long-lived assets
may require adjustment in future periods. If actual fair value is less than our estimates,
long-lived assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken
against earnings.

Pension and Postretirement Benefits:  Pension and postretirement benefit costs and obligations
are dependent on assumptions used in calculation of these amounts. These assumptions, used by
actuaries, include discount rates, expected returns on plan assets for funded plans, rates of
salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, participant demographics and other
factors. We consider current market conditions, including interest rates, in making these
assumptions. We develop the discount rates by considering the yields available on high-quality
fixed income investments with long-term maturities corresponding to the related benefit obligation.
We develop the expected return on plan assets by considering various factors, which include the
plan s targeted asset allocation percentages, historic returns, and expected future returns. In
accordance with GAAP, actual results that differ from the actuarial assumptions are accumulated and
amortized to future periods and therefore affect recognized expense and recorded obligations in
future periods. While we believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, differences in actual
experience or changes in assumptions may materially affect our financial position or results of
operations.

Product Liability:  Our business exposes us to possible claims for personal injury or death
and property damage resulting from the use of equipment that we rent or sell. We maintain insurance
through a combination of self-insurance retentions, primary insurance and excess insurance
coverage. We monitor claims and potential claims of which we become aware and establish liability
reserves for the self-insurance amounts based on our liability estimates for such claims. Our
liability estimates with respect to claims are based on internal evaluations of the merits of
individual claims and the reserves assigned by our independent insurance claims adjustment firm.
The methods of making such estimates and establishing the resulting accrued liability are reviewed
frequently, and adjustments resulting from our reviews are reflected in current earnings. If these
estimates and related assumptions change, we may be required to record additional reserves.

Revenue Recognition:  We recognize revenue when all the following criteria are satisfied with
regard to a specific transaction: persuasive evidence that a sales arrangement exists; the price is
fixed or determinable;

32 

Table of Contents   

collectibility of cash is reasonably assured; and delivery has occurred or
services have been rendered. For the majority of our sales, we recognize revenue when title is
transferred to the customer as soon as the product is shipped. For a portion of our sales,
primarily in Europe, we recognize revenue when title is transferred to the customer upon receipt at
the customer s location. In addition, certain sales, including our ATLAS brand of military
telehandler products, may be invoiced prior to the time customers take physical possession. In such
cases, revenue is recognized only when the customer has a fixed commitment to purchase the
equipment, the equipment has been completed and made available to the customer for pickup or
delivery, and the customer has requested that we hold the equipment for pickup or delivery at a
time specified by the customer. In such cases, the equipment is invoiced under our customary
billing terms, title to the equipment and risk of ownership passes to the customer upon invoicing,
the equipment is segregated from our inventory and identified as belonging to the customer, and we
have no further obligations under the order other than customary post-sales support activities.
During fiscal 2006, less than 1.0% of our sales were invoiced and the revenue recognized prior to
customers taking physical possession. In order for us to recognize revenue on the Millennia
Military Vehicle ( MMV ) brand of military telehandler products, they must pass inspection by a
government Quality Assurance Representative ( QAR ) at the point of production to ensure special
paint requirements are met and by a government representative at the point of destination to verify
delivery without damage during transportation.

The terms for sales transactions with some of our distributors and customers may include
specific volume-based incentives, which are calculated and paid or credited on account as a
percentage of actual purchases. We
account for these incentives as sales discounts at the time of revenue recognition as a direct
reduction of sales. We review our accrual for sales incentives on a quarterly basis and any
adjustments are reflected in current earnings.

We account for certain equipment lease contracts as sales-type leases. The present value of
all payments, net of executory costs (such as legal fees), is recorded as revenue and the related
cost of the equipment is charged to cost of sales. The associated interest is recorded over the
term of the lease using the interest method. In addition, we lease equipment held for rental and
recognize rental revenues in the period they are earned over the lease term.

We enter into rental purchase guarantee agreements ( RPGs ) with some of our customers. These
agreements are normally for a term of no greater than twelve months and provide for rental payments
with a guaranteed purchase option at the end of the agreement. At the inception of the agreement,
we record the full amount due under the agreement as revenue and the related cost of the equipment
is charged to cost of sales.

We ship equipment on a limited basis to certain customers on consignment, but we recognize the
revenues only upon final sale of the equipment by the consignee. At July 31, 2006, we had $6.2
million of inventory on consignment.

Warranty:  We establish reserves related to the warranties we provide on our products.
Specific reserves are maintained for programs related to equipment safety and reliability issues.
We establish estimates based on the size of the population, the type of program, costs to be
incurred by us and estimated participation. We maintain additional reserves based on the historical
percentage relationships of such costs to equipment sales and applied to current equipment sales.
If these estimates and related assumptions change, we may be required to record additional
reserves.

OUTLOOK 

Demand for access equipment remains strong, driven by expansion of our customers  rental
fleets and a robust non-residential construction market. Our rental company customers continue to
enjoy sustained high utilization rates and improved rental rates, feeding the demand for our
products. Although housing starts have slowed, they remain strong based on historical comparisons.

In fiscal 2007, our focus will be on improving the quality of earnings through aggressive cost
reduction activities, especially across our entire telehandler product portfolio, and margin
improvement through pricing action and control of associated discounts. We have successfully grown
our telehandler market share positioning us now to focus on realizing the volume purchasing and
other cost reduction benefits associated with our market leadership. Another focus will be our
small scissor line where price is the deciding factor. We will
continue to deploy our Six

33 

Table of Contents   

Sigma strategy along with other lean principles and activities to improve our operational efficiency and
the quality of our products and services.

Absent any major geopolitical events or economic shocks, we anticipate continued strong demand
for access equipment in fiscal 2007.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

Information regarding recent accounting pronouncements is included in Note 1 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

Information regarding off-balance sheet arrangements is included in our Contractual
Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments tables, Item 7 of Part II of this report and in Note 5
and Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

MARKET RISK 

We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange
rates, which could affect our future results of operations and financial condition. We manage
exposure to these risks principally through our regular operating and financing activities.

We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our outstanding debt. Our
outstanding interest rate swap instruments at July 31, 2006 consisted of a $70.0 million notional
fixed-to-variable rate swap with a fixed-rate receipt of 8 3/8% and a $62.5 million notional
fixed-to-variable rate swap with a fixed-rate receipt of 8 1/4%. The bases of the variable rates
paid related to our $70.0 million and $62.5 million interest rate swap instruments are the six
month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 4.51% and 5.15%, respectively. These swap
agreements are designated as hedges of the fixed-rate borrowings which are outstanding and are
structured as perfect hedges in accordance with SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities.  During fiscal 2003, we terminated our $87.5 million notional
fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreement with a fixed-rate receipt of 8 3/8% that we entered
into during June 2002, which resulted in a deferred gain of $6.2 million. The remaining deferred
gain of $2.6 million will offset interest expense over the remaining life of the debt. Total
interest bearing liabilities at July 31, 2006 consisted of $123.6 million in variable-rate
borrowing and $116.0 million in fixed-rate borrowing. At the current level of variable-rate
borrowing, a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would decrease pre-tax current year
earnings by approximately $1.2 million on an annual basis. A hypothetical 10% change in interest
rates would not result in a material change in the fair value of our fixed-rate debt.

We manufacture our products in the United States, Belgium and France, and sell these products
in North America and Europe as well as other international markets. As a result of the sales of our
products in foreign markets, our earnings are affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S.
dollar, as compared to foreign currencies in which certain of our transactions in foreign markets
are denominated. At July 31, 2006, the result of a uniform 10% strengthening in the value of the
U.S. dollar relative to the currencies in which our transactions are denominated would have the
effect of reducing gross profits for the year ended July 31, 2006 by approximately $47 million.
This calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the
U.S. dollar.

In addition to the direct effects of changes in exchange rates, such changes also affect the
volume of sales or the foreign currency sales price as competitors  products become more or less
attractive. Our sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates
does not take into account potential changes in sales levels or local currency prices.

34 

Table of Contents   

We enter into certain currency forward contracts to mitigate our foreign exchange risk that
qualify as derivative instruments under SFAS No. 133. However, we have not designated these
instruments as hedge transactions under SFAS No. 133 and, accordingly, the mark-to-market impact of
these derivatives is recorded each period to current earnings. Some natural hedges are also used to
mitigate transaction and forecasted exposures. At July 31, 2006, we were managing $315.6 million of
foreign currency contracts. Through our foreign currency hedging activities, we seek primarily to
minimize the risk that cash flows resulting from the sales of our products will be affected by
changes in exchange rates.

Additional information regarding our management of exposure to market risks is included in Note 1
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report.

35 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

36 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

37 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

38 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

39 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(in millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated) 

NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICES 

Principles of Consolidation and Statement Presentation 

The consolidated financial statements include our accounts and those of our subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

We operate on a 5-4-4 week quarter with our fiscal year and fourth quarter ending on July 31.
Our first quarter ends on the Sunday closest to October 31 that either coincides with or precedes
that date. Our second and third quarters end 13 and 26 weeks, respectively, following the end of
the first quarter.

Reclassifications 

Where appropriate, we have reclassified certain prior year amounts in the consolidated
financial statements to conform to the fiscal 2006 presentation.

Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles ( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
reported in the financial statements and related notes. Actual results inevitably will differ from
those estimates, and such differences may be material to the financial statements.

Capital Stock 

On March 27, 2006, we distributed a two-for-one stock split of our then outstanding common
stock. All share and per share data included in this report on Form 10-K have been restated to
reflect the stock split.

Revenue Recognition 

We recognize revenue when all the following criteria are satisfied with regard to a specific
transaction: persuasive evidence that a sales arrangement exists; the price is fixed or
determinable; collectibility of cash is reasonably assured; and delivery has occurred or services
have been rendered. For the majority of our sales, we recognize revenue when title is transferred
to the customer as soon as the product is shipped. For a portion of our sales, primarily in
Europe, we recognize revenue when title is transferred to the customer upon receipt at the
customer s location. In addition, certain sales, including our ATLAS brand of military telehandler
products, may be invoiced prior to the time customers take physical possession. In such cases,
revenue is recognized only when the customer has a fixed commitment to purchase the equipment, the
equipment has been completed and made available to the customer for pickup or delivery, and the
customer has requested that we hold the equipment for pickup or delivery at a time specified by the
customer. In such cases, the equipment is invoiced under our customary billing terms, title to the
equipment and risk of ownership passes to the customer upon invoicing, the equipment is segregated
from our inventory and identified as belonging to the customer, and we have no further obligations
under the order other than customary post-sales support activities. During fiscal 2006, less than
1.0% of our sales were invoiced and the revenue recognized prior to customers taking physical
possession. In order for us to recognize revenue on the Millennia Military Vehicle ( MMV ) brand
of military telehandler products, they must pass inspection by a government Quality Assurance
Representative ( QAR ) at the point of production to ensure special paint requirements are met and
by a government representative at the point of destination to verify delivery without damage during
transportation.

The terms for sales transactions with some of our distributors and customers may include
specific volume-based incentives, which are calculated and paid or credited on account as a
percentage of actual purchases. We account for these incentives as sales discounts at the time of
revenue recognition as a direct reduction of sales. We review our accrual for sales incentives on
a quarterly basis and any adjustments are reflected in current earnings.

40 

Table of Contents   

We account for certain equipment lease contracts as sales-type leases. The present value of
all payments, net of executory costs (such as legal fees), is recorded as revenue and the related
cost of the equipment is charged to cost of sales. The associated interest is recorded over the
term of the lease using the interest method. In addition, we lease equipment held for rental and
recognize rental revenues in the period they are earned over the lease term.

We enter into rental purchase guarantee agreements ( RPGs ) with some of our customers. These
agreements are normally for a term of no greater than twelve months and provide for rental payments
with a guaranteed purchase option at the end of the agreement. At the inception of the agreement,
we record the full amount due under the agreement as revenue and the related cost of the equipment
is charged to cost of sales.

We ship equipment on a limited basis to certain customers on consignment, but we recognize the
revenues only upon final sale of the equipment by the consignee. At July 31, 2006, we had $6.2
million of inventory on consignment.

Shipping and Handling Fees 

We reflect shipping and handling fees billed to customers as sales, while the related shipping
and handling costs are included in cost of sales. The amount of such shipping and handling costs
were not material to the financial statements.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

We consider all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when
purchased to be cash equivalents and classify such amounts as cash and cash equivalents. These
investments may include domestic commercial paper, direct obligations of the U.S. Government,
repurchase agreements, corporate debt instruments, mutual funds and money market and time deposit
investments in Europe with non-U.S. banks.

Inventories 

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The cost of inventories located in the
United States is based primarily on the LIFO (last-in, first-out) method. All other inventories are
based on the FIFO (first-in, first-out) method.

Our inventories consist of the following at July 31:

The cost of inventories stated under the LIFO method was 41% and 44% at July 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively, of our total inventory.

Property, Plant and Equipment and Equipment Held for Rental 

Property, plant and equipment and equipment held for rental are stated at cost, net of
accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method, based on useful
lives of 15 years for land improvements, 10 to 20 years for buildings and improvements, three to 10
years for machinery and equipment, and three to seven years for equipment held for rental.
Depreciation expense was $25.4 million, $25.3 million and $22.7 million for the fiscal years 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively, and includes the amortization of assets under capital leases.

41 

Table of Contents   

Long-Lived Assets 

We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be
held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the assets to the future net
cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If such assets are considered to be impaired,
the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the
assets exceeds their fair value. Judgments made by us related to the expected useful lives of
long-lived assets and our ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying
amounts of such assets are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of
the assets, changes in the expected use of the assets, changes in economic conditions, changes in
operating performance and anticipated future cash flows. Since judgment is involved in determining
the fair value of long-lived assets, there is risk that the carrying value of our long-lived assets
may require adjustment in future periods. If actual fair value is less than our estimates,
long-lived assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken
against earnings.

Goodwill 

Goodwill represents the difference between the total purchase price and the fair value of
identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in business acquisitions.

We perform a goodwill impairment test on at least an annual basis during our fourth quarter,
or more frequently in certain circumstances, by assessing the fair value of our reporting units
based upon a discounted cash flow methodology. We cannot predict the occurrence of certain events
that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill. Such events may include, but are not
limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact
of the economic environment on our customer base, or a material negative change in a relationship
with a significant customer. The cash flows are based on management s projection of future
financial results, including revenues, costs, working capital changes and capital expenditures and
are discounted at a rate corresponding to a  market  rate. Actual results will differ from those
estimates.

If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value determined
through that discounted cash flow methodology, goodwill impairment could be present. We would
measure the goodwill impairment loss based upon the fair value of the underlying assets and
liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, and estimate the
implied fair value of goodwill. An impairment loss would be recognized to the extent that a
reporting unit s recorded goodwill exceeded the implied fair value of goodwill.

We
determined our reporting units to be our business operating segments
for the purpose of our annual goodwill impairment test. We used our
North American and European Distribution business operating segments as our reporting
units in the determination of goodwill impairment.

42 

Table of Contents   

This table presents our reconciliation of the recorded goodwill during the period from August
1, 2004 to July 31, 2006:

The $1.2 million disposition during fiscal 2006 was the result of the sale of the Gradall
excavator product line during the third quarter. There were no dispositions of businesses with
related goodwill during fiscal 2005. Purchase accounting adjustments during fiscal 2006 and 2005
related to reductions in the initial accruals as a result of the finalization of our plan of
integrating the OmniQuip business with our existing business. In accordance with Emerging Issue
Task Force ( EITF ) No. 95-3,  Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business
Combination,  costs expended which are less than the amount recorded as a liability assumed in a
purchase business combination reduce the cost of the acquired company.

Income Taxes 

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities arise from differences between the tax basis of
assets or liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax balances
are determined by using the tax rate expected to be in effect when the taxes are paid or refunds
received.

Product Development 

We incurred product development costs of $28.7 million, $23.8 million and $20.2 million in
fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, which were charged to expense as incurred.

Product Warranty 

Most of our products carry a product warranty. That product warranty generally provides that
we will repair or replace parts of the product found to be defective in material or workmanship
during the specified warranty period following purchase at no cost to the customer. In addition, we
provide a one-year warranty on replacement or service parts that we sell. We provide for an
estimate of costs that may be incurred under our warranty at the time product revenue is recognized
based on the historical percentage relationships of such costs to machine sales and applied to
current equipment sales. In addition, specific reserves are maintained for programs related to
machine safety and reliability issues. Estimates are made regarding the size of the population, the
type of program, costs to be incurred by us and estimated participation.

This table presents our reconciliation of accrued product warranty during the period from
August 1, 2004 to July 31, 2006:

43 

Table of Contents   

Concentrations of Credit Risk 

Financial instruments, which potentially expose us to concentrations of credit risk, consist
primarily of trade and finance receivables. As of July 31, 2006, approximately 10% of our trade
receivables were due from one customer and approximately 45% of our finance receivables were due
from three customers (including 17% from the same customer that accounts for 10% of our trade
receivables). We routinely evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers and secure transactions
with letters of credit or other forms of security where we believe the risk warrants it. Finance
receivables are collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets.

Advertising and Promotion 

All costs associated with advertising and promoting products are expensed in the year
incurred. Advertising has been incurred when the services have been rendered or provided.
Advertising and promotion expense was $10.0 million, $9.1 million and $6.0 million in fiscal 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively.

Foreign Currency Translation 

The financial statements of our foreign operations are measured in their local currency and
then translated into U.S. dollars. All balance sheet accounts have been translated using the
current rate of exchange at the balance sheet date. Results of operations have been translated
using the average rates prevailing throughout the year. Translation gains or losses resulting from
the changes in the exchange rates from year to year are accumulated in a separate component of
shareholders  equity.

We are exposed to risks arising from changes in foreign currency rates, primarily the British
pound, Euro and Australian dollar. The aggregate gains and losses associated with foreign currency
transactions included in the results of operations were losses of $2.8 million in fiscal 2006,
gains of $5.8 million in fiscal 2005 and losses of $2.3 million in fiscal 2004.

Derivative Instruments 

We are exposed to market risks from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange
rates. We entered into interest rate swap agreements to manage our interest rate exposure in order
to achieve a cost-effective mix of fixed- and variable-rate indebtedness. We do not utilize
derivatives that contain leverage features. On the date on which we enter into a derivative, the
derivative is designated as a hedge of the identified exposure. We formally document all
relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as our risk management
objective and strategy for undertaking hedge transactions. In that documentation, we specifically
identify the hedged item and state how the hedging instrument is expected to reduce the risks
related to the hedged item.

We have designated our outstanding interest rate swap agreements as fair value hedges of the
underlying fixed-rate obligations. The objective of our hedges is to protect the debt against
changes in fair value due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. The fair value of interest
rate swap agreements is recorded in other assets or other long-term liabilities with a
corresponding increase or decrease in the fixed-rate obligation. The changes in the fair value of
interest rate swap agreements and the underlying fixed-rate obligations are recorded as equal and
offsetting unrealized gains and losses in interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of
Income. We have structured our interest rate swap agreements to be 100% effective. As a result,
there is no current impact on earnings resulting from hedge ineffectiveness.

Our outstanding interest rate swap instruments at July 31, 2006 consisted of a $70.0 million
notional fixed-to-variable rate swap with a fixed-rate receipt of 8 3/8% and a $62.5 million
notional fixed-to-variable rate swap with a fixed-rate receipt of 8 1/4%. The bases of the variable
rates paid related to our $70.0 million and $62.5 million interest rate swap instruments are the
six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 4.51% and 5.15%, respectively. The fair value
of our interest rate hedges were a negative $8.9 million at July 31, 2006 and reflect the estimated
amount that we would owe to terminate the contracts at the reporting date. The fair value of our
interest rate hedges is included in long-term debt, less current portion on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets.

44 

Table of Contents   

With respect to foreign currency market risk, we enter into certain foreign currency
contracts; principally forward exchanges, to manage some of our foreign currency exchange risk.
Some natural hedges are also used to mitigate transaction and forecasted exposures. Through our
foreign currency hedging activities, we seek primarily to minimize the risk that cash flows resulting from the sales of our products will be affected by
changes in exchange rates. Although these contracts qualify as derivative instruments under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 133, we have not designated these
instruments as hedge transactions under SFAS No. 133 and, accordingly, the mark-to-market impact of
these derivatives is recorded each period in current earnings. The fair value of foreign currency
related derivatives are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in other current assets and
other current liabilities. The mark-to-market impact related to the above forwards were a loss of
approximately $9.2 million in fiscal 2006 and gains of approximately $7.7 million and $0.2 million
in the fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively, and are included in  Miscellaneous, net  in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

Employee Retirement Plans 

We have discretionary, defined contribution retirement plans covering our eligible U.S.
employees. Our Board of Directors annually evaluates and determines the level of contributions to
the plans. The contributions to the plans are based on a calendar year while our fiscal year ends
July 31. Accordingly, we estimate our financial performance on a fiscal basis, which could turn out
significantly different on a calendar basis. We estimate contributions to these plans based upon
our projected profitability, and we accrue the contributions as a percentage of payroll each pay
period. We review the amount accrued on a quarterly basis. If our actual financial performance or
the percentage of payroll differs significantly from the projections, we may be required to adjust
the accruals.

Stock-Based Compensation 

Prior to August 1, 2005, we applied Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and related interpretations. See Note 16 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our stock-based incentive plan,
options outstanding and options exercisable. No stock-based compensation expense was recognized in
our Consolidated Statements of Income prior to fiscal 2006 for stock option grants, as the exercise
price was equal to the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant. In addition,
previously we recorded unearned stock-based compensation for nonvested restricted stock awards as
 unearned compensation  in the shareholders  equity section of our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

On August 1, 2005, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment,  requiring us to
recognize expense related to the fair value of our stock-based compensation awards. We elected the
modified prospective transition method as permitted by SFAS No. 123R. Under this transition method,
stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2006 included: (a) compensation expense related to
restricted stock awards, (b) compensation expense for all stock options granted prior to, but not
yet vested as of July 31, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
original provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  and (c)
compensation expense for awards granted subsequent to August 1, 2005, based on the grant-date fair
value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123R. In accordance with
the modified prospective transition method of SFAS No. 123R, financial results for prior periods
have not been restated.

SFAS No. 123R requires that cash flows from tax benefits resulting from tax deductions in
excess of the compensation cost recognized for stock-based awards ( excess tax benefits ) be
classified as financing cash flows prospectively from January 1, 2006. Prior to the adoption of
SFAS No. 123R, such excess tax benefits were presented as operating cash flows.

45 

Table of Contents   

For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the options is amortized
over the options  vesting period. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and
income per share if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 for the
years ended July 31:

The weighted-average fair values at date of grant for options granted during fiscal 2006, 2005
and 2004 were $9.65, $7.04 and $3.68, respectively, and were estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In May 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 154,
 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement
No. 3 . Previously, APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes  and FASB Statement No. 3,  Reporting
Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements  required the inclusion of the cumulative effect
of changes in accounting principle in net income of the period of the change. SFAS No. 154
requires companies to recognize a change in accounting principle, including a change required by a
new accounting pronouncement when the pronouncement does not include specific transition
provisions, retrospectively to prior period financial statements. SFAS No. 154 was effective as of
January 1, 2006 and the adoption of this standard did not have any impact on us in fiscal 2006.

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial
Instruments,  which amends SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities  and SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishments of Liabilities . SFAS No. 155 provides guidance to simplify the accounting for
certain hybrid instruments by permitting fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial
instrument that contains an embedded derivative, as well as, clarifies that beneficial interests in
securitized financial assets are subject to SFAS No. 133. In addition, SFAS No. 155 eliminates a
restriction on the passive derivative instruments that a qualifying special-purpose entity may hold
under SFAS No. 140. SFAS No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued or
subject to a new basis occurring after the beginning of an entity s first fiscal year that begins
after September 15, 2006. We are currently evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 155 on our financial
condition and results of operations.

In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, 
which amends SFAS No. 140. SFAS No. 156 provides guidance addressing the recognition and
measurement of separately recognized servicing assets and liabilities, common with mortgage
securitization activities, and provides an approach to simplify efforts to obtain hedge accounting
treatment. SFAS No. 156 is effective for all separately recognized servicing assets and liabilities
acquired or issued after the beginning of an entity s fiscal year that begins

46 

Table of Contents   

after September 15, 2006, with early adoption being permitted. We are currently evaluating the
impact of SFAS No. 156 on our financial condition and results of operations.

In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes,  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. FIN 48 provides guidance
for the recognition, derecognition and measurement in financial statements of tax positions taken
in previously filed tax returns or tax positions expected to be taken in tax returns. FIN 48
requires an entity to recognize the financial statement impact of a tax position when it is more
likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination. If the tax position meets the
more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, the tax effect is recognized at the largest amount of
the benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
We will be required to adopt FIN 48 as of August 1, 2007, with any cumulative effect of the change
in accounting principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. We are currently
evaluating the impact of FIN 48 on our financial condition and results of operations.

NOTE 2 ACQUISITIONS 

FISCAL 2006  

On October 27, 2005, we entered into a 20-year strategic alliance (the  Alliance ) with
Caterpillar Inc. ( Caterpillar ) related to the design, manufacture and sale by us of Caterpillar
branded telehandlers. The Alliance establishes separate dates in different geographic markets for
the transition of telehandler manufacturing and selling responsibility from Caterpillar to us
ranging from July 1 to November 1, 2006. As part of the Alliance, we acquired certain equipment,
inventory and substantially all of the tooling and intellectual property used by Caterpillar
exclusively in connection with the design and manufacture of Caterpillar s current European
telehandler products. The purchase price for these Caterpillar telehandler assets was $52.1
million, which included transaction expenses of $0.6 million, of which $46.4 million was paid at
closing on November 30, 2005 with the remaining $5.0 million paid on September 15, 2006. We funded
the cash portion of the purchase price of the Caterpillar telehandler assets and the transaction
expenses with cash generated from operations.

We made this asset acquisition because of its strategic fit and adherence to our growth
strategy and acquisition criteria. This acquisition was an addition to our North American and
European Distribution segments and has been accounted for as an asset purchase.

The following table summarizes our estimated fair values of the Caterpillar telehandler assets
acquired and liabilities assumed:

Of the $45.1 million of acquired intangible assets as of July 31, 2006, $29.8 million was
assigned to distributor and customer relations (20-year weighted-average useful life), $8.9 million
was assigned to patents (10-year weighted-average useful life) and $6.4 million was assigned to a
covenant not-to-compete agreement (20-year weighted-average useful life). The entire amount of
intangible assets is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.

We continue to evaluate the initial purchase price allocation for the Caterpillar telehandler
asset acquisition, and we will adjust the allocations as additional information relative to the
fair market values of the assets and liabilities become known. Examples of factors and
information that we use to refine the allocations include tangible and intangible asset appraisals.

47 

Table of Contents   

FISCAL 2004  

We completed several acquisitions of existing businesses during the year ended July 31, 2004.
We completed these acquisitions because of their strategic fit and adherence to our growth strategy
and acquisition criteria. The acquisitions during this time period were accounted for as purchases
and have resulted in the recognition of goodwill in our financial statements. Goodwill arising from
the purchase accounting reflects a number of factors including the future earnings and cash flow
potential of the acquired business and complimentary strategic fit and resulting synergies these
acquisitions bring to existing operations.

On April 30, 2004, we completed the purchase of Delta Manlift SAS ( Delta ), a subsidiary of
The Manitowoc Company ( Manitowoc ) for $9.9 million, which included transaction expenses of $0.9
million. Headquartered in Tonneins, France, Delta has two facilities that manufacture the Toucan
brand of vertical mast lifts, and a line of aerial work platforms distributed throughout Europe for
use principally in industrial and maintenance operations. In addition, we purchased certain
intellectual property and related assets of Manitowoc s discontinued product lines, which permitted
us to re-launch selected models of the Liftlux brand scissor lifts. We funded the purchase price
with cash generated from operations.

The following table summarizes our estimated fair values of the Delta assets acquired and
liabilities assumed on April 30, 2004:

Accounts receivable

$ 
     8.5 

Inventory

3.2 

Property, plant and equipment

1.4 

Goodwill

0.7 

Other intangible assets, trademarks

2.9 

Accounts payable

(3.9 
     ) 

Other assets and liabilities, net

(2.8 
     ) 

Assumed debt

(0.1 
     ) 

Net cash consideration

$ 
     9.9 

Of the $2.9 million of acquired intangible assets, $1.4 million was assigned to registered
trademarks that are not subject to amortization. The remaining $1.5 million of acquired intangible
assets was assigned to a registered trademark that has a useful life of 10 years.

The operating results of Delta are included in our consolidated results from operations
beginning April 30, 2004.

On August 1, 2003, we acquired the OmniQuip business unit ( OmniQuip ) of Textron Inc., which
includes all operations relating to the SkyTrak and Lull brand commercial telehandler products and
the ATLAS and the MMV military telehandler products, for $107.1 million, which included transaction
expenses of $5.6 million, with $90.0 million paid in cash at closing and $10.0 million paid in the
form of an unsecured subordinated promissory note due on the second anniversary of the closing
date. On February 4, 2004, we paid off this $10.0 million unsecured subordinated promissory note
payable and post-closing purchase price adjustments in favor of Textron totaling $1.5 million.

48 

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes our fair values of the OmniQuip assets acquired and liabilities
assumed on August 1, 2003:

(a) Includes $8.1 million related to personnel reductions and facility closings or restructuring. 

Of the $34.2 million of acquired intangible assets, $23.6 million was assigned to registered
trademarks that are not subject to amortization. The remaining $10.6 million of acquired intangible
assets has a weighted-average useful life of approximately eight years. The intangible assets that
make up that amount include distributor and customer relations of $1.0 million (20-year
weighted-average useful life), patents of $5.8 million (nine-year weighted-average useful life),
and contracts of $3.8 million (two-year weighted-average useful life). The entire amount of
intangible assets and goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.

The operating results of OmniQuip are included in our consolidated results from operations
beginning August 1, 2003.

In connection with our acquisitions, we assess and formulate plans related to their future
integration. This process begins during the due diligence process and is concluded within twelve
months of the acquisition. We accrue estimates for certain costs, related primarily to personnel
reductions and facility closures or restructurings, anticipated at the date of acquisition, in
accordance with EITF No. 95-3. Adjustments to these estimates are made as plans are finalized, but
in no event beyond one year from the acquisition date. To the extent these accruals are not
utilized for the intended purpose, the excess is recorded as a reduction of the purchase price,
typically by reducing recorded goodwill balances. Costs incurred in excess of the recorded accruals
are expensed as incurred.

As part of our OmniQuip integration plan, we permanently closed five facilities of the
acquired business and relocated that production into our existing facilities. Additionally, we have
reduced employment and will incur costs associated with the involuntary termination benefits and
relocation costs. These costs are incremental to our combined enterprise and are incurred as a
direct result of our exit plan. Accrued liabilities associated with these integration activities
include the following (in millions, except headcount):

49 

Table of Contents   

The adjustments to the initial accruals represent decreases to these accruals and an
associated decrease to goodwill as a result of the finalization of our plan of integrating the
OmniQuip business with our existing business. In accordance with EITF No. 95-3, costs expended
which are less than the amount recorded as a liability assumed in a purchase business combination
reduce the cost of the acquired company.

The remaining involuntary employee termination and relocation benefits accrual of $0.4 million
relates to the estimated relocation payments for eight employees.

NOTE 3   DISPOSITION OF ASSETS 

On February 3, 2006, we sold substantially all of the assets pertaining to our line of Gradall
excavators to Alamo Group Inc. ( AGI ) for cash consideration of $33.0 million net of adjustments
based on a balance sheet as of the closing date and on valuation of certain pension liabilities and
assets. The sale included the 430,000 square foot manufacturing facility in New Philadelphia, Ohio
and related equipment, machinery, tooling, and intellectual property. The Gradall excavator product
line included crawler and wheeled models. Divesting this product line was consistent with our
strategy of focusing our efforts on our core access business and the proceeds from the sale will be
used to continue implementing our growth strategy. In addition to the purchase agreement, we
executed a six-month transition supply agreement with AGI covering components for our telescopic
material handler product lines that at closing were manufactured at the New Philadelphia facility.
The Gradall excavator product line was part of our North American Distribution segment. The sale of
our line of Gradall excavators resulted in a one-time pre-tax gain of $14.6 million, including the
$6.7 million curtailment gain discussed in Note 13.

The carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities were as follows as of
February 3, 2006:

50 

Table of Contents   

NOTE 4 BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 

This table presents our computation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the years
ended July 31:

NOTE 5   TRADE ACCOUNTS AND FINANCE RECEIVABLES 

Our current portion of trade accounts and finance receivables consisted of the following at
July 31:

Finance receivables represent sales-type leases resulting from the sale of our products. Our
sales-type leases may have a component of residual value which anticipates that a piece of
equipment will have a minimum fair market value at a future point in time and the residual value
accrues to us at the end of the lease. We use our experience and knowledge as an original equipment
manufacturer and participant in end markets for our products along with third-party studies to
provide us with values for our products in the used equipment market and to estimate residual
values. We monitor these values for impairment and reflect any resulting adjustments in current
earnings.

Our net investment in finance and pledged finance receivables was as follows at July 31:

Of the total finance and pledged finance receivables balances at July 31, 2006 and 2005, $23.6
million and $62.9 million, respectively, are pledged finance receivables resulting from the
monetization of finance receivables. In compliance with SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities,  these transactions are accounted
for as debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The

51 

Table of Contents   

maximum loss exposure associated with these
transactions was $8.8 million as of July 31, 2006. As of July 31, 2006, our provision for losses
related to these transactions was $0.4 million.

The following table displays the contractual maturity of our finance and pledged finance
receivables. It does not necessarily reflect the timing of future cash collections because of
various factors including the possible refinancing or sale of finance receivables and repayments
prior to maturity.

For the 12-month periods ended July 31:

Provisions for losses on finance and pledged finance receivables are charged to income in
amounts sufficient to maintain the allowance at a level considered adequate to cover losses in the
existing receivable portfolio.

NOTE 6 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 

Our property, plant and equipment consisted of the following at July 31:

At July 31, 2006 and 2005, assets under capital leases totaled $3.5 million, and were included
in buildings and improvements in the table above. Accumulated amortization of assets held under
capital leases totaled $1.8 million and $1.2 million at July 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

52 

Table of Contents   

NOTE 7 INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

Intangible assets consisted of the following at July 31, 2006:

Intangible assets consisted of the following at July 31, 2005:

All of our acquired intangible assets with finite lives are being amortized on a straight-line
basis. Our amortization expense on intangible assets was $3.2 million, $3.6 million and $3.0
million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Amortization expense of our existing
intangible assets for fiscal 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 is estimated at approximately $3.7
million, $3.6 million, $3.5 million, $3.5 million and $3.2 million, respectively.

NOTE 8 OTHER ASSETS 

Other assets consisted of the following at July 31:

Future income tax benefits arise because certain items are treated differently for financial
accounting purposes than for income taxes purposes. We record the estimated future tax effects of
temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and amounts reported in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
We evaluate the recoverability of any tax assets recorded on the balance sheet and provide any
necessary allowances as required.

53 

Table of Contents   

Notes receivable and other investments are with customers or customer affiliates and include
restructuring of accounts and finance receivables as well as assisting our customers in their
financing efforts. As of July 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 96% and 82%, respectively, of our
current and long-term notes receivable and other investments were due from three and four parties,
respectively. We routinely evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers and provide reserves if
required under the circumstances. Certain notes receivables are collateralized by a security
interest in the underlying assets, other assets owned by the debtor and/or personal guarantees.
During fiscal 2006, we realized a loan loss of $6.5 million relating to one of our European
customers, which was fully reserved. We may incur losses in excess of our reserves if the financial
condition of our customers were to deteriorate or we do not realize the full amount of any
anticipated proceeds from the sale of the collateral supporting our customers  financial
obligations to us.

Deferred finance charges relate to our two note issues and indebtedness under bank credit
facilities and are ratably amortized over the remaining life of the instruments, or written off at
the time of any note redemption or credit facility early termination.

NOTE 9 BANK CREDIT LINES AND LONG-TERM DEBT 

At July 31, 2006, we had a five-year $200.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility
with a maturity of November 30, 2010. The facility includes an accordion feature under which JLG,
subject to obtaining increased commitments from existing or new lenders, may increase the maximum
availability of the facility up to $300 million. In addition, we have a pari passu, $15.0 million
cash management facility that expires November 30, 2007. Both facilities are secured by a lien on
substantially all of our domestic assets excluding property, plant and equipment. Availability of
credit requires compliance with various covenants, including a requirement that in the event the
facility borrowing availability is less than 15%, at any time, or in the event that during the
90-day period following payment of certain bond obligations, the facility borrowing availability is
less than 40%, we will maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the senior secured
revolving credit facility) of not less than 1.10 to 1.0. Availability of credit also will be
limited by a borrowing base determined on a monthly basis by reference to 85% of eligible domestic
accounts receivable and percentages ranging between 25% and 70% of various categories of domestic
inventory. We are required to pay an annual administrative fee of $50 thousand and an annual
agency fee of $5 thousand per lender (subject to a minimum of $25 thousand and a maximum of $50
thousand) associated with our senior secured revolving credit facility. We did not borrow from
these credit facilities during fiscal 2006. At July 31, 2006, we were in compliance with all terms
and conditions of our credit facilities.

On March 22, 2006, we entered into a $10.0 million, 2 1/2% fixed rate, five-year loan that
matures on April 1, 2011. This loan was related to job creation and was extended by Citizens Bank
of Pennsylvania in partnership with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a result of our expansion
efforts including the reopening of our Sunnyside facility in Bedford, Pennsylvania.

Our long-term debt was as follows at July 31:

Interest paid on all borrowings was $21.3 million, $24.5 million and $24.5 million in fiscal
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The aggregate amounts of long-term debt outstanding at July 31,
2006 which will become due in 2007 through 2011 are: $8.5 million, $89.6 million, $2.9 million,
$3.0 million and $2.4 million, respectively.

54 

Table of Contents   

During the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we used approximately $68.1 million of the net
proceeds from the common stock offering to redeem $61.3 million in principal amount of our
outstanding 2012 Notes under an  equity clawback  provision that permits a redemption of up to 35%
of the aggregate principal amount of the 2012 Notes at a price equal to 108.375% of such principal
amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, at any time prior to June 15, 2005. We incurred a charge
of approximately $3.2 million (after taxes) relating to the extinguishment of debt, net of the
deferred gain on the related interest rate swap, and the write-off of deferred financing costs
resulting from the redemption of our 2012 Notes. The redemption of our 2012 Notes lowered our
interest expense by $5.1 million annually, and it reduced our fiscal 2005 interest expense by $1.5
million.

During the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005, we used approximately $16.4 million of
the net proceeds from the common stock offering for the acceptance of unsolicited offers by note
holders to sell $15.0 million in principal amount of our outstanding 2008 Notes at prices ranging
from 105.25% to 106% of such principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We incurred a
charge of approximately $0.7 million (after taxes) relating to the extinguishment of debt and the
write-off of deferred financing costs resulting from the open market purchase of our 2008 Notes.
These purchases of our 2008 Notes lowered our interest expense by $1.2 million annually, and it
reduced our fiscal 2005 interest expense by $0.4 million.

During the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006, we used approximately $22.0 million of
cash generated from operations for the acceptance of unsolicited offers by note holders to sell
$20.4 million in principal amount of our outstanding 2008 Notes at prices ranging from 104.25% to
105.625% of such principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We incurred charges of
approximately $0.8 million (after taxes) relating to the extinguishment of debt and the write-off
of deferred financing costs resulting from the open market purchases of our 2008 Notes. These
purchases of our 2008 Notes will lower our future interest expense by $1.6 million annually and
they reduced our fiscal 2006 interest expense by $0.5 million.

At July 31, 2006, the fair values of our $113.8 million in principal amount of outstanding
2012 Notes and our $89.5 million in principal amount of outstanding 2008 Notes were $120.2 million
and $93.7 million, respectively, based on quoted market values. At July 31, 2005, the fair values
of our $113.8 million in principal amount of outstanding 2012 Notes and our $110.0 million in
principal amount of outstanding 2008 Notes were $120.7 million and $116.0 million, respectively,
based on quoted market values. The fair value of our remaining long-term debt at July 31, 2006 and
at July 31, 2005 is estimated to approximate the carrying amount reported in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets based on current interest rates for similar types of borrowings.

NOTE 10 LIMITED RECOURSE DEBT FROM FINANCE RECEIVABLES MONETIZATIONS 

As a result of the sale of finance receivables through limited recourse monetization
transactions, we have $23.7 million of limited recourse debt outstanding as of July 31, 2006. The
aggregate amounts of limited recourse debt outstanding at July 31, 2006 becomes due in fiscal 2007
through 2009 as follows: $16.0 million, $7.1million, and $0.6 million, respectively.

NOTE 11 ACCRUED EXPENSES 

Our accrued expenses consisted of the following at July 31:

55 

Table of Contents   

NOTE 12 INCOME TAXES 

Our foreign and domestic pre-tax accounting income consisted of the following for the years
ended July 31:

Our income tax provision consisted of the following for the years ended July 31:

We
made income tax payments of $57.9 million, $39.7 million and $14.7 million in fiscal 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively. Income tax benefits recorded directly as an adjustment to equity as a
result of employee stock awards were $20.4 million, $7.9 million and $0.7 million in fiscal 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively.

The difference between the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and our effective tax rate
is as follows for the years ended July 31:

56 

Table of Contents   

Deferred income taxes arise because there are certain items that are treated differently for
financial accounting than for income tax purposes. Our components of deferred tax assets and
liabilities were as follows at July 31:

The current and long-term deferred tax asset amounts are included in other current assets and
other asset balances on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

At July 31, 2006, we had foreign tax loss carryforwards of $5.5 million, which may be carried
forward indefinitely. We also have state loss carryforwards of approximately $26.0 million, which
will expire between 2007 and 2025.

NOTE 13 EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS 

Substantially all of our U.S. employees participate in defined contribution or
non-contributory defined benefit plans. Prior to our sale of the Gradall excavator product line to
AGI on February 3, 2006, its employees were covered by union-sponsored, collectively bargained
multi-employer pension plans and a union employment contract. Our expense related to funding the
multi-employer plan through February 3, 2006 was $0.2 million, $0.4 million and $0.3 million in
fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

We have discretionary, defined contribution retirement plans covering our eligible U.S.
employees. Our policy is to fund the cost as accrued. Plan assets are invested in mutual funds and
our capital stock. The aggregate expense relating to these plans was $11.0 million, $5.9 million
and $4.6 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

We also have non-qualified defined benefit plans that provide senior management with
supplemental retirement ( SERP ), medical and death benefits.

As a result of the sale of the Gradall excavator product line to AGI during the third quarter
of 2006, we terminated a significant number of employees. These employees were hired by AGI and
will no longer be eligible for future postretirement or pension benefits from us. Their
termination of employment from JLG was considered a curtailment under SFAS No. 106,  Employers 
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions.  As a result, we recognized a one-time
pre-tax accounting credit of $6.7 million that is included in the gain on the sale of the excavator
product line and recognized a reduction of $0.5 million in our postretirement benefits expense
during fiscal 2006. In addition, as part of the transaction, AGI assumed the two Gradall defined
benefit plans, which included the transfer of all of the assets and obligations of these plans. As
a result, we recognized a reduction of $0.6 million in our pension benefits expense during fiscal
2006 and reversed the previously recorded minimum pension liability of $5.5 million.

57 

Table of Contents   

The following table presents our defined benefit pension and postretirement plans  funded
status and amounts recognized in our consolidated financial statements. We use a measurement date
of April 30 for the majority of our defined benefit pension and postretirement plans.

Our defined benefit pension plans  weighted-average asset allocations by asset category
consist of the following at July 31:

As of July 31, 2006, there were no assets related to our defined benefit pension plans since
all of the assets in the trusts for the two Gradall defined benefit plans were transferred to AGI
during the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and our SERP is an unfunded plan. Our Administrative
Committee manages the operations and administration of all benefit plans and related trusts. The
Committee had an investment policy for the assets of the Gradall defined benefit pension plans that
established target asset allocations of 70% equity securities and 30% fixed income securities. The
Committee established its estimated long-term return on the Gradall plan assets considering various
factors, which included the targeted asset allocation percentages, historic returns, and expected
future returns. Through February 3, 2006, the Committee reviewed progress towards achieving the
Gradall defined benefit pension plans  and individual managers  performance objectives.

58 

Table of Contents   

The funded status of our defined benefit pension plans at July 31, 2005 reflected the effects
of negative returns experienced in the global capital markets during fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002,
and a decline in the discount rate used to estimate the pension liability. As a result, the
accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of
plan assets. As required by GAAP, the Consolidated Balance Sheet reflected a minimum pension
liability of $5.5 million at July 31, 2005. The effect of the funded status of the plan resulted in
an increase in accrued benefit costs by $3.1 million and an increase in accumulated other
comprehensive loss by $1.9 million, net of tax.

Our accumulated benefit obligation related to all defined benefit pension plans and
information related to unfunded and underfunded defined benefit pension plans consisted of the
following at July 31:

Because all of the assets and obligations of the two Gradall defined benefit plans were
transferred to AGI during the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the information in the above table at
July 31, 2006 only includes information relating to our SERP.

Our components of pension and postretirement expense were as follows for the years ended July
31:

Effective December 31, 2004, credited service was frozen for a number of participants in one
of our retirement plans. This reduced that plan s projected benefit obligation by $1.0 million,
resulting in a negative unrecognized prior service cost base to be amortized over approximately 14
years.

As a result of changes made to the retiree contribution rates for one of our postretirement
plans, we recognized a reduction of $0.7 million to our other postretirement benefits expense in
fiscal 2005 and a reduction to that plan s projected benefit obligation of $4.5 million.

In May 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 106-2,  Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003.  We adopted
FSP No. FAS 106-2 during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, which reduced our accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation by $4.3 million at July 31, 2004 and reduced our fiscal 2005
expense by $0.8 million. Of the $0.8 million reduction in fiscal 2005 expense, $0.3 million was
associated with the amortization of the actuarial experience gain, $0.3 million was the resulting
reduction in interest costs on the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and $0.2 million
was

59 

Table of Contents   

the reduction in the current period service costs. The adoption of FSP No. FAS 106-2 did not
require us to change previously reported information because we elected to defer accounting for the
effects of the Act until authoritative guidance on the accounting for the federal subsidy was
issued under FSP No. FAS 106-2. Additionally, the accrued benefit obligation and net periodic
postretirement benefit cost included in our consolidated financial statements, for
the periods prior to the date of adoption, do not reflect the effects of the Act on our plan
since we elected prospective application of FSP No. FAS 106-2.

Our weighted average actuarial assumptions as of July 31 were as follows:

We consider current market conditions, including interest rates, in making these assumptions.
We develop the discount rates by considering the yields available on high-quality fixed income
investments with long-term maturities corresponding to the related benefit obligation. We develop
the expected return on plan assets by considering various factors, which include the plan s
targeted asset allocation percentages, historic returns, and expected future returns. In
accordance with GAAP, actual results that differ from the actuarial assumptions are accumulated and
amortized to future periods and therefore affect recognized expense and recorded obligations in
future periods.

The health care cost trend rate used to determine the postretirement benefit obligation was
10.0% for 2006. This rate decreases gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.3% in 2016, and remains at
that level thereafter. The trend rate is a significant factor in determining the amounts reported.
A one-percentage-point change in these assumed health care cost trend rates would have the
following effects:

One-Percentage-Point  

Increase  
       
      Decrease  

Postretirement benefit obligation

$ 
     1.7 

$ 
     1.6 

Service and interest cost components

$ 
     0.6 

$ 
     0.5 

In fiscal 2007, we do not expect to make cash contributions to our SERP. However, we expect to
continue to make contributions in fiscal 2007 sufficient to fund benefits paid under our other
postretirement benefit plans during that year, net of contributions by plan participants. Such
contributions totaled $1.5 million in fiscal 2006. The amounts principally represent contributions
required by funding regulations or laws or those related to unfunded plans necessary to fund
current benefits.

Based on the same assumptions used to measure our benefit obligations at July 31, 2006, the
following table displays the benefits expected to be paid under our defined benefit pension plans
and our other postretirement benefit plans for the years ended July 31:

The benefits expected to be paid under our other postretirement benefit plans include expected
Medicare subsidy receipts of $0.2 million for each fiscal year 2007 through 2011, and $1.2 million
for fiscal years 2012 to 2016.

60 

Table of Contents   

NOTE 14 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

We are a party to personal injury and property damage litigation arising out of incidents
involving the use of our products. Our insurance program for fiscal 2006 was comprised of a
self-insured retention of $3.0 million per claim for domestic claims, insurance coverage of $2.0
million for international claims and catastrophic coverage for domestic and international claims of
$100.0 million in excess of the retention and primary coverage. We contract with an independent
firm to provide claims handling and adjustment services. Our estimates with respect to claims
are based on internal evaluations of the merits of individual claims and the reserves assigned
by our independent insurance claims adjustment firm. We frequently review the methods of making
such estimates and establishing the resulting accrued liability, and any resulting adjustments are
reflected in current earnings. Claims are paid over varying periods, which generally do not exceed
five years. Accrued liabilities for future claims are not discounted.

As of July 31, 2006 and 2005, we had $37.0 million and $31.0 million, respectively, of
reserves for product liability claims. These amounts are included in accrued expenses and
provisions for contingencies on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. While our ultimate liability may
exceed or be less than the amounts accrued, we believe that it is unlikely we would experience
losses that are materially in excess of such reserve amounts. The provisions for self-insured
losses are included within cost of sales in our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of July 31,
2006 and 2005, there were no insurance recoverables or offset implications and there were no claims
by us being contested by insurers.

At July 31, 2006, we are a party to multiple agreements whereby we guarantee $87.3 million in
indebtedness of others, including the $24.6 million maximum loss exposure under loss pool
agreements related to both finance receivable monetizations and third-party financing. As of July
31, 2006, three customers owed approximately 63% of our total guaranteed indebtedness. Under the
terms of these and various related agreements and upon the occurrence of certain events, we
generally have the ability, among other things, to take possession of the underlying collateral
and/or to demand reimbursement from other parties for any payments made by us under these
agreements. At July 31, 2006, we had $3.9 million reserved related to these agreements, including a
provision for losses of $0.4 million related to our pledged finance receivables. If the financial
condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make
payments, additional reserves may be required. While we believe it is unlikely that we would
experience losses under these agreements that are materially in excess of the amounts reserved, we
can provide no assurance that the financial condition of the third parties will not deteriorate
resulting in the customers  inability to meet their obligations and, in the event that occurs, we
cannot guarantee that the collateral underlying the agreements will be sufficient to avoid losses
materially in excess of those reserved.

We have received notices of audit adjustments totaling $7.1 million from the Pennsylvania
Department of Revenue ( PA ) in connection with audits of our fiscal years 1999 through 2003. The
adjustments proposed by PA consist primarily of the disallowance of a royalty deduction taken in
our income tax returns. We believe that PA has acted contrary to applicable law, and we are
disputing its position. While we are continuing the appeal process, PA has denied any relief on our
appeals to date.

There can be no assurance that unanticipated events will not require us to increase the amount
we have accrued for any matter or accrue for a matter that has not been previously accrued because
it was not considered probable.

NOTE 15 LEASES 

We lease certain offices, manufacturing facilities, service facilities and equipment.
Generally, the leases carry renewal provisions and require us to pay maintenance costs. Rental
payments may be adjusted for increases in taxes and insurance above specified amounts.

Our total rental expense for operating leases was $9.4 million, $10.4 million and $9.9 million
in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. At July 31, 2006, our future minimum lease payments
under non-cancelable operating leases with initial or remaining terms of more than one year are
$7.4 million, $7.2 million, $6.5 million, $3.5 million, $3.2 million and $9.9 million in fiscal
2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and thereafter, respectively.

61 

Table of Contents   

We lease our Oakes, North Dakota facility and certain equipment pursuant to a lease agreement
dated February 1, 1999 that expires in February 2014, which is recorded in our consolidated
financial statements as a capital lease. Aggregate minimum annual rentals at July 31, 2006 under
this lease are as follows:

This capital lease obligation is included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in the current
portion of long-term debt and long-term debt, less current portion.

NOTE 16 STOCK-BASED INCENTIVE PLAN 

During November 2005, shareholders approved our 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan which
authorizes, up to a maximum of 12.4 million shares, the granting of awards to key employees and
directors in the form of options to purchase capital stock, restricted shares, stock appreciation
rights, bonus shares, performance units and performance shares that can be settled in shares of
capital stock or cash. The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors determines the number
of shares, the term, the frequency and date, the type, the exercise periods, any performance
criteria pursuant to which awards may be granted and the restrictions and other terms and
conditions of each grant of restricted shares in accordance with the terms of our Plan. Options
granted have a maximum term of 10 years and vest in periods ranging from one year to five years.
Restricted shares granted vest in periods ranging from one year to five years. To date,
performance shares granted are based upon our performance over a three-year period. For all
options currently outstanding, the option price is the fair market value of the shares on their
date of grant.

We recognize compensation expense for stock option awards and nonvested restricted share
awards that vest based on time or market parameters on a straight-line basis over the requisite
service period for vesting of the award or to an employee s eligible retirement date, if earlier
and applicable. Performance-based nonvested share awards are recognized as compensation expense
based on the fair value on the date of grant, the number of shares ultimately expected to vest and
the vesting period. At July 31, 2006, achievement of the performance factor is believed to be
probable. Total stock-based compensation expense included in our Consolidated Statements of Income
for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $8.7 million ($5.4 million net of tax), $3.5 million ($2.1
million net of tax) and $3.1 million ($1.9 million net of tax), respectively.

As a result of adopting SFAS No. 123R on August 1, 2005, our income before taxes, net income
and basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2006 were $3.6 million, $2.2 million and $0.02
lower, respectively, than if we had continued to account for stock-based compensation under APB
Opinion No. 25 for our stock option grants.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we reported all tax benefits resulting from the
exercise of stock options as operating cash flows in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In
accordance with SFAS No. 123R, for fiscal 2006, we revised our Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows presentation to report the excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options as
financing cash flows. For fiscal 2006, $20.4 million of excess tax benefits were reported as
financing cash flows rather than operating cash flows. For fiscal 2005 and 2004, the excess tax
benefits of $7.9 million and $0.7 million, respectively, were included in operating cash flows.

62 

Table of Contents   

Net cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options were $18.6 million, $19.8 million and
$2.5 million for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The actual income tax benefit realized
from stock option exercises total $20.5 million, $7.9 million and $0.7 million, respectively, for
those same periods.

Information related to our equity compensation plan in effect as of July 31, 2006 is as
follows (in thousands, except weighted average exercise price):

Number of Securities  

Number of Securities  

Remaining Available  

to Be Issued Upon  

Weighted Average  

for Future Issuance  

Exercise of  

Exercise Price of  

Under Equity  

Plan Category  
       
      Outstanding Options  

Outstanding Options  

Compensation Plans  

Equity
compensation plans
approved by
security holders

3,261 

$ 
     8.52 

4,853 

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders

Total

3,261 

$ 
     8.52 

4,853 

A summary of our stock option activity is as follows (in thousands, except weighted average
exercise price) for the years ended July 31:

We continue to use the Black-Scholes valuation model to value stock options. We used our
historical stock prices as the basis for our volatility assumption. The assumed risk-free rates
were based on U.S. Treasury rates in effect at the time of grant. The expected option life
represents the period of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding and were
based on historical experience.

As of July 31, 2006, we had $7.2 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to
outstanding stock options, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.

63 

Table of Contents   

Our information with respect to stock options outstanding at July 31, 2006 is as follows (in
thousands, except weighted average exercise price and aggregate intrinsic value):

The aggregate intrinsic value in the tables above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value
(difference between our closing stock price on the last trading day of fiscal 2006 and the exercise
price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the
option holders had all option holders exercised their options on July 31, 2006. This amount
changes based on the fair market value of our stock. Total intrinsic value of options exercised
for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $55.7 million, $17.9 million and $2.1 million, respectively.

64 

Table of Contents   

A summary of our nonvested restricted stock awards is as follows (in thousands, except
weighted-average grant date fair value) for the years ended July 31:

The compensation expense related to nonvested restricted stock awards was $4.6 million, $3.5
million and $3.1 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of July 31, 2006, there
was $10.0 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested restricted stock
awards. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.

During fiscal 2005, we granted performance shares of common stock. Each performance share
represents the right to receive one share of common stock based upon our performance over a
three-year period. At July 31, 2006 and 2005, achievement of the performance factors were believed
to be probable, thus $0.5 million and $8 thousand of compensation expense has been recorded for our
performance-based award during fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively.

NOTE 17 INTEREST EXPENSE, NET OF INTEREST INCOME 

Interest expense, net of interest income, consisted of the following for the years ended July 31:

NOTE 18 SEGMENT INFORMATION 

Through the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we were organized and reported the results of
operations in three business segments: Machinery, Equipment Services and Access Financial Services.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we changed our organizational structure such that our
operations are now managed in seven business segments: North American Distribution, European
Distribution, Rest of World Distribution, Caterpillar Alliance Group, Commercial Solutions Group,
ServicePlus and Access Financial Solutions, however because certain segments meet the aggregation
criteria of paragraph 17 of SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information  accordingly, for disclosure purposes, we have aggregated our operating segments into
four reportable segments: North American Distribution, European Distribution, Rest of World
Distribution and Access Financial Solutions. Segment financial information has been restated for
all periods presented in order to conform to our new structure.

The North American Distribution segment designs, manufactures and sells aerial work platforms,
telehandlers and trailers, as well as an array of complementary accessories that increase the
versatility and efficiency of these products for end-users and provides after-sales service and
support for our installed base of equipment, including parts sales, extended warranty contracts and
equipment rentals, and sells used equipment, provides preventative maintenance service contracts,
and remanufactures or reconditions military and other equipment for the North American region.

65 

Table of Contents   

The European Distribution segment designs, manufactures and sells aerial work platforms and
telehandlers, as well as an array of complementary accessories that increase the versatility and
efficiency of these products for end-users and provides after-sales service and support for our
installed base of equipment, including parts sales, extended warranty contracts and equipment
rentals, and sells used and remanufactured or reconditioned equipment for the European region.

The Rest of World Distribution segment sells aerial work platforms, telehandlers and portable
light towers, as well as an array of complementary accessories that increase the versatility and
efficiency of these products for end-users and provides after-sales service and support for our
installed base of equipment, including parts sales and equipment rentals, and sells used and
remanufactured or reconditioned equipment for the remainder of the world.

Until February 2006, when we sold the Gradall excavator product line, sales of telescopic
hydraulic excavators were included in the North American Distribution, European Distribution and
Rest of World Distribution segments based upon the region where the sale was made.

The Access Financial Solutions segment arranges equipment financing and leasing solutions for
our customers primarily through third party financial institutions and provides credit support in
connection with these financing and leasing arrangements.

We evaluate performance of all the reportable segments, except for the Access Financial
Solutions segment, and allocate resources based on operating profit before interest, miscellaneous
income/expense and income taxes. We evaluate performance of the Access Financial Solutions segment
and allocate resources based on its operating profit less interest expense. Intersegment sales and
transfers are not significant. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as
those described in the summary of significant accounting policies.

Our business segment information consisted of the following for the years ended July 31:

(a)  
       
      Includes $14.6 million in fiscal 2006 related to the gain on the sale of the Gradall excavator
product line.  

66 

Table of Contents   

Our segment sales by major customers as a percentage of total segment revenues consisted of
the following for the years ended July 31:

Our revenues by product group consisted of the following for the years ended July 31:

We manufacture our products in the United States, Belgium and France and sell these products
globally, but principally in North America, Europe, Australia and South America. No single foreign
country accounts for revenues that are significant to the consolidated operations.

67 

Table of Contents   

Our revenues by geographic region consisted of the following for the years ended July 31:

The value of our long-lived assets by geographic region were as follows at July 31:

NOTE 19 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

SFAS No. 130,  Reporting Comprehensive Income,  defines comprehensive income as
non-stockholder changes in equity. Our accumulated other comprehensive loss consisted of the
following at July 31:

Translation adjustments are not generally adjusted for income taxes as they relate to
indefinite investments in foreign subsidiaries.

NOTE 20 SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN 

We declared a distribution of one Right for each outstanding share of capital stock to
shareholders of record at the close of business on June 15, 2000. Each Right entitles the
registered holder to purchase from us one-tenth of a share of our capital stock at a purchase price
of $20 per whole share of our capital stock. The Rights will expire on May 24, 2010 unless redeemed
earlier by us or exchanged for capital stock.

Separate certificates for Rights will not be distributed, nor will the Rights be exercisable
unless a person or group (an  Acquiring Person ) acquires 15% or more, or announces an offer that
could result in acquiring 15% or more of our capital shares, unless such acquisition or offer is
pursuant to a Permitted Offer approved by a majority of directors who are not our officers or
affiliates of the Acquiring Person. Following an acquisition of 15% or more of our capital shares
(a  Stock Acquisition ), other than pursuant to a Permitted Offer, each Rightholder, except the 15%
or more stockholder, has the right to receive, upon exercise, capital shares valued at twice the
then applicable exercise price of the Right (or, under certain circumstances, cash, property or
other of our securities.)

Similarly, unless certain conditions are met, if we engage in a merger or other business
combination following a Stock Acquisition where we do not survive or where part of our capital
shares are exchanged or converted into securities, cash or property of another person, or if 50% or
more of our assets or earning power is sold or transferred, the Rights become exercisable for
shares of the acquirer s stock having a value of twice the exercise price (or, under certain
circumstances, cash or property). The Rights are not exercisable, however, until our right of
redemption described below has expired.

At any time until 10 business days following public announcement that a 15% or greater
position has been acquired in our stock, a majority of our Board of Directors may redeem the Rights
in whole, but not in part, at a

68 

Table of Contents   

price of $.0005 per Right, payable, at the election of such
majority of our Board of Directors, in cash or shares of our capital stock. Immediately upon the
action of a majority of our Board of Directors ordering the redemption of
the Rights, the Rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights will be to
receive the redemption price.

NOTE 21 SUBSEQUENT EVENT 

Effective September 1, 2006, we eliminated eligibility for the retiree medical program for
current employees who do not meet defined criteria based on age and years of service.
Additionally, we will phase out our subsidy for the retiree medical program effective January 1,
2009. We anticipate these actions will result in reductions to the postretirement plan obligations
of $21.2 million. We will recognize these changes as a negative plan amendment beginning in the
second quarter of fiscal 2007.

NOTE 22 UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Our unaudited financial information was as follows for the fiscal quarters within the years
ended July 31:

Results for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 included a gain of $14.6 million ($8.8 million
net of tax or $0.08 per diluted share) related to the sale of the Gradall excavator product line.

The sum of the individual quarterly earnings (loss) per basic and diluted share may not equal
the fiscal year earnings per basic and diluted share due to changes in the number of common shares
outstanding during the year.

69 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders 
JLG Industries, Inc. 
McConnellsburg, Pennsylvania

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of JLG Industries, Inc. as of
July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2006. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of JLG Industries, Inc. at July 31, 2006 and 2005,
and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended July 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in Notes 1 and 16 to the notes to consolidated financial statements, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, Share Based Payment,  effective
August 1, 2005.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of JLG Industries, Inc. s internal control over
financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), and our report dated September 15, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on
management s assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial
reporting.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

Baltimore, Maryland 
September 15, 2006

70 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders 
JLG Industries, Inc. 
McConnellsburg, Pennsylvania

We have audited management s assessment, included in Management s Report on Internal Control
over Financial Reporting, that JLG Industries, Inc. maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). JLG Industries, Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have
a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management s assessment that JLG Industries, Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material
respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, JLG Industries, Inc. maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based
on the COSO criteria . 

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of JLG Industries, Inc. as of July
31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2006, and our report dated September
15, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

Baltimore, Maryland 
September 15, 2006

71 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, with participation of other
management, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of the end
of the period covered by this report. Based on their evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated the effectiveness of the design and
operation of our internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006 based on the
framework in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of July 31, 2006 to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. We reviewed the results of the evaluation with the Audit Committee of our
Board of Directors.

As of July 31, 2006, our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst   Young LLP,
audited management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
and also independently assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.
Ernst   Young LLP has issued an attestation report concurring with management s assessment,
included in Item 8 of this report.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

There have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term
is defined in Rules 13a-15f) and 15d-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) during the most
recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect
our internal control over financial reporting.

72 

Table of Contents   

CEO and CFO Certifications 

The certifications of the CEO and the CFO required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, or the  Rule 13a-14 Certifications,  are filed as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 of
this report. This  Controls and Procedures  section of this report includes the information
concerning the Controls Evaluation referred to in the Rule 13a-14 Certifications and this section
should be read in conjunction with the Rule 13a-14 Certifications for a more complete understanding
of the topics presented.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 

None.

PART III 

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

The information required by this Item 10 relating to identification of directors is set forth
under the caption  Proposal 1. Election of Directors  in our Proxy Statement, which will be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days following the close of our 2006
fiscal year, and is incorporated herein by reference. Identification of officers is presented in
Item 1 of this report under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant. 

Information regarding audit committee financial experts serving on the Audit Committee of our
Board of Directors appears under the caption  The Board of Directors and Corporate Governance  in
our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Information regarding delinquent filers appears under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

We have adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that applies to all of our personnel
including our Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and principal
accounting officer. In addition, certain of our policies and other information regarding the Board
of Directors, including director qualifications and responsibilities, responsibilities of key Board
committees and director compensation, are set forth in our Principles of Corporate Governance and
the written charters of our five standing committees. The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, the
Principles of Corporate Governance, and the charters for each of these five standing
committees Audit, Compensation, Directors and Corporate Governance, Finance and Executive may be
viewed on our website: www.jlg.com. A copy of each of these documents is also available, free of
charge, upon request.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

The information required by this Item 11 relating to executive compensation is set forth under
the captions  Compensation of Directors ,  Report of the Compensation Committee  and  Executive
Compensation  in our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS 

The information required by this Item 12 relating to security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management is set forth in Item 5 of this report and under the caption  Voting
Securities and Principal Shareholders  in our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

None.

73 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

The information required by this Item 14 relating to principal accountant fees and services is
set forth under the caption  Proposal 2. Ratification of Independent Auditor  in our Proxy
Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV 

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a) (1) Financial Statements 

The consolidated financial statements of the registrant and its subsidiaries are set forth in
Item 8 of Part II of this report.

(2) Financial Statement Schedules 

The schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulation of the
Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instructions or are
inapplicable and, therefore, have been omitted.

(3) Exhibits 

The exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index are incorporated in this annual report
on Form 10-K by this reference and filed as part of this report.

(b) See   Item 15(a)   3 above. 

(c) See   Item 15(a)   1 and   15(a)   2 above. 

74 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized on October 2, 2006.

JLG INDUSTRIES, INC. 
(Registrant) 

/s/ William M. Lasky

William M. Lasky, Chairman of the Board,  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated
as of October 2, 2006.

/s/ James H. Woodward, Jr.

James H. Woodward, Jr., Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer

/s/John W. Cook

John W. Cook, Chief Accounting Officer

/s/ Roy V. Armes

Roy V. Armes, Director

/s/ Thomas P. Capo

Thomas P. Capo, Director

/s/ James A. Mezera

James A. Mezera, Director

/s/ Stephen Rabinowitz 

Stephen Rabinowitz, Director

75 

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  

3.1

Articles of Incorporation of JLG Industries, Inc.,
which appears as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Form 8-K
(File No. 1-12123 filed March 23, 2006), is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

3.2

By-laws of JLG Industries, Inc., which appear as
Exhibit 3 to the Company s Form 10-Q (File No.
1-12123  filed March 4, 2003), is hereby incorporated
by reference. 

4.1

Rights Agreement, dated as of May 24, 2000, between
JLG Industries, Inc. and American Stock Transfer and
Trust Company, which appears as Exhibit 1 to the
Company s Form 8-A12B (File No. 1-12123 filed May 31,
2000), is hereby incorporated by reference. 

4.2

Purchase Agreement, dated June 12, 2002, among JLG
Industries, Inc., the Note Guarantors, Wachovia
Securities, Inc., Credit Suisse First Boston
Corporation, J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., Banc One
Capital Markets, Inc., BMO Nesbitt Burns Corp., BNY
Capital Markets, Inc., and Credit Lyonnais Securities
(USA) Inc., which appears as Exhibit 1 to the
Company s Form S-4 (File No. 333-99217 filed September
6, 2002), is hereby incorporated by reference. 

4.3

Indenture dated June 17, 2002, by and among JLG
Industries, Inc., the Note Guarantors, and The Bank of
New York, as Trustee, which appears as Exhibit 4.1 to
the Company s Form S-4 (File No. 333-99217 filed
September 6, 2002), is hereby incorporated by
reference. 

4.4

Registration Rights Agreement, dated June 17, 2002, by
and among JLG Industries, Inc., the Note Guarantors,
and Wachovia Securities, Inc., Credit Suisse First
Boston Corporation, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Banc
One Capital Markets, Inc., BMO Nesbitt Burns Corp.,
BNY Capital Markets, Inc., and Credit Lyonnais
Securities (USA) Inc., which appears as Exhibit 4.2 to
the Company s Form S-4 (File No. 333-99217  filed
September 6, 2002), is hereby incorporated by
reference. 

4.5

Purchase Agreement, dated April 30, 2003, among JLG
Industries, Inc., the Note Guarantors (as defined
therein), the Initial Purchasers (as defined therein)
and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, which appears as
Exhibit 1 to the Company s Form S-4 (File No.
333-107468 filed July 30, 2003), is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

4.6

Indenture dated as of May 5, 2003, by and among JLG
Industries, Inc., the Note Guarantors party thereto,
and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, which appears as
Exhibit 4 to the Company s Form 10-Q (File No.
1-12123 filed May 29, 2003), is hereby incorporated by
reference. 

4.7

Registration Rights Agreement, dated May 5, 2003, by
and among JLG Industries, Inc., the Note Guarantors,
and Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, Deutsche Bank
Securities, Inc., Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., BMO
Nesbitt Burns Corp., Credit Lyonnais Securities (USA)
Inc., NatCity Investments, Inc., and SunTrust Capital
Markets, Inc., as Initial Purchasers, which appears as
Exhibit 4.2 to the Company s Form S-4 (File No.
333-107468 filed July 30, 2003), is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

76 

Table of Contents   

77 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  

10.11

Amendment to Revolving Credit
Agreement dated February 24, 2005,
among JLG Industries, Inc., the
several banks and other financial
institutions and lenders from time
to time party thereto, SunTrust
Bank, as Administrative Agent,
Issuing Bank and Swingline Lender,
Manufacturers and Traders Trust
Company, as Syndication Agent, and
Standard Federal Bank, N.A., as
Documentation Agent, which appears
as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s
Form 8-K (File No. 1-12123 filed
March 1, 2005), is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

10.12

Amended and Restated Revolving
Credit Agreement dated as of
November 30, 2005 among JLG
Industries, Inc., the several banks
and other financial institutions and
lenders from time to time party
hereto, SunTrust Bank, as Issuing
Bank, Swingline Lender and
Administrative Agent, Manufacturers
and Traders Trust Company, as
Syndication Agent, and LaSalle Bank
Midwest National Association, as
Documentation Agent, which appears
as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s
Form 8-K (File No. 1-12123 filed
December 6, 2005), is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

10.13

Form of Employee Stock Option
Agreement under the Long Term
Incentive Plan, which appears as
Exhibit 10.18 to the Company s Form
10-K (File No. 1-12123 filed October
6, 2004), is hereby incorporated by
reference. 

10.14

Amended and Restated Form of
Employee Restricted Stock Agreement
under the Long Term Incentive Plan,
which appears as Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company s Form 8-K (File No.
1-12123 filed July 28, 2005), is
hereby incorporated by reference. 

10.15

Form of Director Stock Option
Agreement under the Long Term
Incentive Plan, which appears as
Exhibit 10.18 to the Company s Form
10-K (File No. 1-12123 filed October
6, 2004), is hereby incorporated by
reference. 

10.16

Form of Director Restricted Stock
Agreement under the Long Term
Incentive Plan, which appears as
Exhibit 10.18 to the Company s Form
10-K (File No. 1-12123 filed October
6, 2004), is hereby incorporated by
reference. 

10.17

JLG Industries, Inc. Restated Annual
Management Incentive Plan, which
appears as Exhibit 10.2 to the
Company s Form 10-Q (File No.
1-12123    filed November 22,
2005), is hereby incorporated by
reference. 

10.18

Form of Performance Share Agreement
under the Long Term Incentive Plan,
which appears as Exhibit 10.2 to the
Company s Form 8-K (File No.
1-12123 filed July 28, 2005), is
hereby incorporated by reference. 

10.19

Summary of JLG Industries, Inc. s
Non-Employee Directors Compensation
Program, which appears as Exhibit
10.1 to the Company s Form 8-K (File
No. 1-12123 filed December 1, 2004),
is hereby incorporated by reference. 

10.20

Summary of JLG Industries, Inc. s
2007 Base Salaries, which appears in
the Company s Form 8-K (File No.
1-12123 filed July 25, 2006), is
hereby incorporated by reference. 

10.21

Strategic Alliance Agreement, dated
as of October 27, 2005, by and
between JLG Industries, Inc. and
Caterpillar Inc, which appears as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Form
8-K (File No. 1-12123 filed November
2, 2005), is hereby incorporated by
reference. 

78 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  

10.22

Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 27,
2005, by and among JLG Industries, Inc., Caterpillar
S.A.R.L., Caterpillar (U.K.) Limited, Caterpillar
Inc., and certain other Caterpillar Inc. affiliates,
which appears as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Form
8-K (File No. 1-12123 filed November 2, 2005), is
hereby incorporated by reference. 

10.23

Summary of JLG Industries, Inc. s Restated Annual
Management Incentive Plan, which appears in the
Company s Form 8-K (File No. 1-12123 filed September
5, 2006), is hereby incorporated by reference. 

12

Statement Regarding Computation of Ratios 

21

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

23

Consent of Independent Auditors 

31.1

Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

31.2

Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

32.1

Section 906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

32.2

Section 906 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

79 

<EX-12>
 2
 l22429aexv12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

Exhibit 12 

CALCULATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
(in millions) 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 3
 l22429aexv21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

Exhibit 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT 

Listed below are our subsidiaries as of the date of this report. Names of certain inactive or minor
subsidiaries have been omitted. All listed subsidiaries are wholly owned by us.

Jurisdiction of  

Subsidiary  
       
      Incorporation  

Access Financial Solutions, Inc.

Maryland 

Fulton International, Inc.

Delaware 

JLG Deutschland, GmbH

Germany 

JLG Equipment Services, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

JLG Equipment Services Ltd.

Hong Kong 

JLG Europe BV

Netherlands 

JLG France SAS

France 

JLG Industries (Italia) S.r.L

Italy 

JLG Industries (Norge) AS

Norway 

JLG Industries (Proprietary) Ltd.

South Africa 

JLG Industries (United Kingdom) Ltd.

United Kingdom 

JLG Latino Americana Ltda

Brazil 

JLG Manufacturing Europe BVBA

Belgium 

JLG Manufacturing Services Europe Maatschap

Belgium 

JLG OmniQuip, Inc.

Delaware 

JLG Polaska Sp z.o.o

Poland 

JLG Sverige AB

Sweden 

Platformas Elevadoras JLG Iberica S.L

Spain 

Premco Products Inc.

Delaware 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 l22429aexv23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

Exhibit 23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors 
JLG Industries, Inc. 
McConnellsburg, PA 17233

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements of JLG
Industries, Inc.:

of our reports dated September 15, 2006 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of
JLG Industries, Inc., JLG Industries, Inc. management s assessment of effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting of JLG Industries, Inc., included in the Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended
July 31, 2006.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

Baltimore, Maryland 
September 29, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 l22429aexv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1 

Sarbanes-Oxley Section 302 Certification 

I, William M. Lasky, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of JLG Industries, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this annual
report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: October 2, 2006 

/s/ William M. Lasky

William M. Lasky  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 l22429aexv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2 

Sarbanes-Oxley Section 302 Certification 

I, James H. Woodward, Jr., certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of JLG Industries, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this annual
report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: October 2, 2006 

/s/ James H. Woodward, Jr.

James H. Woodward, Jr.  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 l22429aexv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

Pursuant to the requirements set forth in Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. 1350), the
undersigned, in his capacity as the Chief Executive Officer of JLG Industries, Inc. (the
 Company ), hereby certifies, to the best of his knowledge:

(1) The annual report of the Company on Form 10-K for the period ended July 31, 2006,
to which this certification is attached as Exhibit 32.1 (the  Report ), fully complies with
the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and result of operations of the Company at the end of and for the
period covered by the Report.

/s/ William M. Lasky

William M. Lasky  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  
October 2, 2006  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and
is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document. This certification
shall not be deemed  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended ( Exchange Act ), or otherwise subject to liability under that section. This certification
shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act except, to the extent this Exhibit 32.1 is specifically
incorporated by reference in any such filing.

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to JLG
Industries, Inc. and will be retained by JLG Industries, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 l22429aexv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2

EX-32.2 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

Pursuant to the requirements set forth in Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. 1350), the
undersigned, in his capacity as the Chief Financial Officer of JLG Industries, Inc. (the
 Company ), hereby certifies, to the best of his knowledge:

(1) The annual report of the Company on Form 10-K for the period ended July 31, 2006,
to which this certification is attached as Exhibit 32.2 (the  Report ), fully complies with
the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and result of operations of the Company at the end of and for the
period covered by the Report.

/s/ James H. Woodward, Jr.

James H. Woodward, Jr.  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
October 2, 2006  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and
is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document. This certification
shall not be deemed  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended ( Exchange Act ), or otherwise subject to liability under that section. This certification
shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act except, to the extent this Exhibit 32.2 is specifically
incorporated by reference in any such filing.

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to JLG
Industries, Inc. and will be retained by JLG Industries, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.2>

