<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061016_10-K_edgar_data_19446_0001104659-06-066838_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2669550</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>335761</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1564919</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>56</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-066838.hdr.sgml : 20061016
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061016170852
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-066838
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060731
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061016
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061016

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CANTEL MEDICAL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000019446
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS [3841]
		IRS NUMBER:				221760285
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-31337
		FILM NUMBER:		061146947

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		OVERLOOK AT GREAT NOTCH
		STREET 2:		150 CLOVE ROAD
		CITY:			LITTLE FALLS
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07424
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9734708700

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		OVERLOOK AT GREAT NOTCH
		STREET 2:		150 CLOVE ROAD
		CITY:			LITTLE FALLS
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07424

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CANTEL INDUSTRIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STENDIG INDUSTRIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19890425

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CHARVOZ CARSEN CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19861215

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WW1UvnaEy0hkCOhscpDL+nDa1i2VEusjWaiYH1l5n0x8k+QKvUjhDWC8KFsWJ67A
 4ZbFUVFHmwn4d/9CdCN3gQ==

 0001104659-06-066838.txt : 20061016

10-K
 1
 a06-21307_210k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   
 Washington, D.C. 20549  

   Form 10-K   

For the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006   

   or   

For the
transition period from                   
to                      

   Commission
File No. 001-31337   

   CANTEL
MEDICAL CORP. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware  

22-1760285   

(State or other
  jurisdiction of  

(I.R.S. employer  

incorporation or
  organization)  

identification
  no.)  

150
  Clove Road, Little Falls,  New Jersey   

07424   

(Address of
  principal executive offices)  

(Zip code)  

Registrant s
telephone number, including area code:  (973) 890-7220   

  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Name of
  each exchange   

Title of
  each class   

on which
  registered   

Common Stock,
  $.10 par value  

New York Stock
  Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None   

  Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act.   Yes    o     No   x  

  Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act.   Yes    o     No   x  

  Indicate by check
mark whether registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports) and (2) has been subject to the filing requirements for the past
90 days.   Yes    x     No   o  

  Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    o  

  Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  

Large accelerated filer  o  

A ccelerated filer    x  

Non-accelerated
  filer   o  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act).   Yes    o     No   x  

  State the
aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant, based on shares held and the closing price of
a share of the Registrant s common stock on January 31, 2006, the last business
day of the Registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, as
quoted by the New York Stock Exchange on that date: $204,877,350.  

  Indicate the
number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant s classes of common
stock as of the close of business on September 18, 2006: 15,524,903  

  Documents incorporated by
reference:  Definitive proxy statement to
be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 in connection with the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of
Registrant.  

Forward
Looking Statements   

   This
Annual Report on Form 10-K contains  forward-looking statements  as that term
is defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and
releases issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) and
within the meaning of  Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the  Securities Act ) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, or forecasts
about our businesses, the industries in which we operate, and the beliefs and
assumptions of management; they do not relate strictly to historical or current
facts. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using
words such as  expect,   anticipate,   goal,   project,   intend,   plan,   believe, 
 seek,    may,   could,  and variations
of such words and similar expressions. In addition, any statements that refer
to predictions or projections of our future financial performance, anticipated
growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future
events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned
that these forward-looking statements are only predictions about future events,
activities or developments and are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties,
and assumptions that are difficult to predict including, among other things,
the following:  

                        the increasing market share of single-use dialyzers relative to reuse
dialyzers 

                        the adverse impact of consolidation
of dialysis providers 

                        uncertainties related to our
assumption of direct sales and service of Medivators endoscope reprocessing products in the United States on August
2, 2006 

                        our dependence on a concentrated number of distributors for our dental
segment products 

                        our dependence on acquiring new businesses and successfully integrating
and operating such businesses  

                        the uncertain outcome of plaintiff s appeal of Summary Judgment
dismissing a lawsuit filed against us that alleged violations of federal
antitrust laws 

                        foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations 

                        the impact of significant government
regulation on our businesses 

  You should understand that it is not
possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not
consider the foregoing items to be a complete list of all potential risks or
uncertainties. See  Risk Factors  below for a discussion of the above risk
factors and certain additional risk factors that you should consider before
investing in the shares of our common stock.  

  All forward-looking statements herein
speak only as of the date of this Report. We expressly disclaim any obligation
or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any
forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in our
expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or
circumstances on which any such statement is based.   

  For these
statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking
statements contained in Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of
the Exchange Act.  

2     

PART
I     

   Item 1.                    BUSINESS .   

   General   

  We are a leading provider of infection prevention and
control products in the healthcare market, specializing in the
following operating segments:  

                        Dialysis:
Medical device reprocessing systems, sterilants/disinfectants, dialysate
concentrates and other supplies for renal dialysis. 

                        Dental:
Single-use, infection control products used principally in the
dental market including face masks, towels and bibs, tray covers, saliva
ejectors, germicidal wipes, plastic cups, sterilization pouches and
disinfectants. 

                        Endoscope
Reprocessing: Medical device reprocessing systems and sterilants/disinfectants
for endoscopy. 

                        Water
Purification and Filtration: Water purification equipment and services,
filtration and separation products, and disinfectants for the medical,
pharmaceutical, biotech and other industrial markets. 

                        Therapeutic
Filtration: Hollow fiber membrane filtration and separation technologies for
medical applications. (Included in All Other reporting segment) 

                        Specialty
Packaging: Specialty packaging and thermal control products, as well as related
compliance training, for the transport of infectious and biological specimens
and thermally sensitive pharmaceutical, medical and other products. (Included
in All Other reporting segment) 

  Most of our
equipment, consumables and supplies are used to help prevent the occurrence or
spread of infections.  

  Throughout this
document, references to  Cantel,   us,   we,   our,  and the  Company  are
references to Cantel Medical Corp. and its subsidiaries, except where the
context makes it clear the reference is to Cantel itself and not its
subsidiaries.   

   Recent Events    

    Discontinued
Operations -Termination of Carsen s Distribution Agreements with Olympus    

   On July 31 , 2006, our wholly-owned subsidiary Carsen Group Inc.
( Carsen ) closed the sale of substantially all of its assets to Olympus
America Inc. and certain of its affiliates (collectively,  Olympus ) under an
Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of May 16, 2006 among Carsen, Cantel and
Olympus. Olympus purchased substantially all of Carsen s assets other than
those related to Carsen s Medivators business and certain other smaller product
lines. Following the closing, Olympus hired substantially all of Carsen s
employees and took over Carsen s Olympus-related operations (as well as the
operations related to the other   

3     

acquired product
lines). In connection with the transaction, Carsen s Medivators-related assets
as well as certain of its other assets that were not acquired by Olympus were
sold to our new Canadian distributor of Medivators products.   

  The purchase price for the net assets sold to Olympus
was approximately $31,200,000, comprised of a fixed sum of $10,000,000 plus an
additional formula-based sum of $21,200,000. In addition, Olympus will pay
Carsen 20% of Olympus  revenues attributable to Carsen s unfilled customer
orders as of July 31, 2006 that were assumed by Olympus at the closing. Such
payments to Carsen (currently anticipated to be approximately $450,000) will be
made following Olympus  receipt of customer payments for such orders.  

  The $10,000,000 fixed portion of the purchase price
was in consideration for (i) Carsen s customer lists, sales records, and
certain other assets related to the sale and servicing of Olympus products and
certain non-Olympus products distributed by Carsen, (ii) the release of Olympus 
contractual restriction on hiring Carsen personnel, (iii) real property leases
(which were assumed or replaced by Olympus) and leasehold improvements,
computer and software systems, equipment and machinery, telephone systems, and
records related to the acquired assets, and (iv) assisting Olympus in effecting
a smooth transition of Carsen s business of distributing and servicing Olympus
and certain non-Olympus products in Canada. Cantel has also agreed (on behalf
of itself and its affiliates) not to manufacture, distribute, sell or represent
for sale in Canada through July 31, 2007 any products that are competitive with
the Olympus products formerly sold by Carsen under its Olympus Distribution
Agreements.  

  The $21,200,000 formula-based portion of the purchase
price was based on the book value of Carsen s inventories of Olympus and
certain non-Olympus products and the net book amount of Carsen s accounts
receivable and certain other assets, all at July 31, 2006, subject to offsets,
particularly for accounts payable of Carsen due to Olympus.    

  Net proceeds from Carsen s sale of net assets and the
termination of Carsen s operations were approximately $21,100,000 (excluding
the backlog payments) after satisfaction of remaining liabilities and taxes.  

  As a result of the foregoing transaction, which
coincided with the expiration of Carsen s exclusive distribution agreements
with Olympus on July 31, 2006, Carsen no longer has any remaining product lines
or active business operations.  

  The businesses of Carsen, previously reported in the
Endoscopy and Surgical, Endoscope Reprocessing and All Other reporting
segments, are reflected as a discontinued operation in our Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

    Direct Sale of Medivators Systems in the United States    

  On August 2, 2006,
we commenced the sale and service of our Medivators brand endoscope
reprocessing equipment, high-level disinfectants, cleaners and consumables
through our own United States field sales and service organization. Our direct
sale of these products is the result of our decision that it is in our best
long-term interests to control and further develop our own direct
hospital-based United States distribution network and, as such, not to renew
Olympus  exclusive   

4     

United States
distribution agreement when it expired on August 1, 2006.  

  Throughout the former distribution arrangement with
Olympus, we employed our own personnel to provide clinical sales support
activities as well as an internal technical and customer service function,
depot maintenance and service and all logistics and distribution services for
the Medivators/Olympus customer base. This existing and fully developed
infrastructure will continue to be a critical factor in our new direct sales
and service strategy. See   Reporting Segments Endoscope Reprocessing.   

  During the
seven-year period following the expiration of the distribution agreement with
Olympus on August 1, 2006, Olympus will have the option to provide certain
ongoing support functions to its existing customer base of Medivators products,
subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement. In addition, Olympus may
continue to purchase from Minntech for resale in connection with such support
functions, Medivators accessories, consumables, and replacement and repair
parts, as well as Rapicide     disinfectant. 

    Acquisition of Fluid Solutions,
Inc.    

  On May 1, 2006, we expanded our infection prevention
and control business in water purification by purchasing certain assets of
Fluid Solutions, Inc., a privately held high purity water systems manufacturer
and service company with a resin
regeneration facility. The assets and operations of Fluid Solutions,
based in Lowell, Massachusetts, have been integrated into our Water
Purification and Filtration segment. See   Reporting Segments-Water
Purification and Filtration  and  Note 3
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

  The primary reason
for the acquisition was to expand our customer base in the biotech,
pharmaceutical, research, hospital, and semiconductor markets as well as our
sales presence and resin regeneration capability in the New England area.  

    Acquisition of Crosstex
International, Inc.    

  On August 1, 2005,
we acquired Crosstex International, Inc. ( Crosstex ), a leading manufacturer
and reseller of single-use, infection control products used principally in the
dental market. See   Reporting Segments-Dental  and Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

5     

Reporting Segments 

The following table gives
information as to the percentage of consolidated net sales from continuing
operations accounted for by each of our reporting segments:  

The table above
does not include information related to the operations of Carsen, which are
reflected as a discontinued operation in our Consolidated Financial Statements.  

  For a presentation
of net sales, net income and total assets by reporting segment, see Note 18 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

    Dialysis    

    General    

  We design,
develop, manufacture and sell reprocessing systems and sterilants for dialyzers
(artificial kidneys), as well as dialysate concentrates and supplies utilized
for renal dialysis. These products are sold in the United States and, to a
significantly lesser extent, throughout the world. Our customer base is
comprised of large and small dialysis chains as well as independent dialysis
clinics. We sell the products in the United States primarily through our own
direct distribution network, and in many international markets either directly
or under various third-party distribution agreements.  

    Dialyzer
Reprocessing Products and Services    

  During dialysis, a
dialyzer (a device serving as an artificial kidney) is used to filter fluids
and wastes from a dialysis patient s blood. Our dialyzer reprocessing products
are limited to use by centers that choose to clean, disinfect and reuse
dialyzers, known as  dialyzer reuse,  rather than discard the dialyzers after a
single use. Our products meet rigorous sterility assurance standards and
regulations, thereby providing for the safe and effective reuse of dialyzers
used in dialysis clinics.  

  Dialysis centers
in the United States that reuse dialyzers derive an economic benefit since the
per-procedure cost is less when utilizing dialyzer reuse compared with single
use and such dialysis clinics generally receive a capitated payment for
providing hemodialysis treatment. Although public information is not available
to accurately quantify the number of dialysis centers currently employing
dialyzer reuse versus single use, it is apparent that the market share of
single use dialyzers has been increasing during the past five years relative to
reuse dialyzers.  

6     

We believe that
approximately 40% of all dialysis centers in the United States currently reuse
dialyzers. This compares to approximately 76% reuse reported by the Centers for
Disease Control in 2001. We believe that the shift from reuse to single use
dialyzers is principally due to the commitment of Fresenius Medical Care ( Fresenius ),
the largest dialysis chain in the United States and a manufacturer of
single-use dialyzers, to convert all of its reuse dialysis clinics (including
newly acquired clinics) to single use facilities. A continued decrease in
dialyzer reuse in the United States in favor of single use dialyzers could have
a further adverse effect on our business. See  Risk Factors.   

  Our dialyzer
reprocessing products include the Renatron     II
Automated Dialyzer Reprocessing System, the Renalog    RM
Data Management System and the Renaclear    Dialyzer Cleaning
System, together with Renalin    Cold Sterilant and Renalin 100 Cold Sterilant,
peracetic acid based sterilants that replace less environmentally friendly
products. 

  The Renatron
system provides an automated method of rinsing, cleaning, sterilizing and
testing dialyzers for reuse. The Renatron II Automated Dialyzer Reprocessing
System, the most current version of the product, includes a bar-code reader, a
computer and the Renalog RM Data Management System, a software accessory that
provides dialysis centers with automated record keeping and data analysis
capabilities. We believe our Renatron systems are faster, easier to use, and
more efficient than competitive automated systems. We also believe that the
Renatron systems are the top selling automated dialyzer reprocessing systems in
the world.  

  Our Renaclear
system, the first dedicated automated dialyzer cleaning system, removes blood
and organic debris from difficult-to-clean dialyzers before reprocessing, a
process known as  pre-cleaning.  Pre-cleaning is common in dialysis units
because the practice can help extend the useful clinical life of a dialyzer.
When dialyzers are pre-cleaned by hand, many dialysis facilities remove the
dialyzer header caps (the end caps of a dialyzer) to more effectively rinse out
heavy blood debris. However, opening the dialyzer in this fashion may increase
the risk of contamination of the dialyzer components and damage to the dialyzer
membrane. The Renaclear system features a high-powered fluid injector that
cleans dialyzer headers (the two internal ends of a dialyzer) without requiring
removal of the header caps. The Renaclear system is designed for use with our peracetic
acid-based Renaclear disinfectant.  

  Our Renalin 100
sterilant is a proprietary peracetic acid-based formula that, when used with
our Renatron system, effectively cleans, disinfects and sterilizes dialyzers
without the hazardous fumes and potential disposal issues related to
glutaraldehyde and formaldehyde reprocessing solutions. We believe Renalin
sterilant is the leading dialyzer reprocessing solution in the United States.  

  We also
manufacture a comprehensive product line of test strips to measure concentration
levels of the peracetic acid chemistries we produce. These test strips ensure
that the appropriate concentration of sterilant is maintained throughout the
required contact period, in addition to verifying that all sterilant has been
removed from the dialyzer prior to patient use. In addition, we sell a variety
of dialysis supplies manufactured by third parties.  

  Our Dialysis
segment offers various preventative maintenance programs and repair services to
support the effective operation of reprocessing systems over their lifetime.
Our field service personnel, dialysis center technicians and international
third-party distributors install, maintain,   

7     

upgrade, repair and
troubleshoot equipment.  

    Dialysate Concentrates    

  Our renal dialysis
treatment products include a line of acid and bicarbonate concentrates,
referred to as dialysate concentrates, used by kidney dialysis centers to
prepare dialysate, a chemical solution that draws waste products from the
patient s blood through a dialyzer membrane during the hemodialysis treatment.
Dialysate concentrates are used in the dialysis process, whether single use or
reuse dialyzers are being utilized. We believe that we have one of the industry s
most complete lines of dialysate concentrate products, which include both
liquid and powder form for use in virtually all types of kidney dialysis
machines.  

    Dental    

  On August 1, 2005,
we acquired Crosstex, a leading manufacturer and reseller of single-use,
infection control products used principally in the dental market. As a result
of the acquisition, we now offer a broad selection of core disposable dental
products, comprising over 60 categories of dental merchandise, including face masks, towels and bibs, tray covers, saliva evacuators and ejectors, germicidal wipes, plastic cups, sterilization pouches, surface barriers, eyewear,
disinfectants and cleaners, hand care products, gloves, sponges, cotton
products, needles and syringes, and scalpels and blades. We believe that we
maintain a leading market position in the United States for face masks, towels
and bibs, tray covers, saliva ejectors, germicidal wipes and plastic cups used
in the dental market.  

  We manufacture
products accounting for approximately two-thirds of our net sales in this
segment. We source the balance of our products from third-party suppliers,
certain of which are sold under exclusive distributorship agreements with the
supplier. Since the acquisition, we have increased our manufacturing capability
of certain key products and commenced the manufacture of certain products and
product components that we previously sourced. The majority of our dental
products are sold under the Crosstex     brand name. For certain of our customers, we
also produce private label products. 

  Our dental
products are sold to approximately 350 wholesale customers, comprising
approximately 1,200 ship-to locations in the United States and, to a lesser
extent, in Europe and Japan. The wholesalers generally include major healthcare
distributors, group purchasing organizations and co-operatives that sell our
products to dental practices as well as medical, veterinary, and school
locations.  

    Water Purification and Filtration    

    General    

  We design,
develop, manufacture and sell water purification systems and accessories for
dialysis, research laboratories, pharmaceutical and industrial customers. These
systems provide purification solutions specific to our customers  needs and
site conditions, ranging from low-volume, wall mounted reverse osmosis systems,
to high-volume, complete turnkey purification systems. We generally sell the
equipment directly to our customers in the United States, Puerto Rico, and
Canada and through various third-party distributors in international markets.  

8     

Purification
systems can include combinations of treatment methods such as (i) carbon
filtration, which removes chlorine and dissolved organic contamination by
adsorption; (ii) reverse osmosis (RO), which is a filtration process that
forces liquid through non-porous or semi-porous membranes to remove particles,
microorganisms and dissolved minerals and organics; (iii) ultra-filtration,
which removes bacteria, viruses and other ultrafine impurities from water using
a membrane similar in design to a reverse osmosis membrane; (iv) deionization,
which is an ion exchange platform that requires resin regeneration (see  Resin
Regeneration  below); and (v) electro-deionization, which is a form of
deionization that is based on the conductance of electrical charges.  

    Water
Purification Equipment    

  Our line of Biolab     Equipment water purification systems has been
designed to produce  biologically pure  water for use in the pharmaceutical,
electronics, research and medical industries. The equipment is designed in
sanitary and semi-sanitary configurations to provide efficient and reliable production
of USP grade water (i.e., water meeting the FDA-enforced standards of the
United States Pharmacopeia). The Biolab Equipment line includes systems that
utilize heat to sanitize the equipment, thus reducing the amount of chemicals
consumed and labor required for maintenance. Heat sanitization is
environmentally friendly and prevents the formation of dangerous biofilms. Heat
disinfection has been used in the pharmaceutical industry for years and has
been recently introduced in the dialysis market. 

  The Biolab
Equipment line of RO machines includes various designs and sizes to meet our
customers  specific requirements. Our standard line of equipment includes the
2200, 3300, 4400, 8400, RODI     combination RO and
electro-deionization system, and various heat disinfecting configurations. The
4400 RO is the principal RO manufactured by us and can be configured for
pharmaceutical, medical and industrial applications. The Biolab Equipment line
has recently been expanded to offer packaged systems for the commercial and
industrial market. These systems are pre-engineered for specific applications
and will be stocked for rapid order fulfillment. 

  We also offer
pretreatment equipment, lab water equipment, a full range of service
deionization tanks and specific equipment designed to support the dialysis
market. This equipment includes our Semper Pure     portable reverse osmosis machine, a
bicarbonate system with central and single mix distribution units, and
concentrate systems with central concentrate holding tanks. 

  Our systems meet water quality and good manufacturing
practice standards of the Association for the Advancement of Medical
Instrumentation ( AAMI ). We have received 510(k) clearances from the FDA for
our Biolab purification equipment for healthcare applications and for our
dialysis water purification systems, bicarbonate mix and distribution systems
and the Semper Pure machine.  

    Service
  Maintenance; Resin Regeneration    

  We provide service
and maintenance for water purification systems in the United States and Canada
through fifteen regional offices (thirteen in the United States and two in
Canada). These service centers are staffed with sales and service personnel to
support both scheduled and emergency customer requirements. Each office
provides 24-hour emergency service for our   

9     

customers through a fleet
of stocked service vehicles. Six of the offices (Toronto, Montreal,
Philadelphia, Boston, Chicago, and Atlanta) are equipped with resin
regeneration plants (described below).  

  Resin regeneration
(also known as service deionization and carbon exchange) is the process in
which cylinders (pressure vessels with an inlet connection and an outlet
connection) are assembled, sanitized, and filled with ion exchange resin, which
is processed using hydrochloric acid and caustic soda. These cylinders are
connected to a customer s water supply. As the water passes through the ion
exchange resin beads, minerals are removed. When the electrical charge placed
on the resin beads during the regeneration process is exhausted, the cylinders
are exchanged for identical cylinders with regenerated resin. The cylinders
with exhausted resin are returned by service personnel to our regeneration
plants and the resin is regenerated for use by the same or another customer.
Customers are invoiced for each cylinder replacement.  

    Filtration    

   We offer a full line of filters utilizing  hollow fiber membrane
technology. The filters, sold under the FiberFlo     Capsule Filters and FiberFlo    Cartridge Filters names, are utilized to
remove impurities from liquid streams for a wide range of applications. Such
applications include the filtering of ultrapure water to remove bacteria and
endotoxins in medical environments to provide protection for patients
undergoing treatments that use ultrapure water. In fact, our cartridge filters
are validated to remove all endotoxins in dialysis water, which is included in
our registration of the filters as Medical Devices under FDA 510(k)
regulations. The filters are also used in medical device reprocessing systems
to help meet reprocessing water quality guidelines outlined by the AAMI. In
industrial applications, the filters are used to protect systems from
contamination from particulates and microorganisms. 

  Our FiberFlo
filters are also being used in a variety of industries including pharmaceutical
manufacturing, food and beverage processing, cosmetic manufacturing and
electronics manufacturing. The filters are being used increasingly for the
removal of bacteria, pyrogens and other contaminants from aqueous solutions.
These filters are engineered for point-of-use applications that require very
fine filtration. Their hollow fiber design provides a surface area that is up
to four times larger than traditional pleated filters that are used in the same
markets. The large surface area provides greater capacity and longer filter
life for the customer. FiberFlo Capsule Filters and Cartridge Filters are
available in a variety of styles, sizes, and configurations to meet a
comprehensive range of customer needs and applications.  

  Other FiberFlo
filter products include the FiberFlo Degassing Module, which was developed and
is used in semiconductor, pharmaceutical, laboratory, medical and bioprocessing
applications for CO2 and O2 removal, humidification, oxygenation and dissolving
of gases in solutions. Other products include microfiber and flat sheet
membrane prefiltration products designed to protect the FiberFlo filter
products and prolong their life in their intended applications.  

  FiberFlo filter
products are sold directly and through various third-party distributors in the
United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, and other international markets.  

10     

Sterilants    

  Minncare     Cold Sterilant is a liquid sterilant product
used to sanitize and disinfect high-purity water systems. Minncare Cold
Sterilant is based on our proprietary peracetic acid sterilant technology, and
is engineered to clean and disinfect reverse osmosis (RO) membranes and
associated water distribution systems. Minncare Cold Sterilant is widely used
in the dialysis, medical, pharmaceutical and other industries to disinfect
ultrapure water systems as part of overall procedures to control the
contamination of systems by microorganisms and spores. Actril    Cold Sterilant is a ready-to-use formulation
of our proprietary peracetic acid based sterilant technology. It is used for
surface disinfection in a variety of industries, including the medical and
pharmaceutical industries. We also have private label agreements for both
Minncare and Actril sterilants with companies in the infection control industry. 

  During 2005 we
introduced the Minncare Dry Fog      System for use as an enhancement to the
existing clean room disinfection procedures at pharmaceutical and medical
device manufacturers. We currently sell the Minncare Dry Fog System either
directly or through third-party distributors. However, due to disappointing
sales of the system, we are reevaluating our distribution options and
considering the discontinuance of the product line. 

    Endoscope Reprocessing        

    General    

  We design,
develop, manufacture and sell endoscope reprocessing systems, sterilants and
related supplies. Although endoscopes generally can be manually disinfected,
there are many problems associated with such methods including the lack of
uniform disinfection procedures, personnel exposure to disinfectant fumes and
incomplete rinsing that could result in disinfectant residue remaining in or on
the endoscope. We   believe our
endoscope reprocessing equipment offers several advantages over manual
immersion in disinfectants. Our products, which meet rigorous sterility
assurance standards and regulations, allow the safe and effective reuse of
endoscopes in healthcare facilities throughout the world.  

  Our automated
endoscope reprocessing equipment is designed to pre-rinse the device, then
continuously pump disinfectant through all internal working channels of the
endoscope, thus exposing all internal and external areas of the endoscope to
the disinfectant, resulting in more thorough and consistent disinfection. After
disinfection, all internal channels and external surfaces are thoroughly rinsed
to completely remove disinfectant residue. This automated process inhibits the
build up of biofilms in the working channels and, when performed in accordance
with directions for use, renders the endoscope safe for the next patient use.
In addition, the entire disinfection process can be completed with minimal
participation by the operator, freeing the operator for other tasks, reducing
the exposure of personnel to the chemicals used in the disinfection process and
reducing the risk of infectious diseases. Our reprocessing equipment also
reduces the risks associated with inconsistent manual disinfecting.  

    Endoscope Reprocessing Products and Services    

  Our Medivators     line of endoscope reprocessing systems
includes two automated systems, the DSD-201 system, which is a
microprocessor-controlled, dual-basin, asynchronous endoscope 

11  

disinfection
system, and the SSD-102, which is a single basin version of the DSD-201 System.
These systems can be used on a broad variety of endoscopes and are programmable
by the user. The dual-basin system can disinfect two endoscopes at a time. We
also manufacture the Medivators CER (formerly MV) series of countertop
semi-automated endoscope reprocessors. These products are more compact, less
expensive single and dual endoscope disinfection units.  

  Our Dyped
endoscope reprocessing system represents a state-of-the-art, technologically
advanced system designed to be compliant with emerging European standards. We
commenced sales of Dyped systems in Europe in 2004 and are currently developing
a future generation system for the North American market for which we intend to
seek initial regulatory approval in 2007. When offered in North America (not
anticipated to occur until after fiscal 2007), the Dyped systems will be
integrated into our Medivators product line.  

  In connection with
our endoscope reprocessing business, we manufacture Rapicide     glutaraldehyde-based high-level disinfectant
and sterilant, which has United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA )
510(k) clearance for a high-level disinfection claim of five minutes at 35
degrees Celsius. This disinfection contact time is currently one of the fastest
available of any disinfectant product sold in the United States, which gives us
a competitive advantage. We also sell Adaspor    peracetic-acid based high-level disinfectant,
packaged by a third party, for the European market that can be employed in a
single-use or multiple-use system. 

  Our Endoscope
Reprocessing segment offers various preventative maintenance programs and
repair services to support the effective operation of reprocessing systems over
their lifetime. Our field service personnel and international third-party
distributors install, maintain, upgrade, repair and troubleshoot equipment.  

    Marketing
and Sales    

  On August 2, 2006,
we commenced the sale and service of our Medivators brand endoscope reprocessing
equipment, high-level disinfectants, cleaners and consumables through our own
United States field sales and service organization. Our direct sale of these
products is the result of our decision that it is in our best long-term
interest to control and further develop our own direct hospital-based United
States distribution network and, as such, not to renew Olympus  exclusive
United States distribution agreement when it expired on August 1, 2006.  

  Throughout the
former distribution arrangement with Olympus, we employed our own personnel to
provide clinical sales support activities as well as an internal technical and
customer service function, depot maintenance and service and all logistics and
distribution services for the Medivators/Olympus customer base. This existing
and fully developed infrastructure will continue to be a critical factor in our
new direct sales and service strategy. Outside of the United States, the
Medivators group has direct sales, marketing, and service capabilities in the
United Kingdom and Holland, and sells through independent distribution partners
in the rest of Europe, Canada, Asia, Australia, and Latin America.  

12     

All
Other    

  We also operate
other businesses, including the Specialty Packaging operating segment, which
includes specialty packaging products and compliance training services for the
transport of infectious and biological specimens, and the Therapeutic
Filtration operating segment, which includes hemofilters, hemoconcentrators and
other hollow fiber filters manufactured and sold for medical applications. Due
to the relatively small size of these businesses, they are combined in the All
Other reporting segment.  

    Specialty Packaging    

  We provide
specialty packaging and thermal control products for the transport of
infectious and biological specimens as well as thermally sensitive
pharmaceutical and medical products. Additionally, we provide compliance
training services for the safe and proper transport of infectious and
biological specimens, as defined by various international and national
regulatory organizations.  

  We believe that
the increasing concern over the potential spread of infectious agents, such as
avian flu, E. coli and mad cow disease, as well as potential acts of  bio-terrorism using agents such as anthrax,
have significantly increased awareness of the proper shipping of diagnostic
substances such as blood and tissues. We believe that we are particularly well
qualified to meet the global need for compliant, secure, cost-effective
packaging solutions for the shipping of infectious and biological specimens.  

  Throughout fiscal
2006, we continued the development, production and sales of the Saf-T-Temp 
brand line of phase change materials (PCM) using licensed proprietary thermal
technology for temperature-controlled shipments. These phase change materials
help maintain thermally sensitive specimens and products, such as vaccines,
pharmaceuticals, and diagnostic reagents within a discrete temperature range
during shipment. The discipline of  Cold Chain Management  continues to grow as
manufacturers of temperature sensitive pharmaceuticals and medical products as
well as clinical laboratories search for more efficient and cost-effective
methods to ensure the viability of their products and/or specimens in
accordance with quality control standards.  

  In addition, to
meet regulatory requirements that require shippers of infectious and biological
substances to be trained and certified at least every two years or as often as
regulations change, we offer a variety of training options, allowing the
customer to choose the method that best meets its needs. We provide open
enrollment symposium-style training seminars in various cities, private seminar
training at customers  on-site locations, as well as self-paced internet, CD
and network software.  

   Our customer base consists of medical research companies, diagnostic,
clinical and university laboratories, pharmaceutical and biotechnical
companies, United States and Canadian government agencies, hospitals and state
public health departments. Our packaging, thermal and training products are
distributed  world wide both directly and 
through various third-party distributors.  

    Therapeutic
Filtration    

  Our therapeutic
filtration products are extracorporeal filters utilizing our proprietary hollow

13     

fiber technology. These
filters include hemoconcentrators, hemofilters and specialty filters utilized
for therapeutic medical applications. We also offer a line of ancillary
products, including blood pumps, air detectors, and pressure monitors.  

  We manufacture, market and sell a comprehensive line
of hemoconcentrators. A hemoconcentrator is a device used by a perfusionist (a
health care professional who operates heart-lung bypass equipment) to
concentrate red blood cells and remove excess fluid from the bloodstream during
open-heart surgery. Because the entire blood volume of the patient passes
through the hemoconcentrator during an open-heart procedure, the
biocompatibility of the blood-contact components of the device is critical.  

  Our hemoconcentrators are designed to meet the
clinical requirements of neonatal through adult patients. Our principal
products are the Hemocor HPH  hemoconcentrators, which contain our proprietary
polysulfone hollow fiber. The Hemocor HPH line also features a unique  no-rinse 
design that allows it to be quickly and efficiently inserted into the bypass
circuit at any time during an open-heart procedure.  

   We also manufacture, market
and sell a line of  Renaflo  II hemofilters. A hemofilter is a device
that performs hemofiltration in a slow, continuous blood filtration therapy
used to control fluid overload and acute renal failure in unstable, critically
ill patients who cannot tolerate the rapid filtration rates of conventional
hemodialysis. The hemofilter removes water, waste products and toxins from the
circulating blood of patients while conserving the cellular and protein content
of the patient s blood. Our hemofilter line features no-rinse, polysulfone
hollow fiber that requires minimal set-up time for healthcare professionals.
The hemofilter is available in five different sizes to meet the clinical needs
of neonatal through adult patients.  

  Historically, one of our most successful specialty
filters was sold on a private label basis to a manufacturer of a respiratory
therapy device that incorporates our filter in their product, particularly for
pediatric applications. Sales of this filter were a significant source of
growth in our Therapeutic Filtration segment. However, due to problems incurred
by the therapy device manufacturer (unrelated to our product) in fiscal 2006,
sales of our specialty filter decreased significantly during the last three
fiscal quarters. We anticipate that sales to the manufacturer will recommence
in the near future.  

  Our therapeutic
products are sold to biotech manufacturers and through third-party
distributors.  

   Government Regulation   

  Many of our products are subject to regulation by the
FDA, which regulates the testing, manufacturing, packaging, distribution and
marketing of our medical devices and water purification devices in the United
States. Delays in FDA review can significantly delay new product introduction
and may result in a product becoming  dated  or losing its market opportunity
before it can be introduced. Certain of our products may also be regulated by
other governmental or private agencies, including the Environmental Protection
Agency, Underwriters Lab, Inc. ( UL ), and comparable agencies in certain
foreign countries. The FDA and other agency clearances generally are required
before we can market such new or significantly changed existing products in the
United States or internationally. The FDA and certain other international
governmental agencies also have   

14     

the
authority to require a recall or modification of products in the event of a
defect.  

  The Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 and Safe
Medical Device Act of 1990 require compliance with specific manufacturing and
quality assurance standards for certain of our products. The regulations also
require manufacturers to establish a quality assurance program to monitor the
design and manufacturing process and maintain records that show compliance with
FDA regulations and the manufacturer s written specifications and procedures
relating to its medical devices. The FDA inspects medical device manufacturers
for compliance with the current Quality Systems Regulations ( QSR s ).
Manufacturers that fail to meet the QSR s may be issued reports or citations
for non-compliance. In April 2006, following an inspection by the FDA, the FDA
issued a  Warning Letter  that called our attention to certain  Good
Manufacturing Practices  compliance deficiencies. We have responded to the FDA s
comments and modified our procedures to comply with the requests made by the
FDA.  

  In addition, many
of our infection prevention and control products sold in Canada and Europe are
subject to comparable regulations and requirements as those described above.
International regulatory bodies often establish varying regulations governing
product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import
restrictions, tariff regulations, duties, and tax requirements. For example, as
a result of our sales in Europe, we were required to be certified as having a
Quality System that meets the ISO 13485-2003 standard.  

  Many of our products must also meet the requirements
of the European Medical Device Directive ( MDD ) for their sale into the
European Union. This certification allows us, upon completion of a
comprehensive technical file, to affix the CE mark to our products and to
freely distribute such products throughout the European Union. Failure to
maintain CE mark certification could have a material adverse effect on our
business. Federal, state and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and
sale of our products are subject to change. We cannot predict what impact, if
any, such changes might have on our business.  

  Our endoscope and dialyzer reprocessing products, as
well as our Canadian water purification equipment manufacturing facility and
many of our products manufactured in Canada, are subject to regulation by
Health Canada   Therapeutic Products Directorate ( TPD ), which regulates the
distribution and marketing of medical devices in Canada. Certain of such
products may be regulated by other governmental or private agencies, including
Canadian Standards Agency ( CSA ). TPD and other agency clearances generally
are required before we can market new medical products in Canada. The Health
Products and Food Branch Inspectorate ( HPFBI ) governs problem reporting,
modification and recalls. HPFBI also has the authority to require a recall or
modification in the event of defect. In order to market our medical products in
Canada, we are required to hold a Medical Device Establishment License, as well
as certain medical device licenses by product, as provided by HPFBI.  

  Certain of our specialty
packaging products have been independently tested by a third-party laboratory
and certified by Transport Canada. These certified packaging products as well
as our other specialty packaging products have been designed to meet all
applicable national and international standards for the safe transport of
infectious and biological substances. Such standards include those issued by
Canadian General Standards Board, Transport of Dangerous Goods Regulations
Canada, International Civil Aviation Organization, International Air Transport
Association, and the United States Code of Federal Regulations Title 49.  

15     

Federal, state and foreign regulations regarding the
manufacture and sale of our products are subject to change. We cannot predict
what impact, if any, such changes might have on our business.  

   Sources and Availability of Raw
Materials   

  We purchase raw materials, sub-assemblies, components,
and other supplies essential to our operations from numerous suppliers in the
United States and abroad. The principal raw materials that we use to conduct
operations include organic chemicals, paper pulp, resin, stainless steel and
plastic components. These raw materials are obtainable from several sources and
are generally available within the lead times specified to vendors.  

  From time to time we experience price
increases for raw materials, with no guarantee that such increases can be
passed along to our customers. Except as described below, we have not
experienced, and do not foresee, extraordinary difficulty in obtaining the
materials, sub-assemblies, components, or other supplies necessary for our
business operations.  

  As a result of damage caused by major hurricanes to
many resin suppliers in the southern United States, there was a shortage of
resin in the market, and related price increases, for several months during
fiscal 2006. However, since our resin inventory was sufficient to meet our
requirements, we were not materially affected by the market shortage. No market
shortage currently exists.  

   Intellectual Property   

  We
protect our technology and products by, among other means, filing United States
and foreign patent applications. There can be no assurance, however, that any
patent will provide adequate protection for the technology, system, product,
service, or process it covers. In addition, the process of obtaining and
protecting patents can be long and expensive. We also rely upon trade secrets,
technical know-how, and continuing technological innovation to develop and
maintain our proprietary position.  

  As of
September 18, 2006, we held 49 United States patents and 56 foreign patents and
had 8 United States patents and 21 foreign patents pending. Patents for
individual products extend for varying periods, beginning in 2006 and ending in
2023, according to the date of patent filing or grant and legal term of patents
in various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection
afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the
type of patent, the scope of its coverage, and the availability of legal
remedies in the country. We believe that the patents in each of our segments
are important. In addition, we license from independent third parties under
certain patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property, the right to
manufacture and sell our Rapicide disinfectant and sterilant (see   Reporting
Segments-Endoscope Reprocessing ) and our phase change material products (see   Reporting
Segments-Other-Specialty Packaging ). These licenses, both of which are
long-term, are critical to our commercialization of those products.  

  Our products are sold around the
world under various brand names and trademarks. We consider our brand names and
trademarks to be valuable in the marketing of our products in each segment. As
of September 18, 2006, we had a total of 358 trademark registrations in the
United   

16     

States and in various foreign countries in which we
conduct business, as well as 68 trademark applications pending world-wide.  

   Seasonality   

  Our business
generally is not seasonal in nature.  

   Principal Customers   

  None of our customers accounted for 10% or more of our
consolidated net sales from continuing operations during fiscal 2006 or fiscal
2005 except for Olympus America Inc., which was our exclusive distributor of
Medivators endoscope reprocessors and related accessories and supplies during
those periods. Olympus accounted for approximately 10%, 12% and 13%,
respectively, of our consolidated net sales from continuing operations during
fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  Except as described below, none of our segments is
reliant upon a single customer, or a few customers, the loss of any one or more
of which would have a material adverse effect on the segment.  

  Our Dental segment is particularly reliant on four
customers who collectively accounted for 48% of Dental segment net sales and
13% of our consolidated net sales from continuing operations during fiscal
2006. Three of such customers, Henry Schein, Benco Dental and Patterson Dental
each accounted for 10% or more of this segment s net sales during that period.
The loss of a significant amount of business from any of these customers could
have a material adverse effect on our Dental segment.  

  During fiscal 2006, two of our customers, DaVita and
Fresenius, accounted for approximately 25% and 19%, respectively, of the
Dialysis segment net sales. The 19% figure with respect to Fresenius includes
sales to dialysis centers formerly owned by Renal Care Group ( RCG ), a
dialysis chain acquired by Fresenius in March 2006. Due to Fresenius  intention
to convert all of its reuse dialysis clinics (including newly acquired clinics)
to single use facilities, our  RCG-related  sales to Fresenius will decrease
substantially as clinics are converted. The loss of a significant amount of
business from DaVita or Fresenius would have a material adverse effect on our
Dialysis segment. See   Competition  and  Risk Factors.   

   Backlog   

  On September 18, 2006, our consolidated backlog was
approximately $9,680,000 (including Crosstex backlog of approximately $863,000)
compared with approximately $8,043,000 (excluding any backlog generated by
Crosstex and Carsen) on September 19, 2005. All of the backlog is expected to
be recognized within one year of such date.  

   Competition   

    General    

  The markets in
which our business is conducted are highly competitive. Competition is   

17     

intense in all of our
business segments and includes many large and small competitors. Important
competitive factors generally include product design and quality, safety, ease
of use, product service, and price. We believe that the long-term competitive
position for all of our segments depends principally on our success in
developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative, cost-effective products and
services.  

  Many of our competitors have greater financial,
technical and human resources than us, are well-established with
reputations for success in the sale and service of their products and may have
certain other competitive advantages over us. However, we believe that the
world-wide reputation for the quality and innovation of our products
among customers and our reputation for providing quality product service give
us a competitive advantage with respect to our products.  

  In addition,
certain companies have developed or may be expected to develop new technologies
or products that could directly or indirectly compete with our products. We
anticipate that we may face increased competition in the future as new
infection prevention and control products and services enter the market.
Numerous organizations are believed to be working with a variety of
technologies and sterilizing agents. In addition, a number of companies have
developed or are developing disposable medical instruments and other devices
designed to address the risks of infection and contamination. There can be no
assurance that new products or services developed by our competitors will not
be more commercially successful than those provided or developed by us in the
future.  

    Segments    

  Information with
respect to competition within our most significant individual segments is as
follows:  

  In our Dialysis segment, our most significant
competition comes from manufacturers of single-use dialyzers, particularly
Fresenius, the largest dialysis chain in the United States and a manufacturer
of single-use dialyzers. Fresenius has publicly disclosed its  intent to increase the use of single-use
dialyzers in its dialysis clinics. As such, its acquisition in March
2006 of RCG, a significant dialysis chain and customer of our dialysis reuse
products, will adversely affect sales of our dialysis products and reprocessing
equipment as Fresenius converts RCG s dialysis clinics into single-use
facilities. See   Reporting Segments Dialysis,   Risk Factors  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations.  

  In our Dental segment, our principal competitors are
Kimberly-Clark, Tidi Products, Sultan Healthcare, Medicom, and Alcan. We
believe that our product quality, excellent customer service, and breadth of
product line are competitive advantages and are the basis for our success in
this segment.  

  In our Endoscope Reprocessing segment, our principal
competitors are STERIS, Custom Ultrasonics, ASP division of Johnson  
Johnson, Metrex, Ruhoff and Ecolab. ASP and Steris have recently introduced, or
within a year are anticipated to introduce, new model endoscope reprocessors
that will directly compete with our reprocessors and may adversely impact our
ability to maintain our current market share in this market.  

  The Water Purification and Filtration segment has been experiencing
increased competition   

18     

due
to a consolidation of suppliers during the past few years. This consolidation
has resulted principally from the acquisition by large industrial manufacturers
of many of the leading manufacturers of water purification equipment and
filtration products. The resulting entities such as  GE Water and Siemens
Water Technologies , which are the market
leaders in this industry, are significantly larger and have greater financial
and other resources available than the smaller companies in the industry such
as our Mar Cor Purification business. It remains difficult to assess the long
term impact of such consolidation on our business and to project such impact in
the future. In addition, this segment has experienced increased pricing
pressures in Canada in its resin regeneration business. We believe that our
ability to successfully compete in the water purification, filtration and disinfectant
market derives from our broad product offerings, our combination in fiscal 2005
of the sales and marketing efforts of our two water purification businesses
with our related filtration business to form our Mar Cor Purification business,
and the high value and quality of our products and services. We believe that by
focusing our efforts principally on the dialysis, pharmaceutical, medical and
industrial markets, providing a high level of customer service, and making
selective acquisitions, we can continue to grow this segment, despite the
continued industry consolidation and pricing pressures.   

   Research
and Development   

   Research and development expenses (which include
continuing engineering costs) increased by $1,018,000 to $5,117,000 in fiscal
2006 from $4,099,000 in fiscal 2005 . The majority of our research and
development expenses related to our Dyped endoscope reprocessor and specialty
filtration products. The increase in research and development expenses in
fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005 was primarily due to ongoing research and
development on those products.  

   Environmental Matters   

  We anticipate that the
effects of compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations
relating to the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise
relating to the protection of the environment, will not have any material
effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.  

   Employees   

  As of September 18, 2006, we employed 794 persons of
whom 617 are located in the United States, 96 are located in Canada, 62 are
located in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, and 19 are located in the Far
East. None of our employees are represented by labor unions. We consider our
relations with our employees to be satisfactory.  

   Financial
Information about Geographic Areas   

   We have  operations in Canada, Europe, Asia and other areas outside
of the United States. These operations are conducted through our subsidiaries
and involve the same business segments as our domestic operations. For a
geographic presentation of revenues and other financial data for the three
years ended July 31, 2006, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

  Our foreign operations are subject, in varying
degrees, to a number of inherent risks. These risks include, among other
things, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls and
currency restrictions, changes in local economic conditions, unsettled
political, regulatory or business conditions, and government-sponsored boycotts
and tariffs on the Company s products or   

19     

services.  

  Depending on the direction of change relative to the
U.S. dollar, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations can increase or reduce
the reported dollar amounts of the Company s net assets and results of
operations. Although net income during fiscal 2006 was favorably impacted as a
result of foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar, we cannot
predict future changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the effect they
will have on our operations.  

   Available
Information   

  We make available to the public, free of charge, on or
through the Investor Relations section of our internet website, copies of our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports 
as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
materials with the SEC. Our filings are available to the public from commercial
document retrieval services, our website and at the SEC s website at
www.sec.gov. Our website address is www.cantelmedical.com. Also available on
our website are our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Charters of the Nominating
and Governance Committee, Compensation and Stock Option Committee, and Audit
Committee, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Information contained on
our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report.  

   Item 1A.                  RISK
FACTORS .     

   We are subject to various risks and uncertainties
relating to or arising out of the nature of our businesses and general
business, economic, financing, legal and other factors or conditions that may
affect us. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks and
uncertainties relevant to our businesses, which we believe are factors that,
individually or in the aggregate, could have a material and adverse impact on
our business, results of operations and financial condition, or could cause our
actual results to differ materially from expected or historical results. We
note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or
identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following
to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.   

    Our
market for dialysis reprocessing products is limited to dialysis centers that
reuse dialyzers, which market has been decreasing in the United States.    

  Our dialyzer reprocessing
products are limited to use by centers that choose to clean, sterilize and
reuse dialyzers, rather then discard the dialyzers after a single use. Dialysis
centers in the United States that reuse dialyzers derive an economic benefit
since the per-procedure cost is less when utilizing dialyzer reuse compared
with single use and such dialysis clinics generally receive a capitated payment
for providing hemodialysis treatment. Although current public information is
not available to accurately quantify the number of dialysis centers currently
employing dialyzer reuse versus single use, it is apparent that the market
share of single use dialyzers has been increasing during the past five years
relative to reuse dialyzers. We believe that approximately 40% of all dialysis
centers in the United States currently reuse dialyzers. This compares to
approximately 76% reuse reported by the Centers for Disease Control in 2001.  

  The shift from reuse to
single use dialyzers is due in large part to the commitment of Fresenius, the
largest dialysis chain in the United States and a manufacturer of single-use
dialyzers, to convert all of its reuse dialysis clinics (including newly
acquired clinics) to single use facilities. On March 31, 2006, Fresenius
acquired RCG, a significant customer of our dialysis reuse products. As
Fresenius   

20     

converts all or
substantially all of the dialysis clinics of RCG into single-use facilities,
our customer base for dialysis products will continue to decrease. This
downward trend has resulted in, and will continue to result in, a decrease in
revenues and net income in our dialysis segment. The continued decrease in
dialyzer reuse in the United States in favor of single use dialyzers could have
a material adverse effect on our business. See  Principal Customers,    Competition 
and   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations Results of Operations.   

    The
consolidation of dialysis providers has resulted in greater buying power by
certain of our customers, which has caused us to reduce the average selling
prices of our dialysis products, thereby reducing net sales and profit margins.
Such consolidation has also resulted in the loss of dialysate concentrate
sales.    

  There has been an
increasing consolidation in the dialysis industry, marked by the acquisition by
certain major dialysis chains of smaller chains and independents. Such
consolidation of dialysis providers has resulted in greater buying power by
certain of our customers, which has caused us to reduce the average selling
prices of our dialysis products, thereby reducing net sales and profit margins.
The acquisition by DaVita, the second largest dialysis chain in the United
States, of Gambro US in October 2005 has had the most significant adverse
effect in this regard. In addition, the DaVita and Fresenius acquisitions have
resulted in the loss of low margin dialysate concentrate business since Gambro
and Fresenius manufacture dialysate concentrate themselves. Consequently, the
DaVita and RCG dialysis centers have reduced their purchases of dialysate
concentrate from us.  

    We recently
commenced sales and service of our Medivators endoscope reprocessing systems in
the United States on a direct basis. There can be no assurance that our direct
sales and service program will be successful.    

  On August 2, 2006, we
commenced the sale and service of our Medivators brand endoscope reprocessing
products and related accessories and supplies in the United States on a direct
basis. Prior to that time, such products were distributed in that territory
through Olympus under an exclusive distribution agreement. We decided not to renew
the agreement with Olympus based on our belief that it would be in our best
long term interests to establish our own direct hospital-based distribution
system in the United States. Our decision to sell direct has necessitated the
establishment of new field sales and marketing teams and the expenditure of
significant start-up amounts. There can be no assurance that our direct sales
program will be successful.  

    Because
a significant portion of our Dental segment net sales comes from a few large
customers, any significant decrease in sales to these customers could harm our
operating results.    

  The distribution network in the United States dental
industry is concentrated, with relatively few distributors of consumables
accounting for a significant share of the sales volume to dentists.
Accordingly, net sales and profitability of our Dental segment are highly
dependent on its relationships with a limited number of large distributors.
During fiscal 2006, the top four customers of our Dental segment accounted for approximately
48% of its net sales, with three of such customers each accounting for 10% or
more of such segment s net sales. We are likely to continue to experience a
high degree of customer concentration in this segment. We cannot assure you
that there will not be a loss or reduction in business from one or more of our
major customers. In addition, we cannot assure you that net sales from
customers that have accounted for significant net sales in the past, either
individually or as a group, will reach or exceed historical levels in any
future period. Although we do not anticipate that any of customers of the
Dental segment will account for more than 10% of our Company-wide net sales on
a consolidated basis, the loss or a significant reduction of business from any
of the major customers of the Dental segment could adversely affect  

21  

our results of operations. In addition, because our
Dental segment products are sold through third-party distributors, and not
directly to end users, we may not be able to control the amount and timing of
resources that our distributors devote to our products.  

    Government
regulation may delay or prevent new product introduction.    

  Many of our products are
subject to regulation by governmental and private agencies in the United States
and abroad, which regulate the testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution
and marketing of medical supplies and devices. Certain international regulatory
bodies also impose import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties, and tax
requirements. Delays in agency review can significantly delay new product
introduction and may result in a product becoming  dated  or losing its market
opportunity before it can be introduced. The FDA and other agency clearances
generally are required before we can market new products in the United States
or make significant changes to existing products. The FDA also has the
authority to require a recall or modification of products in the event of a
defect. The process of obtaining marketing clearances and approvals from
regulatory agencies for new products can be time consuming and expensive. There
is no assurance that clearances or approvals will be granted or that agency
review will not involve delays that would adversely affect our ability to
commercialize our products.  

  Federal, state and
foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products are
subject to change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might
have on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that regulation of
our products will not become more restrictive in the future and that any such
development would not have a material adverse effect on our business. For a
more detailed discussion on government regulation and related risks, see   Government
Regulation.   

    Customer
acceptance of our products is dependent on our ability to meet changing
requirements.    

  Customer acceptance of
our products is significantly dependent on our ability to offer products that
meet the changing requirements of our customers, including hospitals,
industrial laboratories, doctors, dentists, clinics, government agencies and
industrial corporations. Any decrease in the level of customer acceptance of
our products could have a material adverse effect on our business.  

    We distribute
our products in highly competitive markets.    

  We distribute
substantially all of our products in highly competitive markets that contain
many products available from nationally and internationally recognized
competitors. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial,
technical and human resources than us and are well-established. In addition,
some companies have developed or may be expected to develop technologies or
products that could compete with the products we manufacture and distribute or
that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, our
competitors may achieve patent protection, regulatory approval, or product
commercialization that would limit our ability to compete with them. Although
we believe that we compete effectively with all of our present competitors in
our principal product groups, there can be no assurance that we will continue
to do so. These and other competitive pressures could have a material adverse
effect on our business.  

    Currency
fluctuations and trade barriers could adversely affect our results of
operations.    

  A portion of our dialysis,
dental, endoscope reprocessing, and water purification and filtration products
are exported and imported to and from the Far East, Western Europe and Canada,
and our business could be materially and adversely affected by the imposition
of trade barriers, fluctuations in the rates of exchange of various currencies,
tariff increases and import and export restrictions,   

22     

affecting the United
States and Canada.  

  Our Canadian subsidiaries
purchase a portion of their inventories in United States dollars and sell a
significant amount of their products in United States dollars and therefore are
exposed to foreign exchange gains and losses upon payment of such payables and
the collection of such receivables. Similarly, such United States denominated
assets and liabilities must be converted into their functional Canadian
currency when preparing their financial statements, which results in foreign
exchange gains and losses. Additionally, the results of operations of our
Canadian subsidiaries are translated from their functional Canadian currency to
United States dollars for purposes of preparing our consolidated financial
statements. Therefore, our continuing operations could be materially and
adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar against
the United States dollar or by the imposition of trade barriers, tariff
increases or import and export restrictions between the United States and
Canada. Moreover, a decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar could result
in a corresponding reduction in the United States dollar value of our assets
that are denominated in Canadian dollars.  

    Our
growth may be dependent on acquiring new businesses    

  We intend to grow, in
part, by acquiring businesses. The success of this strategy depends upon several
factors, including:  

                        our ability to
identify and acquire businesses; 

                        our ability to
integrate acquired operations, personnel, products and technologies into our
organization effectively; 

                        our ability to
retain and motivate key personnel and to retain the customers of acquired
companies; and 

                        financing for
our acquisitions may not be available on terms we find acceptable. 

  In addition, we have used
our stock as partial consideration for acquisitions. Our common stock may not
remain at a price at which it can be used as consideration for acquisitions
without diluting our existing stockholders, and potential acquisition
candidates may not view our stock attractively. We also may not be able to
sustain the rates of growth that we have experienced in the past, whether by
acquiring businesses or otherwise.  

    Certain
of our businesses are heavily reliant on certain raw materials.    

  Although there is a
diversity of products produced by our dental segment, many of them are made
from paper pulp and resin. In addition, many of our products utilize plastic or
stainless steel. We are therefore exposed to rising raw material prices with no
guarantees that such increases in costs can be passed along to our customers.  

  As a result of damage
caused by recent Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita to many resin suppliers
there was a shortage of material in the market for several months during fiscal
2006. However, since we had sufficient resin inventory to meet our requirements
we were not adversely affected by the market shortage. Although no market
shortage currently exists, there can be no assurance that there will not be
resin shortages in the future.  

23     

Because we
operate in international markets, we are subject to political and economic
risks that we do not face in the United States.    

  We operate in a global
market. Global operations are subject to risks, including political and
economic instability, general economic conditions, imposition of government
controls, the need to comply with a wide variety of foreign and United States
export laws, trade restrictions, and the greater difficulty of administering
business overseas.  

    The markets for
many of our products are subject to changing technology.    

  The markets for many
products we sell, particularly endoscope reprocessing equipment, are subject to
changing technology, new product introductions and product enhancements, and
evolving industry standards. The introduction or enhancement of products
embodying new technology or the emergence of new industry standards could
render existing products obsolete or result in short product life cycles.
Accordingly, our ability to compete is in part dependent on our ability to
continually offer enhanced and improved products.  

    We may be
exposed to product liability claims resulting from the use of products we sell
and distribute.    

  We may be exposed to
product liability claims resulting from the products we sell and distribute. We
maintain general liability insurance that includes product liability coverage,
which we believe is adequate for our businesses. However, there can be no
assurance that insurance coverage for these risks will continue to be available
or, if available, that it will be sufficient to cover potential claims or that
the present level of coverage will continue to be available at a reasonable
cost. A partially or completely uninsured successful claim against us could
have a material adverse effect on us.  

    We
use chemicals and other regulated substances in the manufacturing of our
products.    

  In the ordinary course of
certain of our manufacturing processes, we use various chemicals and other
regulated substances. Although we are not aware of any material claims
involving violation of environmental or occupational health and safety laws or
regulations, there can be no assurance that such a claim may not arise in the
future, which could have a material adverse effect on us.  

    We
rely on intellectual property and proprietary rights to maintain our
competitive position.    

  We rely heavily on
proprietary technology that we protect primarily through licensing
arrangements, patents, trade secrets, and proprietary know-how. There can be no
assurance that any pending or future patent applications will be granted or
that any current or future patents, regardless of whether we are an owner or a
licensee of the patent, will not be challenged, rendered unenforceable,
invalidated, or circumvented or that the rights will provide a competitive
advantage to us. There can also be no assurance that our trade secrets or
non-disclosure agreements will provide meaningful protection of our proprietary
information. There can also be no assurance that others will not independently
develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us or
that our technology will not infringe upon patents or other rights owned by
others.  

    If we are unable
to retain key personnel, our business could be adversely affected.    

  Our success is dependent
to a significant degree upon the efforts of key members of our management.
Although several key personnel are parties to employment agreements, such
agreements cannot assure the continued services of such personnel, and the loss
or unavailability of any of them could have a material adverse effect on our
business. In particular, Mr. James P. Reilly, our President and Chief Executive
Officer, has advised our Board that he will retire upon the expiration of his
employment agreement on July 31, 2007. The Board has commenced a search for a   

24     

successor to Mr. Reilly
but there can be no assurance that we will attract and hire a qualified
candidate in a timely manner. In addition, our success depends in large part on
our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical,
sales, marketing and other personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense
and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the
personnel necessary for the development and operation of our businesses.  

    Our
stock price has been volatile and may experience continued significant price
and volume fluctuations in the future that could reduce the value of
outstanding shares.    

  The market for our
common stock has, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume
fluctuations that may have been unrelated to our operating performance. Factors
such as announcements of variations in our quarterly financial results and new
business developments could also cause the market price of our common stock to
fluctuate significantly.  

    Future issuances of our common
stock may affect the market price of our common stock.    

  The issuance of
additional shares of our common stock may materially and adversely affect the
per share market price of our common stock. In addition, if we issue additional
shares of our common stock, existing holders of our common stock may experience
dilution, and that dilution may be substantial. Issuances or sales of
substantial numbers of additional shares of common stock, including in
connection with future acquisitions, if any, or the perception that such
issuances or sales could occur, may cause prevailing market prices for our
common stock to decline.  

   Item 1B.                  UNRESOLVED
STAFF COMMENTS.    

  None  

   Item 2.                     PROPERTIES .   

    Owned
Facilities    

  We own three buildings located on adjacent sites,
comprising a total of 16.5 acres of land in Plymouth, a suburb of Minneapolis,
Minnesota. The principal facility is a 110,000 square-foot building, used for
executive, administrative and sales staff, research operations, manufacturing
and warehousing. The second facility is a 65,000 square-foot building used for
manufacturing and warehousing. The third facility is a 43,000 square-foot
building used primarily for manufacturing and warehouse operations. These
facilities are used for our Dialysis, Endoscope Reprocessing, and Therapeutic
operating segments as well as a portion of our Water Purification and
Filtration operating segment.  

  We own a 21,000 square-foot building in Heerlen, the
Netherlands that serves as our European headquarters and is used as a sales
office, manufacturing facility and warehouse. These facilities are used for our
Dialysis, Endoscope Reprocessing, and Therapeutic operating segments as well as
a portion of our Water Purification and Filtration operating segment.  

  We own a 63,000 square foot building in Hauppauge, New
York, the headquarters for our Crosstex subsidiary, which is used for
executive, administrative and sales staff, manufacturing and warehousing for
the Dental segment.  

25     

Leased Facilities    

  Our principal leased facilities include the following:  

Location   

Purpose   

Square Footage   

Principal Operating 
  Segment   

Middletown, PA  

Warehouse and distribution hub  

31,000  

Dialysis  

Plymouth, MN  

Warehousing  

22,000  

Various  

Hauppauge, NY  

Warehousing  

40,000  

Dental  

Sharon, PA*  

Manufacturing and warehousing  

35,000  

Dental  

Santa Fe Springs, CA  

Manufacturing and warehousing  

35,000  

Dental  

Lawrenceville, GA  

Manufacturing and warehousing  

40,000  

Dental  

Burlington, Ontario  

Sales and administrative offices, research and
  engineering, manufacturing, and warehousing  

21,600  

Water Purification and Filtration  

Oakville, Ontario  

Warehousing and regeneration plant  

9,100  

Water Purification and Filtration  

Montreal, Quebec  

Regeneration plant  

4,100  

Water Purification and Filtration  

Skippack, PA  

Sales and administrative offices, manufacturing,
  warehousing and regeneration plant  

22,500  

Water Purification and Filtration  

Lowell, MA  

Sales and administrative offices, manufacturing,
  warehousing and regeneration plant.  

26,000  

Water Purification and Filtration  

Edmonton, Alberta  

Executive, sales and administrative offices,
  manufacturing and warehousing  

11,700  

Specialty Packaging (Included in All Other reporting
  segment)  

Little Falls, NJ  

Corporate executive offices  

8,900  

Cantel Medical Corp.  

*The facility in
Sharon is owned by an entity controlled by three of the former owners of
Crosstex (two of whom currently serve as officers of Crosstex).  

  In addition, we lease office and sales space in Tokyo,
Japan; Singapore; Dronfield, England; and Beijing, China that is used for all
of our operating segments other than Dental and Specialty Packaging. We lease
office, sales and warehouse space in Lienden, the Netherlands, and Osaka, Japan
for our Dental segment.  

  We lease additional space  for our Water Purification and Filtration
segment in Downers Grove, Illinois; Norcross, Georgia; Manassas Park,
Virginia; Florida, New York; Orion Township, Michigan; Parma, Ohio; Raleigh,
North Carolina; Homewood, Alabama; Ethridge, Tennessee; and Lakeland, Florida.
Both the Illinois and Georgia facilities serve as warehouses and regeneration
plants, while the other locations are small storage facilities supporting local
service operations. 

  Net rentals for leased space for fiscal 2006
aggregated approximately $2,245,000 (including net rentals attributable to
Crosstex of approximately $768,000) compared with $1,378,000 in fiscal 2005.
The fiscal 2006 and 2005 amounts exclude the facilities leased by our
discontinued operations.  

26     

Item 3.                     LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS .   

  In the normal course of business, we are subject to
pending and threatened legal actions. It is our policy to accrue for amounts
related to these legal matters if it is probable that a liability has been
incurred and an amount of anticipated exposure can be reasonably estimated.  

  On January 27, 2006, the United States District Court,
District of Minnesota, granted Minntech s Motion for Summary Judgment in the
previously reported antitrust lawsuit commenced by HDC Medical, Inc. in
November 2003. As a result of the ruling, the complaint against Minntech, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Cantel, has been dismissed. In March 2006, HDC filed
a Notice of Appeal with respect to the court s ruling for Summary Judgment and
in April 2006, HDC filed its Brief and Addendum in support of its
appeal. Minntech filed its Brief in response to the appeal on May 24, 2006
and HDC submitted a Reply Brief on June 7, 2006. Oral argument before the
Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals in St. Louis is scheduled for October 19,
2006. We do not expect the Court to render a decision on HDC s
appeal prior to December 2006.  

  In July 2006, we received a letter from the  Sellers 
of Biolab Equipment Ltd. claiming that the Contingent Payment under the Biolab
Stock Purchase Agreement is payable to the Sellers but providing virtually no
support for their position. We responded by stating that the claim has absolutely
no merit but that a formal analysis with respect to fiscal 2006 could not be
provided until the completion of our year-end financial statements. In October
2006, the Sellers sent a letter to us claiming that the Contingent Payment, as
well as related incentive compensation payments to two of the Sellers under
their employment agreements, has been fully earned. Although the Sellers
provided an analysis purportedly supporting their position, we believe that the
analysis is erroneous and the claim has no merit whatsoever.  We advised the Sellers of our position and
within the next few weeks will deliver to the Sellers the formal calculations
required under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement. Although we hope that
this matter will be dropped following the Sellers  receipt of such
calculations, there can be no assurance in that regard. If we cannot amicably
resolve this matter, the Sellers can commence an arbitration proceeding under
the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement. The maximum Contingent Payment and
incentive compensation that could be earned under the Stock Purchase Agreement
and related employment agreements of two of the Sellers (one of whom remains an
employee of the Company) are approximately $3,000,000 and $600,000,
respectively.  

   Item 4.                     SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS .   

  There was no submission of
matters to a vote during the three months ended July 31, 2006.  

27     

PART II   

   Item
5.                                                                 MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES .  

  Our Common Stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol  CMN.   

  The following table sets forth, for the periods
indicated, the high and low closing prices for the Common Stock as reported by
the New York Stock Exchange.                   

In January 2005, we issued
5,095,000 additional shares in connection with a three-for-two stock split.
This 50% stock dividend was paid on January 12, 2005 to stockholders of record
on January 5, 2005. The effect of the stock split has been recognized
retroactively throughout this report.  

  We have not paid any cash dividends on the Common
Stock and a change in this policy is not presently under consideration by the
Board of Directors. We are not permitted to pay cash dividends on our Common
Stock without the consent of our United States lenders.  

  On September 18, 2006, the closing price of our Common
Stock was $13.99 and we had 383 record holders of Common Stock. A number of
such holders of record are brokers and other institutions holding shares of
Common Stock in  street name  for more than one beneficial owner.  

  In April 2006, our Board of Directors approved the
repurchase of up to 500,000 shares of our outstanding Common Stock. Under the
repurchase program we repurchase shares from time-to-time at prevailing prices
and as permitted by applicable securities laws (including SEC Rule 10b-18) and
New York Stock Exchange requirements, and subject to market conditions. The
repurchase program has a one-year term ending April 12, 2007.  

  The first purchase under our repurchase program
occurred on April 19, 2006. Through July 31, 2006, we had completed the
repurchase of 303,000 shares under the repurchase program.  

28     

The following table summarizes the repurchase of
Common Stock under the repurchase program during fiscal 2006:  

Through September 18, 2006, we had completed the
purchase of 349,600 shares under the repurchase program at a total average
price per share of $14.14. Therefore, at September 18, 2006, the maximum number
of shares that may be purchased under the program are 150,400 shares.  

29     

Item 6.                     SELECTED
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA .   

  The financial data in the following table is qualified
in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the financial
statements and notes thereto and other information incorporated by reference in
this Form 10-K. Minntech is reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income
Data for fiscal 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and the portion of fiscal 2002
subsequent to its acquisition on September 7, 2001. Biolab and Mar Cor are
reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income Data for fiscal 2006, 2005 and
2004. Dyped and Saf-T-Pak are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of
Income Data for fiscal 2006, 2005 and the portion of fiscal 2004 subsequent to
their acquisitions on September 12, 2003 and June 1, 2004, respectively.
Crosstex is reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income Data for fiscal
2006. Biolab, Mar Cor, Dyped, Saf-T-Pak and Crosstex are not reflected in the
results of operations for all other periods presented. Carsen is reflected as a
discontinued operation for all years presented.  

   Consolidated Statements of Income
Data 
  (Amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

30     

Consolidated Balance Sheets Data   

  (Amounts in
thousands, except per share data)  

(1)             Per
share and share amounts have been adjusted to reflect three-for-two stock
splits effected in the form of 50% stock dividends paid in each of January 2005
and May 2002. 

31  

Item
7.                                                        MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   .  

  The following
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations ( MD A ) is intended to help you understand Cantel Medical Corp.
( Cantel ). The MD A is provided as a supplement to and should be read in
conjunction with our financial statements and the accompanying notes. Our
MD A includes the following sections:  

   Overview  
provides a brief description of our business and a summary of significant
activity that has affected or may affect our results of operations and
financial condition. 

   Results of Operations  
provides a discussion of the consolidated results of continuing operations for
fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005, and fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal
2004. 

   Liquidity and Capital Resources  
provides an overview of our working capital, cashflows, contractual
obligations, financing, significant distribution agreements and foreign
currency hedging activities. 

   Critical Accounting Policies  
provides a discussion of our accounting policies that require critical
judgments, assumptions and estimates. 

   Overview   

  Cantel is a leading
provider of infection prevention and control products in the healthcare market,
specializing in the following operating segments:  

                        Dialysis:
Medical device reprocessing systems, sterilants/disinfectants, dialysate
concentrates and other supplies for renal dialysis. 

                        Dental:
Single-use, infection control products used principally in the
dental market including face masks, towels and bibs, tray covers, saliva
ejectors, germicidal wipes, plastic cups, sterilization pouches and
disinfectants. 

                        Endoscope
Reprocessing: Medical device reprocessing systems and sterilants/disinfectants
for endoscopy. 

                        Water
Purification and Filtration: Water purification equipment and services,
filtration and separation products, and disinfectants for the medical,
pharmaceutical, biotech and other industrial markets. 

                        Therapeutic
Filtration: Hollow fiber membrane filtration and separation technologies for
medical applications. (Included in All Other reporting segment) 

                        Specialty
Packaging: Specialty packaging and thermal control products, as well as related
compliance training, for the transport of infectious and biological specimens and
thermally sensitive pharmaceutical, medical and other products. (Included in
All Other reporting segment) 

  Most of our
equipment, consumables and supplies are used to help prevent the occurrence or
spread of infections.  

   On July 31 , 2006, our wholly-owned subsidiary Carsen Group Inc.
( Carsen ) closed the sale of substantially all of its assets to Olympus
America Inc. and certain of its affiliates (collectively,  Olympus ) under an
Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of May 16, 2006 among Carsen, Cantel   

32     

and Olympus. Olympus
purchased substantially all of Carsen s assets other than those related to
Carsen s Medivators business and certain other smaller product lines. Following
the closing, Olympus hired substantially all of Carsen s employees and took
over Carsen s Olympus-related operations (as well as the operations related to
the other acquired product lines). The transaction resulted in an after-tax
gain of approximately $6,776,000 and was recorded separately on the
Consolidated Statements of Income as gain on disposal of discontinued
operations, net of tax. In connection with the transaction, Carsen s
Medivators-related assets as well as certain of its other assets that were not
acquired by Olympus were sold to our new Canadian distributor of Medivators products.  

  As a result of the foregoing transaction, which
coincided with the expiration of Carsen s exclusive distribution agreements
with Olympus on July 31, 2006, Carsen no longer has any remaining product lines
or active business operations.  

  The businesses of Carsen, previously reported in the
Endoscopy and Surgical, Endoscope Reprocessing and All Other reporting
segments, are reflected as a discontinued operation in our Consolidated
Financial Statements and have been excluded from segment results for all
periods presented. Net sales, cost of sales, operating expenses, interest
expense and income taxes attributable to Carsen s operations have been
aggregated into a single line, income from discontinued operations, net of tax,
on the Consolidated Statements of Income. Additionally, the assets and
liabilities related to the discontinued operations have been segregated from
continuing operations in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Prior to being
reported as discontinued operations, fiscal 2006 net sales and operating income
of Carsen accounted for approximately 25.3% and 53.3% of our fiscal 2006
consolidated net sales and operating income, respectively.  

  Further information regarding our discontinued
operations is included in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and
elsewhere in this MD A.  

    Significant Activity    

  (i)                                                           The
Olympus distribution agreements with Carsen, as well as Carsen s active
business operations, terminated on July 31, 2006, as more fully described
elsewhere in this MD A,  Business   Termination of Carsen s Distribution
Agreement,   Business   Risk Factors  and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. 

  (ii)                                                        As
a result of our decision to not renew Olympus  exclusive United States
distribution agreement when it expired on August 1, 2006, we commenced the sale
and service of our Medivators brand endoscope reprocessing equipment,
high-level disinfectants, cleaners and consumables through our own United
States field sales and service organization on August 2, 2006, as more fully described
elsewhere in this MD A,  Business   Reporting Segments  Endoscope
Reprocessing.  and  Business   Risk Factors.  

  (iii)                                                     The
dialysis industry has been undergoing significant consolidation which has
adversely impacted the average selling price of some of our dialysis products
and may continue to adversely affect our business, as more fully described
elsewhere in this MD A, in  Business   Competition  and in  Business - Risk

33     

Factors.   

  (iv)                                                    On
August 1, 2005, which is the beginning of our fiscal 2006, we acquired Crosstex
International Inc. ( Crosstex ), as more fully described in  Business  
Reporting Segments   Dental  and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. 

  (v)                                                       In
conjunction with the Crosstex acquisition, we amended and restated our United
States credit facilities on August 1, 2005, as more fully described elsewhere
in this MD A and in Notes 3 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

  (vi)                                                    A
stronger Canadian dollar against the United States dollar impacted our results
of operations during fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005, as more fully
described elsewhere in this MD A. The increase in value was approximately
7.7% for fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005, based upon average exchange
rates reported by banking institutions. 

  (vii)                                                 A
weaker euro against the United States dollar impacted our results of operations
during fiscal 2006, compared with fiscal 2005, as more fully described
elsewhere in this MD A. The decrease in value was approximately 3.8% for
fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005, based upon average exchange rates
reported by banking institutions. 

  (viii)                                              On
May 1, 2006, we acquired certain of the assets and assumed certain of the
liabilities of Fluid Solutions, Inc. as more fully described in  Business  
Recent Developments  and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

   Results of Operations   

  The results of operations reflect the continuing operating results of
Cantel and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, but exclude the operating results of
Carsen.  

  Since the Crosstex
acquisition occurred on August 1, 2005, Crosstex is reflected in our results of
operations for fiscal 2006, and is not reflected in our results of operations
for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004. Certain distribution and warehouse expenses of
Crosstex have been reclassified from amounts previously reported in our
quarterly Form 10-Q s to conform with the accounting policies of Cantel which
require such costs to be classified as cost of sales. These reclassifications
affect cost of sales, gross profit and selling expenses of our Dental segment,
and therefore our consolidated amounts.  

  For fiscal 2006
compared with fiscal 2005, discussion herein of our pre-existing business
refers to all of our reporting segments with the exception of Dental (since
this entire reporting segment is related to the Crosstex acquisition) as well
as the discontinued operations of Carsen.  

  Since the
Saf-T-Pak acquisition occurred on June 1, 2004, Saf-T-Pak is reflected in our
results of operations for fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and for the last two months
of fiscal 2004. The acquisition of Saf-T-Pak added the Specialty Packaging
operating segment, which is included in the   

34     

All Other reporting
segment.  

  For fiscal 2005
compared with fiscal 2004, discussion herein of our pre-existing business refers
to the Dialysis, Endoscope Reprocessing, and Water Purification and Filtration
reporting segments and the Therapeutic Filtration operating segment, which is
included in the All Other reporting segment, but excludes the impact of the
Saf-T-Pak acquisition as well as the discontinued operations of Carsen.  

  The following
table gives information as to the net sales from continuing operations and the
percentage to the total net sales from continuing operations for each of our
reporting segments.  

Fiscal 2006 compared with Fiscal 2005    

    Net sales    

   Net sales increased by $55,022,000, or 40.1%, to $192,179,000 in fiscal
2006 from $137,157,000 in fiscal 2005.  Net sales of our pre-existing
business increased by $729,000, or 0.5%, to $137,886,000 for fiscal 2006
compared with fiscal 2005. Net sales contributed by our Dental segment in
fiscal 2006 were $54,293,000.  

  Net sales were
positively impacted in fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005 by approximately
$485,000 due to the translation of Canadian dollar net sales primarily of our
Water Purification and Filtration operating segment using a stronger Canadian
dollar against the United States dollar.  

  In addition, net
sales were negatively impacted in fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005 by
approximately $481,000 due to the translation of Euro net sales primarily of
our Dialysis operating segment using a weaker euro against the United States
dollar.  

  Increases in
selling prices of our products did not have a significant effect on net sales
in fiscal 2006. However, as discussed below, we experienced a reduction in our
dialysis net sales and profit margins in fiscal 2006 due to reduced average
selling prices attributable to the Davita/Gambro US acquisition.  

  The increase in net sales of our pre-existing business
in fiscal 2006 was principally attributable to increases in sales of water
purification and filtration products and services and endoscope reprocessing
products and services. These increases in net sales were partially offset by
decreases in   

35     

sales of dialysis products and therapeutic products.  

  The increase in
sales of water purification and filtration products and services of $7,233,000,
or 24.8%, in fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005 was primarily due to
increased demand in North America for our water purification and filtration
equipment, and was partially attributable to the restructuring, strengthening,
and consolidation of our sales and marketing organization. Additionally, we
acquired certain of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of Fluid
Solutions, Inc. on May 1, 2006 which resulted in approximately $1,500,000 of
incremental net sales in fiscal 2006.  

  The increase in
sales of endoscope reprocessing products and services of 6.0% in fiscal 2006
compared with fiscal 2005 was primarily due to an increase in demand for our
endoscope disinfection equipment, disinfectants and product service both in the
United States and internationally. The increase in demand for our disinfectants
and product service is attributable to the increased field population of
equipment (including our Dyped endoscope disinfection equipment in Europe) and
our ability to convert users of competitive disinfectants to our products.  

  Sales
of dialysis products and services decreased by 10.0% in fiscal 2006 compared
with fiscal 2005 primarily due to a decrease in demand from domestic and
international customers for dialysate concentrate (a concentrated acid or
bicarbonate used to prepare dialysate, a chemical solution that draws waste
products from a patient s blood through a dialyzer membrane during hemodialysis
treatment) and Renatron dialyzer reprocessing equipment both in the United
States and internationally, and lower average selling prices for Renatron
equipment and Renalin sterilant due to increased sales to large national chains
that typically receive more favorable pricing. Partially offsetting the
decrease in sales of dialysis products and services was an increase of
approximately $1,512,000 in net sales as a result of shipping and handling
fees, such as freight, invoiced to customers during fiscal 2006 (related costs
of a similar amount are included within cost of sales). During fiscal 2005, two
of our largest customers were responsible for transportation related to the
products they purchased from us; in fiscal 2006, these two customers requested
that we undertake and invoice them for such transportation.  

  The
dialysis industry has been undergoing significant consolidation through the
acquisition by certain major dialysis chains of smaller chains and
independents. In October 2005, DaVita Inc. ( DaVita ), the second-largest
dialysis chain in the United States, acquired Gambro AB s United States
dialysis clinic business, Gambro Healthcare, Inc. ( Gambro US ). DaVita and
Gambro US are significant customers of our dialysis reuse products and
accounted for approximately 25% of our dialysis net sales during fiscal 2006.
The DaVita/Gambro US acquisition has resulted in greater buying power for the
larger resulting entity and thereby a reduction in our net sales and profit
margins due to reduced average selling prices of our dialyzer reprocessing
products.  

  In addition, on
March 31, 2006, Fresenius Medical Care ( Fresenius ), the largest dialysis
chain in the United States and a provider of single-use dialyzer products,
announced the closing of its acquisition of Renal Care Group, Inc. ( RCG ). RCG
has been a significant customer of our dialysis reuse products. Combined net
sales of Fresenius and RCG accounted for approximately 18.6% of our dialysis
net sales during fiscal 2006. We anticipate Fresenius will convert all or
substantially all of the dialysis clinics of RCG into single-use facilities,
which will adversely affect our sales of dialysis products. Given the
uncertainty of the post-acquisition operating strategies for Fresenius/RCG, we
are currently unable to determine the timing and impact on our future sales of   

36     

dialysis products and
services. In addition, the DaVita and Fresenius acquisitions have resulted in
the loss of low margin dialysate concentrate business since Gambro and
Fresenius manufacture dialysate concentrate themselves. Consequently, the
DaVita and RCG dialysis centers have reduced their purchases of dialysate
concentrate from us.  

  Net sales contributed by the Therapeutic Filtration operating segment
were $7,012,000, a decrease of $1,804,000, or 20.5% in fiscal 2006 compared
with fiscal 2005. This decrease in sales was primarily due to reduced sales in
the United States of pediatric filters, manufactured by us on an OEM basis for
a single customer s hydration system, due to a voluntary recall of the system
(unrelated to our product) by such customer. We anticipate that sales to the
manufacturer will recommence in the near future. The reduction was also due to
decreases in demand for our hemoconcentrator products (a device used to
concentrate red blood cells and remove excess fluid from the bloodstream during
open-heart surgery) and hemofilter products (a product that performs a slow,
continuous blood filtration therapy used to control fluid overload and acute
renal failure in unstable, critically ill patients who cannot tolerate the
rapid filtration rates of conventional hemodialysis), both in the United States
and internationally.  

    Gross
profit    

   Gross profit increased by $15,335,000, or 28.5%, to $69,216,000 in
fiscal 2006 from $53,881,000 in fiscal 2005.  Gross profit of our
pre-existing business decreased by $2,857,000, or 5.3%, to $51,024,000 in
fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005. Gross profit contributed by our Dental
segment in fiscal 2006 was $18,192,000.  

  Gross profit as a
percentage of net sales was 36.0% in fiscal 2006 compared with 39.3% in fiscal
2005.  Gross profit as a percentage of net
sales of our pre-existing business in fiscal 2006 was 37.0%. Gross profit as a
percentage of net sales for our Dental segment in fiscal 2006 was 33.5%, which 
was adversely impacted by a $658,000 one-time purchase accounting charge
related to our Dental segment s inventory during the three months ended October
31, 2005. Excluding this one-time charge, 
gross profit as a percentage of net sales for our Dental segment in fiscal 2006
was 34.7%.   

  The lower gross
profit percentage from our pre-existing business in fiscal 2006 as compared
with fiscal 2005 was primarily attributable to a lower gross profit percentage
on our dialysis products due to lower average selling prices on dialysate
concentrate, Renatron equipment and sterilants principally as a result of
increased sales to large national chains that typically receive more favorable
pricing, unfavorable overhead absorption associated with the decrease in sales
to domestic and international customers, and higher distribution costs.
Additionally, gross profit percentage for fiscal 2006 was adversely impacted by
the sale of some large water purification and filtration systems at lower than
normal margins.  

  With respect to
the reduction in gross profit (as opposed to gross profit percentage), the loss
in gross profit attributable to decreases in net sales as explained above, as
well as the aforementioned reasons for the reduction in gross profit
percentage, constitute the most significant factors in the decrease in gross
profit.  

    Operating expenses    

  Selling expenses increased by $3,264,000, or 21.4%, to $18,530,000 in
fiscal 2006 from   

37     

$15,266,000
in fiscal 2005 principally due to the inclusion of $2,496,000 of our Dental segment s
selling expenses; the initial cost of $806,000 to develop our endoscope
reprocessing direct sales and service network  as a result of our
decision to not renew Olympus  exclusive United States distribution agreement
when it expired on August 1, 2006, as more fully described elsewhere is this
MD  an increase in salary expense of
approximately $230,000 in our Specialty Packaging operating segment primarily
for the increase in our sales and marketing personnel; the recording of
$141,000 of stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2006; and the
translation of Canadian expenses in our Water Purification and Filtration and
Specialty Packaging segments using a stronger Canadian dollar against the
United States dollar which resulted in an additional $107,000 of selling
expenses. Partially offsetting the increase in selling expenses were decreases
in sales and marketing personnel and commissions in our dialysis reporting
segment in response to the consolidation of the dialysis industry since an
increasing percentage of sales of our dialysis products are to major dialysis
chains as compared to small chains and independent dialysis clinics.   

  Selling expenses
as a percentage of net sales were 9.6% in fiscal 2006 compared with 11.1% in
fiscal 2005. The decrease in selling expenses as a percentage of net sales was
primarily attributable to the inclusion of the lower selling cost structure of
our Dental segment (which such selling expenses as a percentage of our Dental
segment net sales were 4.6% in fiscal 2006) and  decreases in sales and marketing personnel and commissions in our
Dialysis reporting segment in response to the consolidation of the dialysis
industry , partially offset by  the
initial cost of $806,000 to develop our endoscope reprocessing direct field sales
and service organization.   

   General and administrative expenses increased by $10,031,000, or 49.7%,
to $30,225,000 in fiscal 2006 from $20,194,000 in fiscal 2005 p rincipally
due to the  inclusion of $7,779,000 of our
Dental segment s general and administrative expenses (which such expenses
include $2,960,000 of amortization associated with intangible assets); the
recording of $845,000 of stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2006;
$345,000 in incentive compensation during the three months ended October 31,
2005 directly related to the Crosstex acquisition; the translation of Canadian
expenses in our Water Purification and Filtration and Specialty Packaging
segments using a stronger Canadian dollar against the United States dollar
which resulted in an additional $191,000 of general and administrative
expenses; $160,000 in debt financing costs during the three months ended
October 31, 2005 related to our amended and restated credit facilities; and the
inclusion of $135,000 of Fluid Solution s general and administrative expenses
for the three month period subsequent to the May 1, 2006 acquisition.   

   General and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales were
15.7% in fiscal 2006 compared with 14.7% in fiscal 2005.  The increase in
general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily
attributable to the aforementioned factors.  

   Research and development expenses (which include continuing engineering
costs) increased by $1,018,000 to $5,117,000 in fiscal 2006 from $4,099,000 in
fiscal 2005 . The majority of our research and development expenses
related to our Dyped endoscope reprocessor and specialty filtration products.
The increase in research and development expenses in fiscal 2006 compared with
fiscal 2005 was primarily due to ongoing research and development on those
products.  

    Interest    

  In fiscal 2006, interest expense increased by $2,786,000 to $4,232,000
from $1,446,000 in   

38     

fiscal
2005  primarily due to the significant increase in average outstanding
borrowings as a result of financing a portion of the purchase price of the
August 1, 2005 acquisition of Crosstex.  

  Interest income
increased by $333,000 to $839,000 in fiscal 2006 from $506,000 in fiscal 2005
primarily due to an increase in average interest rates in fiscal 2006 and a
higher average cash balance.  

    Income
from continuing operations before taxes    

  Income from continuing operations before income taxes decreased by
$1,431,000 to $11,951,000 in fiscal 2006 from $13,382,000 in fiscal 2005.  

    Income taxes    

  The consolidated
effective tax rate was 44.3% and 41.0% for fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

  We have provided
income tax expense for our United States operations at the statutory tax rate;
however, actual payment of U.S. Federal income taxes reflects the benefits of
the utilization of the remaining Federal net operating loss carryforwards ( NOLs )
accumulated in the United States. Our NOLs were fully utilized during the three
months ended October 31, 2005.  

  Our results of
continuing operations for fiscal 2006 and 2005 also reflect income tax expense
for our international subsidiaries at their respective statutory rates. Such
international subsidiaries include our subsidiaries in Canada and Japan, which
had effective tax rates in fiscal 2006 of approximately 49.2% and 47.9%, respectively.
A partial income tax benefit was recorded in fiscal 2006 on the losses from
operations at our Netherlands subsidiary.  

  The higher overall
effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005 is principally due
to the geographic mix of pretax income, an increase in the statutory United
States tax rate to 35% from 34%, an increase in our overall state income tax
rate to approximately 8% from 6% due to the Crosstex acquisition, losses
related to our Netherlands operation for which only a partial income tax
benefit was recorded and stock-based compensation during fiscal 2006 for which
only a partial income tax benefit was recorded (including our Canadian
operations which no tax benefit was recorded), partially offset by the domestic
production deduction resulting from the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.  

    Stock-Based Compensation    

  On August 1, 2005, we adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123,   Share-Based Payment
(Revised 2004)   ( SFAS 123R ) using the modified prospective method
for the transition. Under the modified prospective method, stock-based
compensation expense will be recognized for any option grant or stock award
granted on or after August 1, 2005, as well as the unvested portion of stock
options granted prior to August 1, 2005, based upon the award s fair value. For
fiscal 2005 and earlier periods, we have accounted for stock options using the
intrinsic value method under which stock compensation expense is not recognized
because we granted stock options with exercise prices equal to the market value
of the shares at the date of grant.  

39     

The
following table shows the income statement components of stock-based
compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income in
fiscal 2006:  

Most of our stock
options are subject to graded vesting in which portions of the option award
vest at different times during the vesting period, as opposed to awards that
vest at the end of the vesting period. We recognize compensation expense for
options subject to graded vesting using the straight-line basis, reduced by
estimated forfeitures. Total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense
related to total nonvested stock options was $651,000 at July 31, 2006 with a
remaining weighted average period of 18 months over which such expense is
expected to be recognized.  

  For the year ended July 31, 2006, we recorded stock-based compensation
expense in the amount of $1,178,000 (which decreased both basic and diluted
earnings per share from net income by $0.06) with a corresponding increase to
additional capital, partially offset by the related income tax benefits of
$248,000 (which pertain to options that do not qualify as incentive stock
options) with a corresponding increase in long-term deferred income tax assets
(which are netted with long-term deferred income tax liabilities).  

   If certain criteria are met when an option is exercised, the Company is
allowed a deduction on our income tax return.  Accordingly , we account for the income tax effect on such
income tax deductions as additional capital (assuming deferred tax assets do
not exist pertaining to the exercised stock options) and as a reduction of
income taxes payable. In fiscal 2006, option exercises resulted in income tax
deductions that reduced income taxes payable by $1,166,000.   

  At July 31, 2005 (prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R), we presented all
tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of stock options as
operating cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Beginning
August 1, 2005, we changed our cash flow presentation in accordance with SFAS
123R, which requires the cash flows resulting from excess tax benefits to be
classified as financing cash flows. In fiscal 2006, $787,000 in excess tax
benefits were shown as financing cash flows in our Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows. Excess tax benefits arise when the ultimate tax effect of the
deduction for tax purposes is greater than the tax benefit on stock
compensation expense (including tax benefits on stock compensation expense that
has only been reflected in the pro forma disclosures) which was determined
based upon the award s fair value.  

  In fiscal 2005, we
accelerated the vesting of certain unvested and  out-of-the-money  stock
options previously awarded to certain executive officers and other employees
(67 individuals in total) under   

40     

our 1997 Employee
Stock Option Plan. Such options had exercise prices greater than $16.85, the
closing price on June 24, 2005, the date that our Board of Directors authorized
such acceleration. Options to purchase 759,650 shares of common stock (of which
approximately 577,500 shares are subject to options held by executive officers)
were subject to this acceleration. All other terms and conditions of the
options remain in effect. Options held by non-employee directors were not
included in the acceleration. Because these options had exercise prices in
excess of the market value of Cantel common stock on June 24, 2005, and
therefore were not fully achieving our original objectives of incentive
compensation and employee retention, we expect the acceleration may have a
positive effect on employee morale, retention and perception of option value.
The acceleration eliminated any future compensation expense we would otherwise
recognize in our income statement with respect to these options with the August
1, 2005 implementation of SFAS 123R. The compensation expense, after tax,
related to this acceleration totaled approximately $3,400,000. If such
acceleration did not occur, we would have recognized additional compensation
expense, net of tax, of approximately $1,300,000, $1,300,000, $600,000 and
$200,000 in fiscal 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively,  based on the fair value of the options granted at
grant date over the original vesting period.   

    Fiscal 2005 compared with Fiscal 2004    

    Net sales    

   Net sales increased by $14,116,000, or 11.5%, to $137,157,000 in fiscal
2005 from $123,041,000 in fiscal 2004.  Net sales of our pre-existing
business increased by $9,701,000, or 7.9%, to $132,073,000 for fiscal 2005 from
$122,372,000 in fiscal 2004. Net sales contributed by Saf-T-Pak in fiscal 2005
and the last two months of fiscal 2004 were $5,084,000 and $669,000,
respectively.  

  Net sales were
positively impacted in fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004 by approximately
$722,000 due to the translation of Canadian net sales of our Water Purification
and Filtration reporting segment using a stronger Canadian dollar against the
United States dollar.  

  In addition, net
sales were positively impacted in fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004 by
approximately $732,000 due to the translation of our Netherlands subsidiary net
sales using a stronger euro against the United States dollar. The majority of
the net sales of our Netherlands subsidiary are included in the Dialysis
reporting segment.  

  Increases in
selling prices of our products did not have a significant effect on net sales
in fiscal 2005.  

  The increase in net sales of our pre-existing business
in fiscal 2005 was principally attributable to increases in sales of endoscope
reprocessing products and services, dialysis products and therapeutic products.
These increases in net sales were partially offset by a small decrease in sales
of water purification and filtration products.  

  The increase in
sales of endoscope reprocessing products and services of 16.0% in fiscal 2005
compared with fiscal 2004 was primarily due to an increase in sales of
disinfectants, consumables and product service, both in the United States and
internationally. The increase in sales of these products can be attributed to
the increased field population of equipment (including our  

41  

Dyped endoscope
disinfection equipment in Europe) and our ability to convert users of
competitive disinfectants to our products.  

  Sales
of dialysis products and services increased by 7.6% in fiscal 2005 as compared
with fiscal 2004 primarily due to an increase in customer demand in the United
States and by an international customer for dialysate concentrate (a
concentrated acid or bicarbonate used to prepare dialysate, a chemical solution
that draws waste products from a patient s blood through a dialyzer membrane
during hemodialysis treatment) and an increase in domestic demand for dialysis
supplies. Partially offsetting the increase in sales were lower average selling
prices for our Renalin (sterilant) product due to increased sales to large
national chains that typically receive lower prices.  

  The
dialysis industry has been undergoing significant consolidation through the
acquisition by certain major dialysis chains of smaller chains and
independents. In October 2005, DaVita Inc. ( DaVita ), the second-largest
dialysis chain in the United States, acquired Gambro AB s United States
dialysis clinic business, Gambro Healthcare, Inc. ( Gambro US ). In addition,
in May 2005, Fresenius Medical Care AG ( Fresenius ), the largest dialysis
chain in the United States and a provider of single-use dialyzer products,
announced that it entered into an agreement to acquire Renal Care Group, Inc. ( RCG ).
DaVita, Gambro US, and RCG are significant customers of our dialysis reuse
products. If Fresenius s acquisition is consummated, and if Fresenius converts
all or substantially all of the dialysis clinics of RCG into single-use
facilities, our sales of dialysis products will be adversely affected. In
addition, the consolidation of dialysis providers could result in greater buying
power by the larger resulting entities and thereby a reduction in our net sales
and profit margins due to reduced average selling prices of dialysis products.
However, given the uncertainty of the post-acquisition operating strategies
with respect to these two transactions and the potential regulatory required
divesture of some of their dialysis clinics, we are currently unable to
determine the impact on our future sales of dialysis products and services.  

   Sales in the All Other reporting segment increased 78.5%
in fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004. Net sales contributed by the
Specialty Packaging operating segment in fiscal 2005 were $5,084,000, an
increase of $4,415,000 compared with the last two months of fiscal 2004
subsequent to the date of the acquisition. Net sales contributed by the
Therapeutic Filtration operating segment were $8,816,000, an increase of
$1,698,000, or 23.9%, in fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004. The increase in
sales of therapeutic products was primarily  due to an increase in
customer demand for our pediatric filters in the United States and domestic and
international demand for our hemofilters (a device that performs a slow,
continuous blood filtration therapy used to control fluid overload and acute
renal failure in unstable, critically ill patients who cannot tolerate the
rapid filtration rates of conventional hemodialysis).  

  Sales of water
purification and filtration products and services decreased by 2.0% in fiscal
2005 compared with fiscal 2004 primarily due to the recognition of certain
large low margin water purification equipment sales during fiscal 2004, which
orders had been accepted prior to the acquisition of Biolab. After the
acquisition was completed, we made a decision not to sell our water
purification equipment at such a low margin, thereby resulting in lower (but
more profitable) sales. Partially offsetting this decrease were increases in
demand for our water filtration products in the United States and international
sales of our new Minncare Dry Fog disinfection system.  

42     

Gross
profit    

   Gross profit increased by $8,943,000, or 19.9%, to $53,881,000 in
fiscal 2005 from $44,938,000 in fiscal 2004.  Gross profit of our
pre-existing business increased by $6,178,000, or 13.9%, to $50,782,000 in
fiscal 2005 from $44,604,000 in fiscal 2004. Gross profit contributed by
Saf-T-Pak in fiscal 2005 and the last two months of fiscal 2004 were $3,099,000
and $334,000, respectively.  

  Gross profit as a
percentage of net sales was 39.3% in fiscal 2005, compared with 36.5% in fiscal
2004.  Gross profit as a percentage of net
sales of our pre-existing business in fiscal 2005 was 38.4%, compared with
36.4% in fiscal 2004. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales for Saf-T-Pak
in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 was 61.0% and 49.9%, respectively.   

  The higher gross
profit percentage from our pre-existing business in fiscal 2005 as compared
with fiscal 2004 was primarily attributable to improved overhead absorption due
to increased sales volume as well as favorable sales mix in our Endoscope Reprocessing
and Therapeutic Filtration reporting segments. Partially offsetting these
increases in gross profit percentage was a lower gross profit percentage on our
dialysis products due to sales mix (as we sold more dialysate concentrate
products) and a lower average selling price on dialysate concentrate as a
result of increased sales to large national chains that typically receive lower
prices.  

  The favorable
Canadian dollar exchange rates lowered the cost of inventory purchased from
suppliers in the United States by our Canadian division of our Water
Purification and Filtration operating segment, and therefore decreased cost of
sales and increased gross profit, by approximately $178,000 in fiscal 2005
compared with fiscal 2004. In addition, gross profit was positively impacted in
fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004 by approximately $263,000 due to the
translation of gross profit using a stronger Canadian dollar against the United
States dollar (which also impacts net sales and therefore has no impact on gross
profit as a percentage of net sales).  Similarly,
gross profit was positively impacted in fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004
by approximately $143,000 due to the translation of our Netherlands subsidiary
gross profit using a stronger euro against the United States dollar.   

    Operating expenses    

  Selling expenses increased by $720,000 to $15,266,000 in fiscal 2005
from $14,546,000 in fiscal 2004 principally due to the inclusion of an
additional $630,000 of Saf-T-Pak s selling expenses for fiscal 2005 as compared
with the last two months of fiscal 2004 and increases in commissions and
incentive compensation (except in our Dialysis reporting segment) due to
improved operating results. Partially offsetting the increase in selling
expenses were decreases in sales and marketing personnel and commissions in our
dialysis reporting segment in response to the consolidation of the dialysis
industry since an increasing percentage of our sales of our dialysis products
are to major dialysis chains as compared to small chains and independent
dialysis clinics.  

  Selling expenses
as a percentage of net sales were 11.1% in fiscal 2005 compared with 11.8% in
fiscal 2004. The decrease in selling expenses as a percentage of net sales was
primarily attributable to the favorable impact of increased net sales against
the fixed component of selling expenses, and  decreases
in sales and marketing personnel and commissions in our dialysis reporting
segment in response to the consolidation of the dialysis industry .  

43     

General and administrative expenses increased by $3,858,000 to
$20,194,000 in fiscal 2005 from $16,336,000 in fiscal 2004 p rincipally
due to the inclusion of an additional $1,077,000 of Saf-T-Pak s general and
administrative expenses for fiscal 2005 as compared with the last two months of
fiscal 2004; increased accounting and consulting costs of approximately
$696,000 relating to corporate governance (Sarbanes Oxley compliance) and the
annual audit of our financial statements; an increase in incentive compensation
of approximately $843,000;   an
increase of approximately $430,000 due to additional executive personnel; and  the translation of Canadian expenses relating to
our Water Purification and Filtration segment using a stronger Canadian dollar
against the United States dollar which resulted in an additional $103,000 of
general and administrative expenses . Partially offsetting these
increases was a decrease in bad debt expense due to the collection of several
delinquent receivables and a $295,000 provision for legal claims recorded during
fiscal 2004.  

   Research and development expenses (which include continuing engineering
costs) decreased by $113,000 to $4,099,000 in fiscal 2005 from $4,212,000 in
fiscal 2004 . The majority of research and development expenses for
fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 related to the Dyped endoscope reprocessor and
specialty filtration products.  

    Interest    

   In fiscal 2005, interest expense decreased by $300,000 to $1,446,000
from $1,746,000 in fiscal 2004,  principally due to the decrease in
average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by an increase in average
interest rates. Interest income increased by $325,000 to $506,000 in fiscal
2005 from $181,000 in fiscal 2004, principally due to an increase in cash
available for short-term investments.  

    Income
from continuing operations before taxes    

  Income from continuing operations before income taxes increased by
$5,035,000 to $13,382,000 in fiscal 2005 from $8,347,000 in fiscal 2004.  

    Income taxes    

  The consolidated
effective tax rate was 41.0% and 41.6% for fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  We have provided
income tax expense for our United States operations at the statutory tax rate;
however, actual payment of United States Federal income taxes reflects the
benefits of the utilization of the Federal net operating loss carryforwards ( NOLs )
accumulated in the United States. At July 31, 2005, such Federal net operating
loss carryforwards were approximately $387,000. Since these NOLs will be fully
utilized in fiscal 2006, we will be making payments of United States Federal
income taxes during fiscal 2006. Our United States effective tax rate was 36.9%
during fiscal 2005 compared with 37.0% during fiscal 2004.  

  Our results of
operations for fiscal 2005 and 2004 also reflect income tax expense for our
international subsidiaries at their respective statutory rates. Such
international subsidiaries include our subsidiaries in Canada, and Japan, which
had effective tax rates during fiscal 2005 of   

44     

approximately 35.3% and
45.0%, respectively. In fiscal 2005 and 2004, our Netherlands subsidiary had an
overall loss (primarily due to research and development expenses attributable
to the Dyped product line) for which no corresponding tax benefit was recorded.
As a result, our consolidated effective tax rate of 41.0% is higher than our United
States and Canadian effective tax rates.  

   Liquidity
and Capital Resources   

    Working capital    

  At July 31, 2006,
our working capital was $43,351,000, compared with $51,015,000 at July 31,
2005.  This decrease was primarily due to
the use of cash to repay $46,050,000 of our outstanding borrowings during
fiscal 2006, most of which had been classified as long-term debt during the
year. The funds utilized to repay such debt came principally from proceeds from
the disposal of the discontinued operations as well as earnings from our
continuing operations. Partially offsetting these items was the acquisition of
Crosstex, which contributed $9,752,000 in working capital at August 1, 2005,
the date of acquisition (such Crosstex net assets were reduced by $3,667,000 at
July 31, 2006 due to the recording of an earnout payable to the former Crosstex
sellers.)   

    Cash
flows from operating activities    

  Net cash provided
by operating activities was $22,061,000, $24,773,000 and $19,544,000 for fiscal
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In fiscal 2006, the net cash provided by
operating activities was primarily due to net income (after adjusting for
depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, gain on sale
of discontinued operations and deferred income taxes), and decreases in
accounts receivable (due to a decrease in net sales primarily in our Dialysis
segment), partially offset by an increase in inventories (due to timing of
sales) and a decrease in  assets and
liabilities of discontinued operations (due to the sale of substantially all of
Carsen s assets on July 31, 2006). In fiscal 2005, the net cash provided by
operating activities was primarily due to net income (after adjusting for
depreciation and amortization, and deferred income taxes) and an increase in accounts
payable, deferred revenue and accrued expenses (due primarily to increased
incentive compensation payable as a result of improved operating results),
partially offset by an increases in accounts receivable (due to an increase in
sales) and net assets of discontinued operations (due to strong operating
results at Carsen). In fiscal 2004, net cash provided by operating activities
was primarily due to net income (after adjusting for depreciation and
amortization, and deferred income taxes) and an increase in income taxes
payable, partially offset by increases in net assets of discontinued operations
(due to strong operating results at Carsen).  

    Cash
flows from investing activities    

  Net cash used in
investing activities was $45,950,000, $3,626,000 and $26,696,000 in fiscal
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In fiscal 2006, the net cash used in
investing activities was primarily due to the acquisition of Crosstex and
capital expenditures, partially offset by the proceeds received from the sale
of our discontinued operations. In fiscal 2005, the net cash used in investing
activities was primarily for capital expenditures. In fiscal 2004, net cash
used in investing activities was primarily due to the acquisitions of Biolab,
Mar Cor, Dyped and Saf-T-Pak and capital expenditures.  

45     

Cash
flows from financing activities    

  Net cash provided
by financing activities was $20,127,000 in fiscal 2006, compared with net cash
used in financing activities of $6,519,000 in fiscal 2005 and net cash provided
by financing activities of $7,053,000 in fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2006, net cash
provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to borrowings under
our credit facilities related to the acquisition of Crosstex, net of debt
issuance costs, and proceeds from the exercises of options, partially offset by
repayments under our credit facilities and the purchase of treasury stock. In
fiscal 2005, the net cash used in financing activities was primarily
attributable to repayments under our credit facilities, partially offset by exercises
of stock options. In fiscal 2004, the net cash provided by financing activities
was primarily attributable to borrowings under our credit facilities related to
the acquisitions of Mar Cor and Saf-T-Pak, net of debt issuance costs, and
proceeds from the exercises of stock options, partially offset by repayments
under our credit facilities.  

    Discontinued
Operations -Termination of Carsen s Operations    

   On July 31 , 2006, Carsen closed the sale of substantially all of
its assets to Olympus under an Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of May 16,
2006 among Carsen, Cantel and Olympus. Olympus purchased substantially all of
Carsen s assets other than those related to Carsen s Medivators business and
certain other smaller product lines. Following the closing, Olympus hired
substantially all of Carsen s employees and took over Carsen s Olympus-related
operations (as well as the operations related to the other acquired product
lines). The transaction resulted in an after-tax gain of approximately
$6,776,000 and was recorded separately on the Consolidated Statements of Income
as gain on disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax. In connection with
the transaction, Carsen s Medivators-related assets as well as certain of its
other assets that were not acquired by Olympus were sold to our new Canadian
distributor of Medivators products.  

  The purchase price
for the net assets sold to Olympus was approximately $31,200,000, comprised of
a fixed sum of $10,000,000 plus an additional formula-based sum of $21,200,000.
In addition, Olympus will pay Carsen 20% of Olympus  revenues attributable to
Carsen s unfilled customer orders as of July 31, 2006 that were assumed by
Olympus at the closing. Such payments to Carsen (currently anticipated to be
approximately $450,000) will be made following Olympus  receipt of customer
payments for such orders.  

  The $10,000,000
fixed portion of the purchase price was in consideration for (i) Carsen s
customer lists, sales records, and certain other assets related to the sale and
servicing of Olympus products and certain non-Olympus products distributed by
Carsen, (ii) the release of Olympus  contractual restriction on hiring Carsen
personnel, (iii) real property leases (which were assumed or replaced by
Olympus) and leasehold improvements, computer and software systems, equipment
and machinery, telephone systems, and records related to the acquired assets,
and (iv) assisting Olympus in effecting a smooth transition of Carsen s
business of distributing and servicing Olympus and certain non-Olympus products
in Canada. Cantel has also agreed (on behalf of itself and its affiliates) not
to manufacture, distribute, sell or represent for sale in Canada through July
31, 2007 any products that are competitive with the Olympus products formerly
sold by Carsen under its Olympus Distribution Agreements.  

46     

The $21,200,000
formula-based portion of the purchase price was based on the book value of
Carsen s inventories of Olympus and certain non-Olympus products and the face
amount of Carsen s accounts receivable and certain other assets, all at July
31, 2006, subject to offsets, particularly for accounts payable of Carsen due
to Olympus.  

  Net proceeds from
Carsen s sale of net assets and the termination of Carsen s operations were
approximately $21,100,000 (excluding the backlog payments) after satisfaction
of remaining liabilities and taxes.  

  As a result of the
foregoing transaction, which coincided with the expiration of Carsen s
exclusive distribution agreements with Olympus on July 31, 2006, Carsen no
longer has any remaining product lines or active business operations.  

  The net sales and
operating income attributable to Carsen s business (inclusive of both Olympus
and non-Olympus business, but exclusive of the sale of Medivators reprocessors)
constitute the entire Endoscopy and Surgical reporting segment and Scientific
operating segment, which historically was included within the All Other
reporting segment.  

  Operating segment
information and net income attributable to Carsen s business is summarized
below:  

Prior
to being reported as discontinued operations, fiscal 2006 net sales and
operating income of Carsen accounted for approximately 25.3% and 53.3% of our
fiscal 2006 consolidated net sales and operating income, respectively.  

47     

Cash flows
attributable to discontinued operations comprise the following:  

Financing
activities of our discontinued operations did not result in any net cash in
fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004.  

    Direct
Sale of Medivators Systems in the United States    

  On August 2, 2006,
we commenced the sale and service of our Medivators brand endoscope
reprocessing equipment, high-level disinfectants, cleaners and consumables
through our own United States field sales and service organization. Our direct
sale of these products is the result of our decision that it is in our best
long-term interests to control and develop our own direct-hospital based United
States distribution network and, as such, not to renew Olympus  exclusive
United States distribution agreement when it expired on August 1, 2006.  

  Throughout the
former distribution arrangement with Olympus, we employed our own personnel to
provide clinical sales support activities as well as an internal technical and
customer service function, depot maintenance and service and all logistics and
distribution services for the Medivators/Olympus customer base. This existing
and fully developed infrastructure will continue to be a critical factor in our
new direct sales and service strategy. During fiscal 2006, we incurred $806,000
to develop our field sales and service organization in preparation for the
August 2, 2006 implementation of our new sales and service strategy.  

  During the
seven-year period following the expiration of the distribution agreement with
Olympus on August 1, 2006, Olympus will have the option to provide certain
ongoing support functions to its existing customer base of Medivators products,
subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement. In addition, Olympus may
continue to purchase from Minntech for resale in connection with such support
functions, Medivators accessories, consumables, and replacement and repair
parts, as well as Rapicide     disinfectant. 

48     

Long-term
contractual obligations    

  Aggregate
annual required payments over the next five years and thereafter under our
contractual obligations that have long-term components are as follows:  

(1)             The
expected interest payments under the credit facilities reflect an interest rate
of 6.75%, which was our weighted average interest rate on outstanding
borrowings at September 18, 2006. 

    Credit
facilities    

  In conjunction
with the acquisition of Crosstex, we entered into amended and restated credit
facilities dated as of August 1, 2005 (the  2005 U.S. Credit Facilities )
with a consortium of United States lenders to fund the cash consideration paid
in the acquisition and costs associated with the acquisition, as well as to
modify our existing United States credit facilities. The 2005 U.S. Credit
Facilities include (i) a six-year $40.0 million senior secured amortizing
term loan facility and (ii) a five-year $35.0 million senior secured
revolving credit facility. In addition, we agreed to repay the July 31, 2005
outstanding borrowings of $15,750,000 under our original term loan facility
within ninety (90) days from the closing. In October 2005, such amount was
repaid primarily through the repatriation of funds from our foreign
subsidiaries. Amounts we repay under the term loan facility may not be
re-borrowed. Additionally, we incurred debt issuance costs of approximately
$1,426,000, of which $160,000 of third-party costs was recorded in general and
administrative expenses during the three months ended October 31, 2005 in
accordance with applicable accounting rules. The remaining $1,266,000 of costs
was recorded in other assets and will be amortized over the life of the credit
facilities.  

  Borrowings under
the 2005 U.S. Credit Facilities bear interest at rates ranging from 0% to 0.75%
above the lender s base rate, or at rates ranging from 1.0% to 2.0% above the
London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ), depending upon our consolidated ratio
of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and
as further adjusted under the terms of the 2005 U.S. Credit Facilities ( EBITDA ). At
September 18, 2006, the lender s base rate was 8.25% and the LIBOR rates ranged
from 5.50% to 5.53%. The margins applicable to our outstanding   

49     

borrowings at September
18, 2006 were 0.00% above the lender s base rate and 1.25% above LIBOR.
Substantially all of our outstanding borrowings were under LIBOR contracts at
September 18, 2006. The 2005 U.S. Credit Facilities also provide for fees on
the unused portion of our facilities at rates ranging from 0.20% to 0.40%,
depending upon our consolidated ratio of debt to EBITDA; such rate was 0.25% at
September 18, 2006.  

  The 2005 U.S. Credit
Facilities require us to meet certain financial covenants and are secured by
(i) substantially all of our U.S.-based assets (including assets of
Cantel, Minntech, Mar Cor and Crosstex) and (ii) our pledge of all of the
outstanding shares of Minntech, Mar Cor and Crosstex and 65% of the outstanding
shares of our foreign-based subsidiaries. In June 2006, Crosstex obtained a
600,000 euro standby letter of credit from its former bank relating to a fixed
asset being constructed for Crosstex. Subsequent to July 31, 2006, a waiver was
received from our lenders permitting the standby letter of credit. We are in
compliance with all financial and other covenants under the 2005 U.S. Credit
Facilities.  

  On July 31, 2006,
we had $38,000,000 of outstanding borrowings under the 2005 U.S. Credit
Facilities all of which was under the United States term loan facility. In July
2006, we terminated our Canadian-based senior secured revolving credit facility
with a Canadian bank due to the July 31, 2006 sale of substantially all of
Carsen s assets.  

    Operating
leases    

  Minimum
commitments under operating leases include minimum rental commitments for our
leased manufacturing facilities, warehouses, office space and equipment.  

  Rent expense
related to operating leases for fiscal 2006 was recorded on a straight-line
basis and aggregated $2,881,000 (including rent expense attributable to our
Dental segment of approximately $782,000) compared with $2,024,000 and
$1,703,000 for fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. The fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004
amounts exclude rent expense related to our discontinued operations.  

    Capital
leases    

  Minimum
commitments under capital leases are for four trucks used in our Water
Purification and Filtration business. The aggregate cost of the four trucks was
approximately $122,000. At July 31, 2006 and 2005, the net book value included
in property and equipment was approximately $12,000 and $41,000, respectively.  

    Dyped
note payable and other long-term liabilities    

  In conjunction
with the Dyped acquisition on September 12, 2003, we issued a note with a face
value of  1,350,000 ($1,505,000 using the exchange rate on the date of the
acquisition). At July 31, 2006, approximately $1,372,000 of this note was
outstanding using the exchange rate on July 31, 2006. Such note is non-interest
bearing and has been recorded at its present value of $1,282,000 at July 31,
2006. The current portion of this note is recorded in accrued expenses and the
remainder is recorded in other long-term liabilities.   

  Also included in
other long-term liabilities are deferred compensation arrangements for   

50     

certain former Minntech
directors and officers.  

    Financing needs    

  In fiscal 2006, we
repatriated $46,872,000 of existing accumulated profits from our international
subsidiaries, of which $44,872,000 came from our discontinued operations. Most
of such repatriations were used for debt repayment. At July 31, 2006, we had a
cash balance of $29,898,000.  

  We believe that
our current cash position, anticipated cash flows from operations, and the
funds available under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to
satisfy our cash operating requirements for the foreseeable future based upon
our existing operations. At September 18, 2006, the entire $35,000,000 under
our United States revolving credit facility was available.  

    Repurchase
of shares    

  In April 2006, our
Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to 500,000 shares of our
outstanding Common Stock. Under the repurchase program we repurchase shares
from time-to-time at prevailing prices and as permitted by applicable
securities laws (including SEC Rule 10b-18) and New York Stock Exchange
requirements, and subject to market conditions. The repurchase program has a
one-year term ending April 12, 2007.  

  The first purchase
under our repurchase program occurred on April 19, 2006. Through July 31, 2006,
we had completed the repurchase of 303,000 shares under the repurchase program.  

  The following
table summarizes the repurchase of Common Stock under the repurchase program
during fiscal 2006:  

Through September
18, 2006, we had completed the purchase of 349,600 shares under the repurchase
program at a total average price per share of $14.14. Therefore, at September
18, 2006, the maximum number of shares that may be purchased under the program
are 150,400 shares.  

    Foreign
currency    

  During fiscal 2006
compared with fiscal 2005, the average value of the Canadian dollar increased
by approximately 7.7% relative to the value of the United States dollar.
Changes in the value of the Canadian dollar against the United States dollar
affect our results of operations principally for the following reasons:  

  (i)                      Our Canadian
subsidiaries (which are included in the Specialty Packaging and Water 

51  

Purification and
Filtration segments) purchase a portion of their inventories in United States
dollars and sell a significant amount of their products in United States
dollars and therefore are exposed to realized foreign currency gains and losses
upon payment of such payables and the collection of such receivables.
Similarly, such United States denominated assets and liabilities must be
converted into their functional Canadian currency when preparing their
financial statements, which results in realized foreign exchange gains and
losses. The increase in the average value of the Canadian dollar, as explained
above, primarily resulted in gains for such liabilities and losses for such
assets. Since our Canadian subsidiaries had more assets than liabilities denominated
in United States dollars, the increase in the average value of the Canadian
dollar had an adverse affect on their results of operations in fiscal 2006.  

  (ii)                   The results of
operations of our Canadian subsidiaries are translated from their functional
Canadian currency to United States dollars for purposes of preparing our
consolidated financial statements. The increase in the average value of the
Canadian dollar, as explained above, had an overall positive impact upon our
results of operations due to translating the results of operations in fiscal
2006 at a higher average currency exchange rate as compared with the average
currency exchange rate used to translate the results of operations in fiscal
2005. 

  During fiscal
2006, such strengthening of the Canadian dollar relative to the United States
dollar had an overall positive impact upon our results of operations (including
the discontinued operations.) With respect to our continuing operations, there
was an overall adverse impact.  

  During fiscal 2006
compared with fiscal 2005, the value of the euro decreased by approximately
3.8% relative to the value of the United States dollar. Changes in the value of
the euro against the United States dollar affect our results of operations for
the following reasons:  

  (i)                    Our
Netherlands subsidiary (which is reported in our Dialysis and Endoscope
Reprocessing segments) maintains a portion of its cash in United States
dollars, sells some of its products in United States dollars and pays various
liabilities in United States dollars. Therefore, it is exposed to realized
foreign currency gains and losses upon activity in such dollar cash accounts,
collection of such receivables and payment of such liabilities. Similarly, such
United States denominated assets and liabilities must be converted into their
functional euro currency when preparing their financial statements, which
results in realized foreign exchange gains and losses. The decrease in the
average value of the euro, as explained above, primarily resulted in losses for
such liabilities and gains for such assets. Since our Netherlands subsidiary
had more assets than liabilities denominated in United States dollars, the
decrease in the average value of the euro had an overall positive affect on our
results of operations in fiscal 2006. 

  (ii)                   The results of
operations of our Netherlands subsidiary are translated from its functional
euro currency to United States dollars for the purpose of preparing our
consolidated financial statements. The decrease in the average value of the
euro, as explained above, had an overall positive impact upon our results of
operations due to translating the fiscal 2006 results of operations (which had
an overall loss) at a lower average currency exchange rate as compared with the
average currency exchange rate used to translate the fiscal 2005 results of
operations (which also had an overall loss). 

52     

During fiscal
2006, such weakening of the euro relative to the United States dollar had an
overall positive impact upon our results of operations.  

  In order to hedge
against the impact of fluctuations in the value of the euro relative to the
United States dollar on the conversion of such dollar denominated net assets
into functional currency, we enter into short-term contracts to purchase euros
forward, which contracts are generally one month in duration. These short-term
contracts are designated as fair value hedges. Due to the insignificant net
amount of assets and liabilities of our Netherlands subsidiary denominated in
United States dollars at September 18, 2006, we did not have any foreign
currency forward contracts on that date. Under our credit facilities, such
contracts to purchase euros may not exceed $12,000,000 in an aggregate notional
amount at any time. During fiscal 2006, such forward contracts were effective
in offsetting most of the impact of the weakening of the euro on our results of
operations.  

   In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
No. 133, as amended,   Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   ( SFAS 133 ), all of
our foreign currency forward contracts were designated as hedges.  Gains
and losses related to the hedging contracts to buy euros forward are
immediately realized within general and administrative expenses due to the
short-term nature of such contracts.  

  For
purposes of translating the balance sheet at July 31, 2006 compared with July
31, 2005, the value of the Canadian dollar increased by approximately 8.2% and
the value of the euro increased by approximately 5.2% compared with the value
of the United States dollar. The total of these currency movements resulted in
a foreign currency translation gain of $1,004,000 during fiscal 2006 after
adjusting for the realization of the cumulative translation adjustment related
to our discontinued operations, thereby increasing stockholders  equity.  

  Changes in the
value of the Japanese yen relative to the United States dollar during fiscal
2006 compared with fiscal 2005 did not have a significant impact upon either
our results of operations or the translation of our balance sheet, primarily
due to the fact that our Japanese subsidiary accounts for a relatively small
portion of consolidated net sales, net income and net assets.  

    Inflation    

  During fiscal 2006
we experienced higher materials, labor, and distribution costs compared with
fiscal 2005, which cost increases were in excess of the general rate of
inflation. We implemented price increases for certain of our products which
partially offset these cost increases; however, our pre-existing businesses
(primarily the Dialysis and Water Purification and Filtration segments) were
unable to obtain higher selling prices as more fully described in  Results of
Operations.   

   Critical Accounting Policies   

  Our discussion and
analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon
our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The
preparation of these financial   

53     

statements requires us to
make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, net sales and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we continually evaluate our
estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the
results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values
of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.  

  We believe the
following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments
and estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Although Carsen was reported as discontinued operations in fiscal 2006, the
Endoscopy and Surgical, Scientific and related portion of the Endoscope
Reprocessing operating segments adhered to our critical accounting policies
described below.  

    Revenue
Recognition    

  Revenue on product
sales (excluding certain sales of endoscope reprocessing equipment in the
United States) is recognized as products are shipped to customers and title
passes. The passing of title is determined based upon the FOB terms specified
for each shipment. With respect to dialysis, therapeutic, specialty packaging
and a portion of endoscope reprocessing products, shipment terms are generally
FOB origin for common carrier and FOB destination when our distribution fleet
is utilized (except for one large customer in dialysis whereby all products are
shipped FOB destination). With respect to endoscopy and surgical, water
purification and filtration, scientific products and dental products, shipment
terms may be either FOB origin or destination. Customer acceptance for the
majority of our product sales occurs at the time of delivery. In certain
instances, primarily with respect to some of our water purification and
filtration equipment and an insignificant amount of our sales of dialysis
equipment and scientific products, post-delivery obligations such as
installation, in-servicing or training are contractually specified; in such
instances, revenue recognition is deferred until all of such conditions have
been substantially fulfilled such that the products are deemed functional by
the end-user. With respect to a portion of endoscopy and surgical, water
purification and filtration and scientific product sales, equipment is sold as
part of a system for which the equipment is functionally interdependent or the
customer s purchase order specifies  ship-complete  as a condition of delivery;
revenue recognition on such sales is deferred until all equipment has been
delivered.  

  With respect to a
portion of endoscopy and surgical sales (all of which is part of the
discontinued operations), we enter into arrangements whereby revenue is
immediately recognized upon the transfer of equipment to customers who pay on a
cost per procedure basis, subject to minimum monthly payments. Such
arrangements are non-cancelable by the customer and provide for a bargain
purchase option by the customer at the conclusion of the term. All direct costs
related to these transactions are recorded at the time of revenue recognition.
Some of such transactions also provide for future servicing of the equipment,
which service revenue component is deferred and recognized over the period that
such services are provided. With respect to these multiple element
arrangements, revenue is allocated to the equipment and service components
based upon vendor specific objective evidence which principally includes
comparable historical transactions of similar equipment and service sold as
stand-alone components.  

  Sales of a
majority of our endoscope reprocessing equipment to a third party distributor
in   

54     

the United States are recognized
on a bill and hold basis. Such sales satisfy each of the following criteria:
(i) the risks of ownership have passed to the third party distributor; (ii) the
third party distributor must provide a written purchase order committing to the
purchase of specified units; (iii) the bill and hold arrangement was
specifically requested by the third party distributor for the purpose of
minimizing the impact of multiple shipments of the units; (iv) the third party
distributor provides specific instructions for shipment to customers, and
completed units held by us for the third party distributor generally do not
exceed three months of anticipated shipments; (v) we have no further
performance obligations with respect to such units; (vi) completed units are invoiced
to the third party distributor with 30 day payment terms and such receivables
are generally satisfied within such terms; and 
(vii) completed units are ready for shipment and segregated in a
designated section of our warehouse reserved only for the third party
distributor. Due to the termination of the Minntech/Olympus distribution
agreement on August 1, 2006, future sales will no longer be made on a bill and
hold basis.  

  Revenue on service
sales is recognized when repairs are completed at the customer s location or
when repairs are completed at our facilities and the products are shipped to
customers. All shipping and handling fees invoiced to customers, such as
freight, are recorded as revenue (and related costs are included within cost of
sales) at the time the sale is recognized.  

  None of our sales,
including the bill and hold sales arrangement, contain right-of-return
provisions, and customer claims for credit or return due to damage, defect,
shortage or other reason must be pre-approved by us before credit is issued or
such product is accepted for return. No cash discounts for early payment are
offered except with respect to a small portion of our sales of dialysis and
dental products and certain prepaid packaging products. We do not offer price
protection, although advance pricing contracts or required notice periods prior
to implementation of price increases exist for certain customers with respect
to many of our products. With respect to certain of our dialysis, endoscope
reprocessing and dental customers, volume rebates and trade-in allowances are
provided; such volume rebates and trade-in allowances are provided for as a
reduction of sales at the time of revenue recognition and amounted to
$1,216,000, $749,000 and $1,035,000 in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Included in the volume rebates for fiscal 2006 is approximately
$1,157,000 in volume rebates as a result of the addition of dental products,
offset by cancellation during the three months ended October 31, 2005 of a
volume rebate program resulting from consolidation in the dialysis industry.
Such allowances are determined based on estimated projections of sales volume
and trade-ins for the entire rebate agreement periods. Trade-in allowances were
not significant during fiscal 2006. If it becomes known that sales volume to
customers will deviate from original projections, the volume rebate provisions
originally established would be adjusted accordingly.  

  The majority of
our dialysis products are sold to end-users; the majority of therapeutic
filtration products, endoscope reprocessing products and services, and dental
products are sold to third party distributors; the majority of endoscopy and
surgical products and services are sold directly to hospitals; the majority of
water purification and filtration products and services are sold directly and
through third-party distributors to hospitals, dialysis clinics, pharmaceutical
and biotechnology companies and other end-users; scientific products and
services are sold to hospitals, laboratories and other end-users; and specialty
packaging products are sold to third-party distributors, medical research
companies, laboratories, pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, government
agencies and other end-users. Sales to all of these customers follow our
revenue recognition policies. Due to the direct distribution of our endoscope
reprocessing products in the   

55     

United States commencing
in fiscal 2007, the majority of our endoscope reprocessing products and
services will be sold directly to hospitals and other end-users.  

    Accounts
Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts    

  Accounts
receivable consist of amounts due to us from normal business activities.
Allowances for doubtful accounts are reserves for the estimated loss from the
inability of customers to make required payments. We use historical experience
as well as current market information in determining the estimate. While actual
losses have historically been within management s expectations and provisions
established, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate,
resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional
allowances may be required. Alternatively, if certain customers paid their
delinquent receivables, reductions in allowances may be required.  

    Inventories    

  Inventories
consist of products which are sold in the ordinary course of our business and
are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. In assessing
the value of inventories, we must make estimates and judgments regarding
reserves required for product obsolescence, aging of inventories and other
issues potentially affecting the saleable condition of products. In performing
such evaluations, we use historical experience as well as current market
information. With few exceptions, the saleable value of our inventories has
historically been within management s expectation and provisions established,
however, rapid changes in the market due to competition, technology and various
other factors could have an adverse effect on the saleable value of our
inventories, resulting in the need for additional reserves.  

    Goodwill and Intangible Assets    

  Certain of our
identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, brand names,
technology, non-compete agreements and patents, are amortized on the
straight-line method over their estimated useful lives which range from 3 to 20
years. Additionally, we have recorded goodwill and trademarks and trade names,
all of which have indefinite useful lives and are therefore not amortized. All
of our intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an
asset may not be recoverable, and goodwill and intangible assets with
indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment at least annually .  Our management is primarily responsible
for determining if impairment exists and considers a number of factors,
including third-party valuations, when making these determinations. In
performing a review for goodwill impairment, management uses a two-step process
that begins with an estimation of the fair value of the related operating
segments. The first step is a review for potential impairment, and the second
step measures the amount of impairment, if any. In performing our annual review
for indefinite lived intangibles, management compares the current fair value of
such assets to their carrying values. With respect to amortizable intangible
assets when impairment indicators are present, management would determine
whether non-discounted cash flows would be sufficient to recover the carrying
value of the assets; if not, the carrying value of the assets would be adjusted
to their fair value. On July 31, 2006, management concluded that none of our
intangible assets or goodwill was impaired. While the results of these annual
reviews have historically not indicated impairment, impairment reviews are
highly dependent on management s projections of our future operating results
which management believes to be reasonable.  

56     

Long-lived
assets    

  We evaluate the
carrying value of long-lived assets including property, equipment and other
assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable. An assessment is made to determine if the sum of
the expected future non-discounted cash flows from the use of the assets and
eventual disposition is less than the carrying value. If the sum of the
expected non-discounted cash flows is less than the carrying value, an
impairment loss is recognized based on fair value. With few exceptions, our
historical assessments of our long-lived assets have not differed significantly
from the actual amounts realized. However, the determination of fair value
requires us to make certain assumptions and estimates and is highly subjective,
and accordingly, actual amounts realized may differ significantly from our
estimate.  

    Warranties    

  We provide for
estimated costs that may be incurred to remedy deficiencies of quality or
performance of our products at the time of revenue recognition. Most of our
products have a one year warranty, although a majority of our endoscope
reprocessing equipment in the United States may carry a warranty period of up
to fifteen months. We record provisions for product warranties as a component
of cost of sales based upon an estimate of the amounts necessary to settle
existing and future claims on products sold.  The
historical relationship of warranty costs to products sold is the primary basis
for the estimate. A significant increase in third party service repair rates,
the cost and availability of parts or the frequency of claims could have a
material adverse impact on our results for the period or periods in which such
claims or additional costs materialize. Management reviews its warranty
exposure periodically and believes that the warranty reserves are adequate;
however, actual claims incurred could differ from original estimates, requiring
adjustments to the reserves.   

    Stock-Based Compensation    

  On August 1, 2005,
we adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method for the
transition. Under the modified prospective method, stock compensation expense
will be recognized for any option grant or stock award granted on or after
August 1, 2005, as well as the unvested portion of stock options granted prior
to August 1, 2005, based upon the award s fair value. For fiscal 2005 and
earlier periods, we have accounted for stock options using the intrinsic value
method under which stock compensation expense is not recognized because we
granted stock options with exercise prices equal to the market value of the
shares at the date of grant.  

  Most of our stock
options are subject to graded vesting in which portions of the option award
vest at different times during the vesting period, as opposed to awards that
vest at the end of the vesting period. We recognize compensation expense for
options subject to graded vesting using the straight-line basis, reduced by
estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant and
revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from
those estimates. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience.  

  The stock-based
compensation expense recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements may not
be representative of the effect of stock-based compensation expense in future
periods due to the level of options issued in past years (which level may not
be similar in the future), assumptions used in determining fair value, and
estimated forfeitures. We estimate the fair value of each option   

57     

grant on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. The determination of fair
value using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as
assumptions regarding a number of subjective variables. These variables include,
but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of
the option grant (which is determined by using the historical closing prices of
our Common Stock), the expected dividend yield (which is expected to be 0%),
and the expected option life (which is based on historical exercise behavior).
If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of
SFAS 123R in future periods, the compensation expense that we would record
under SFAS 123R may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the
current period.  

    Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities    

  We recognize costs
associated with exit or disposal activities, such as costs to terminate a
contract, the exit or disposal of a business, or the early termination of a
leased property, by recognizing the liability at fair value when incurred,
except for certain one-time termination benefits, such as severance costs, for
which the period of recognition begins when a severance plan is communicated to
employees.  

  Inherent in the
calculation of liabilities relating to exit and disposal activities are
significant management judgments and estimates, including estimates of
termination costs, employee attrition, and the interest rate used to discount
certain expected net cash payments. Such judgments and estimates are reviewed
by us on a regular basis. The cumulative effect of a change to a liability
resulting from a revision to either timing or the amount of estimated cash
flows is recognized by us as an adjustment to the liability in the period of
the change.  

  Although we have
historically recorded minimal charges associated with exit or disposal
activities, we recorded approximately $1,329,000 of severance costs in income
from discontinued operations in fiscal 2006 related to the sale of
substantially all of Carsen s assets.  

    Legal
Proceedings    

  In the normal
course of business, we are subject to pending and threatened legal actions. We
record legal fees and other expenses related to litigation as incurred.
Additionally, we assess, in consultation with our counsel, the need to record a
liability for litigation and contingencies on a case by case basis. Amounts are
accrued when we, in consultation with counsel, determine that a liability has
been incurred and an amount of anticipated exposure can be reasonably
estimated.  

     Income  Taxes    

  We recognize
deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities also include items recorded in conjunction
with the purchase accounting for business acquisitions. We regularly review our
deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance, if
necessary, based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income,
and the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences.
Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than
not that the recorded deferred tax assets will be realized. Additionally, deferred
tax liabilities are regularly reviewed to confirm that such amounts are
appropriately stated. Such a review considers known future changes in various
effective tax   

58     

rates, principally in the
United States. If the United States effective tax rate were to change in the
future, our items of deferred tax could be materially affected. All of such
evaluations require significant management judgments.  

  It is our policy
to establish reserves for exposures as a result of an examination by tax
authorities. We establish the reserves based primarily upon management s
assessment of exposure associated with acquired companies and permanent tax
differences. The tax reserves are analyzed periodically (at least annually) and
adjustments are made, as events occur to warrant adjustment to the reserves.
The majority of our income tax reserves originated from acquisitions.  

    Business
Combinations    

  Acquisitions
require significant estimates and judgments related to the fair value of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed.  

  Certain
liabilities are subjective in nature. We reflect such liabilities based upon
the most recent information available. In conjunction with our acquisitions,
such subjective liabilities principally include certain income tax and sales
and use tax exposures, including tax liabilities related to our foreign
subsidiaries. The ultimate settlement of such liabilities may be for amounts
which are different from the amounts recorded.  

    Other
Matters    

  We do not have any
off balance sheet financial arrangements.  

   Item 7A.                       QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK .  

   Foreign Currency and Market Risk   

  A portion of our
products are imported from the Far East and Western Europe. All of our
operating segments sell a portion of their products outside of the United
States and our Netherlands subsidiary sells a portion of its products outside
of the European Union. Consequently, our business could be materially affected
by the imposition of trade barriers, fluctuations in the rates of exchange of
various currencies, tariff increases and import and export restrictions,
affecting the United States, Canada and the Netherlands.  

  A portion of our
Canadian subsidiaries  inventories (which are reported in the Water
Purification and Filtration and Specialty Packaging segments) are purchased in
the United States and a significant amount of their sales are to customers in
the United States. The businesses of our Canadian subsidiaries could be
materially and adversely affected by the imposition of trade barriers,
fluctuations in the rate of currency exchange, tariff increases and import and
export restrictions between the United States and Canada. Additionally, the
financial statements of our Canadian subsidiaries are translated using the
accounting policies described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. Fluctuations in the rates of currency exchange between the United
States and Canada had an overall positive impact in fiscal 2006 compared with
fiscal 2005 (including our discontinued operations), and in fiscal 2005
compared with fiscal 2004, upon our results of operations and stockholders 
equity, as described in our MD A. With respect to our continuing   

59     

operations, there was an
overall adverse impact for the above periods.  

   C hanges in the value of the euro against the United States
dollar affect our results of operations because a portion of the net assets of
Our Netherlands subsidiary (which are reported in our Dialysis and Endoscope
Reprocessing segments) are denominated and ultimately settled in United States dollars
but must be converted into its functional euro currency. Additionally,
financial statements of the Netherlands subsidiary are translated using the
accounting policies described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. Fluctuations in the rates of currency exchange between the Euro and
the United States dollar had an overall positive impact for fiscal 2006
compared with fiscal 2005, and an overall adverse effect in fiscal 2005
compared with fiscal 2004, upon our results of operations as described in our
MD A, and had a positive impact upon stockholders  equity.  

  In order to hedge
against the impact of fluctuations in the value of the euro relative to the
United States dollar, we enter into short-term contracts to purchase euros
forward, which contracts are generally one month in duration. These short-term
contracts are designated as fair value hedge instruments. Due to the
insignificant net amount of assets and liabilities of Our Netherlands
subsidiary denominated in United States dollars at July 31, 2006, we were not
entered into any foreign currency forward contracts. However, under our credit
facilities, such contracts to purchase euros may not exceed $12,000,000 in an
aggregate notional amount at any time. During fiscal 2006, such forward
contracts were effective in offsetting most of the impact of the weakening of
the euro on our results of operations.  

  The functional
currency of Minntech s Japan subsidiary is the Japanese yen. Changes in the
value of the Japanese yen relative to the United States dollar during fiscal
2006 and 2005 did not have a significant impact upon either our results of
operations or the translation of the balance sheet, primarily due to the fact
that our Japanese subsidiary accounts for a relatively small portion of consolidated
net sales, net income and net assets.  

   Interest Rate Market Risk   

  We have a United
States credit facility for which the interest rate on outstanding borrowings is
variable. Therefore, interest expense is principally affected by the general
level of interest rates in the United States.  

   Market Risk Sensitive
Transactions   

  We are exposed to
market risks arising principally from adverse changes in interest rates and
foreign currency.  

  With respect to
interest rate risk, our outstanding debt is under our United States credit
facilities, described elsewhere in Liquidity and Capital Resources. Such credit
facilities consist of outstanding debt with fixed repayment amounts at
prevailing market rates of interest, principally for LIBOR contracts.
Therefore, our market risk with respect to such debt is the increase in
interest expense which would result from higher interest rates associated with
LIBOR. Such outstanding debt under our United States credit facilities was
$38,000,000 and $15,750,000 at July 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and the
average outstanding balance during fiscal 2006 and 2005 was approximately
$63,596,000 and $19,577,000, respectively. A 100 basis-point increase in
average   

60     

LIBOR interest rates
would have resulted in incremental interest expense of approximately $636,000
and $196,000 during fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. Presently, we do not
utilize any interest rate derivatives. Our other long-term liabilities would
not be materially affected by an increase in interest rates. We also maintained
a significant cash balance of $29,898,000 at July 31, 2006 which is invested in
low risk cash equivalents at prevailing market rates of interest. An increase
in interest rates would generate additional interest income for us which would
partially offset the adverse impact of the additional interest expense.  

  With respect to
foreign currency exchange rates, we are principally impacted by changes in the
Canadian dollar and the Euro as these currencies relate to the United States
dollar. In order to minimize the potential adverse impact of unfavorable
movements in foreign currencies, we typically utilize foreign currency forward
contracts. We use a sensitivity analysis to assess the market risk associated
with our foreign currency transactions. Market risk is defined here as the
potential change in fair value resulting from an adverse movement in foreign
currency exchange rates.  

  Our
Canadian subsidiaries and Netherlands subsidiary have net assets in currencies
(principally United States dollars) other than their functional Canadian and
Euro currency which must be converted into its functional currency, thereby
giving rise to realized foreign exchange gains and losses. Therefore, our
Canadian subsidiaries and Netherlands subsidiary is exposed to risk if the
value of the Canadian dollar or Euro appreciates relative to the United States
dollar. However, an insignificant amount of such net assets existed at July 31,
2006 and therefore a 10% increase in the Canadian dollar or Euro relative to
the United States dollar would result in an insignificant realized loss.
Accordingly, we did not utilize foreign currency forward contracts at July 31,
2006. Additionally, since our foreign subsidiaries limit the use of foreign
currency forward contracts to the hedging of actual net assets, a loss in fair
value for such instruments generally would be substantially offset by a gain in
the value of the underlying net assets.  

  In addition to the
above, adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the
translation of our financial statements (adverse changes would be caused by
depreciation of either the Canadian dollar or the Euro relative to the United
States dollar assuming that such operations are profitable). For fiscal 2006
and 2005, a uniform 10% adverse movement in foreign currency rates would have
resulted in realized losses (after tax) of approximately $231,000 and $11,000,
respectively, due to the translation of the results of operations of foreign
subsidiaries. Furthermore, a 10% adverse movement in foreign currency rates
could result in an unrealized loss of $3,212,000 and $3,216,000 at July 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively, on our net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
However, since we view these investments as long-term, we would not expect such
a loss to be realized in the near term.  

   Item 8.                          FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA .  

  See Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements, which is Item 15(a), and the Consolidated
Financial Statements and schedule included in this Report.  

   Item
9.                                                                 CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  . 

  Not applicable.  

61  

Item 9A.                       CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES  . 

  We
maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) designed to ensure that information required
to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC and that such
information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to
allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.  

   Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting   

  The management of Cantel Medical Corp. is responsible
for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting for the Company. The Company s internal control over financial
reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting
principles. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that:  

  (i)                                        pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company, 

  (ii)                                     provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the Company, and 

  (iii)                                  provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements. 

  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in condition, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies and procedures included in such controls may
deteriorate.  

  We, under the
supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our
Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal controls over financial reporting based on the framework and criteria
established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework,  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer each
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as
of July 31, 2006. However, the fiscal 2006 acquisitions of Crosstex and Fluid
Solutions were excluded from that evaluation since the acquisitions occurred
during fiscal 2006 and were not required to be included.  

  Our assessment of
the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as of July
31, 2006, has been audited by Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report which is included
below.  

62     

Changes in Internal Control   

  We have evaluated
our internal controls over financial reporting and determined that no changes
occurred during the period covered by this Report that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting, except as described below.  

  On August 1, 2005,
which was the first day of fiscal 2006, we acquired Crosstex, as more fully
described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in the
MD A. In fiscal 2006, Crosstex represented a material portion of our sales,
net income and net assets. In conjunction with the due diligence performed by
us in connection with this acquisition, we determined that the overall internal
control environment of Crosstex contained a number of significant deficiencies,
some of which rise to the level of material weaknesses. Some of the more
significant internal control weaknesses included the lack of segregation of
duties, the need to hire a principal financial and accounting officer, numerous
limitations with respect to the management information systems, lack of
application of GAAP in certain aspects of financial reporting, and substandard
monthly closing procedures.  

  We believe we have
remedied the majority of the more significant internal control weaknesses at
Crosstex. In order to achieve these objectives, we took a number of steps
including hiring, during the period covered by this report, a principal
financial and accounting officer at Crosstex in October 2005, formalizing the
monthly closing procedures and timing, and ensuring consistent and complete
application of GAAP. Additionally, we have implemented a number of additional internal
control procedures designed to ensure the completeness and accuracy of reported
financial information, including periodic physical inventories, monthly account
analyses and quarter-end field reviews by representatives of Cantel s financial
and accounting staff. We are relying extensively on detect controls with
respect to reported month-end financial information until such time that
appropriate prevent controls can be implemented. We have evaluated the
management information systems at Crosstex and have selected a replacement of
the existing system. The implementation process of this new system has recently
commenced and is expected to be completed late in fiscal 2007. Since the
acquisition, significant improvements have already been made in the overall
Crosstex internal control environment and will continue to be made throughout
fiscal 2007. The most significant changes anticipated for fiscal 2007 are the
implementation of a new management information system as discussed above and
continued strengthening of the accounting and financial staff at Crosstex by
hiring additional personnel. However, no assurances can be given that the
implementation of the new management information system will be completed
during fiscal 2007 and that such related controls will be operating effectively
by July 31, 2007.  

  During February
2006, we completed remediation efforts related to improving segregation of
duties and access controls in the general information technology processes at
our Minntech subsidiary.  

63     

Attestation Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm   

   Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

  The Board of Directors
and Stockholders 
Cantel Medical Corp.  

  We have audited management s assessment,
included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting, that Cantel Medical Corp. maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Cantel
Medical Corp. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the
company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  

  We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  A company s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.  

  Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  As indicated in
the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting, management s assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls
of Crosstex or Fluid Solutions Incorporated, which were acquired on
August 1, 2005 and May 1, 2006, respectively, which are included in
the 2006 consolidated financial statements of Cantel Medical Corp. and which
constituted 29% of consolidated net sales of continuing operations for the year
ended July 31, 2006 and 26% of consolidated total assets as of
July 31, 2006, excluding $38.8 million of cost in excess of net
assets acquired which was recorded as a result of the Crosstex and Fluid
Solutions acquisitions. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
of Cantel Medical Corp. also did not include an evaluation of the internal
control over financial reporting of Crosstex or Fluid Solutions.  

  In our opinion,
management s assessment that Cantel Medical Corp. maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all
material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, Cantel
Medical Corp maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on   the
COSO   

64     

criteria .   

  We also have
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Cantel
Medical Corp. as of July 31, 2006 and 2005 and the related consolidated
statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity and comprehensive income
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ending July 31, 2006 of
Cantel Medical Corp. and our report dated October 12, 2006 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.  

Item 9B.                       OTHER
INFORMATION  . 

  None.  

65     

PART III    

   Item 10.                       DIRECTORS AND
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT .  

  Incorporated by
reference to the Registrant s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act in connection
with the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Registrant, except for the
following:  

  We have adopted a
Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and
other officers and management personnel that is posted on our website, www.cantelmedical.com.
We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement regarding any amendment to, or
a waiver of, a provision of the Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer and other officers and management personnel by posting
such information on our website.  

   Item 11.                       EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION .  

  Incorporated by
reference to the Registrant s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act in connection
with the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Registrant.  

   Item
12.                                                          SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS .  

  Incorporated by reference to the Registrant s
definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A
promulgated under the Exchange Act in connection with the 2006 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders of the Registrant.  

   Item 13.                       CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  . 

  Incorporated by
reference to the Registrant s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act in connection
with the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Registrant.  

   Item 14.                       PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  . 

  Incorporated by
reference to the Registrant s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act in connection
with the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Registrant.  

66     

PART
IV    

   Item
15.       EXHIBITS
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES .  

  (a)              The
following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006. 

  1.               Consolidated
Financial Statements : 

  (i)                                        Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

  (ii)                                     Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of July 31, 2006 and 2005. 

  (iii)                                  Consolidated
Statements of Income for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 

  (iv)                                 Consolidated
Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income for the
years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 

  (v)                                    Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 

  (vi)                                 Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

  2.               Consolidated
Financial Statement Schedules : 

  (i)                                        Schedule
II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended July 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004. 

  All other
financial statement schedules are omitted since they are not required, not
applicable, or the information has been included in the Consolidated Financial
Statements or Notes thereto.  

  3.                                           Exhibits : 

  2(a) - Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of August 1,
2005 among Registrant, Crosstex International, Inc. and Arlene Fisher.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Registrant s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on August 5, 2005 [the  August 5, 2005 8-K ].)  

  2(b) - Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of August 1,
2005 among Registrant, Crosstex International, Inc. and Frank Richard Orofino,
Jr. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to Registrant s August 5, 2005
8-K.)  

  2(c) - Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of August 1,
2005 among Registrant, Crosstex International, Inc. and Richard Allen Orofino.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.3 to Registrant s August 5, 2005 8-K.)  

67     

2(d)
- - Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of August 1, 2005 among Registrant, Crosstex
International, Inc. and Gary Steinberg. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
2.4 to Registrant s August 5, 2005 8-K.)  

  2(e)
- - Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of August 1, 2005 among Registrant,
Crosstex International, Inc. and Mitchell Steinberg. (Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 2.5 to Registrant s August 5, 2005 8-K.)  

  3(a)
- - Registrant s Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated July 20, 1978.
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to Registrant s 1981 Annual
Report on Form 10-K.)  

  3(b)
- - Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, filed
on February 16, 1982. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to
Registrant s 1982 Annual Report on Form 10-K.)  

  3(c)
- - Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, filed
on May 4, 1984. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(c) to Registrant s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 1984.)  

  3(d)
- - Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, filed
on August 19, 1986. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(d) of
Registrant s 1986 Annual Report on Form 10-K.)  

  3(e)
- - Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, filed
on December 12, 1986. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(e) of
Registrant s 1987 Annual Report on Form 10-K [the  1987 10-K ].)  

  3(f)
- - Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, filed
on April 3, 1987. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(f) of
Registrant s 1987 10-K.)  

  3(g)
- - Certificate of Change of Registrant, filed on July 12, 1988. (Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 3(g) of Registrant s 1988 Annual Report on Form
10-K.)  

  3(h)
- - Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant filed
on April 17, 1989. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(h) to
Registrant s 1989 Annual Report on Form 10-K.)  

  3(i)
  Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, filed
on May 10, 1999. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to
Registrant s 2000 Annual Report on Form 10-K [the  2000 10-K ].)  

  3(j)
  Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, filed
on April 5, 2000. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(j) to
Registrant s 2000 10-K.)  

  3(k)
  Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, filed
on September 6, 2001. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(k) to
Registrant s 2001 Annual Report on Form 10-K.)  

68     

3(l)
  Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, filed
on June 7, 2002. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(l) to
Registrant s 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K [the  2002 10-K ].)  

  3(m)
  Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, filed
on December 22, 2005.  

  3(n)
- - Registrant s By-Laws adopted April 24, 2002. (Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 3(m) to Registrant s 2002 10-K.)  

  10(a)
- - Registrant s 1991 Directors  Stock Option Plan, as amended. (Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant s 1991 Annual Report on Form
10-K [the  1991 10-K ].)  

  10(b)
- - Form of Stock Option Agreement under the Registrant s 1991 Directors  Stock
Option Plan. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to Registrant s
1991 10-K.)  

  10(c)
- - Registrant s 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated herein by
reference to Annex B to Registrant s 2004 Definitive Proxy Statement on
Schedule 14A.)  

  10(d)
- - Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement under Registrant s 1997 Employee
Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to
Registrant s 1997 Annual Report on Form 10-K.)  

  10(e)
- - Registrant s 1998 Directors  Stock Option Plan, as amended. (Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10(ee) to Registrant s  2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K [the  2005
10-K].)  

  10(f)
- - Form of Quarterly Stock Option Agreement under the Registrant s 1998
Directors  Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10(hh) to Registrant s 2000 10-K.)  

  10(g)
- - Form of Annual Stock Option Agreement under the Registrant s 1998 Directors 
Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) to
Registrant s 2000 10-K.)  

  10(h)
- - Stock Option Agreement, dated as of October 17, 1996, between the Registrant
and Charles M. Diker. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(v) to
Registrant s 1996 Annual Report on Form 10-K.)  

  10(i)
- - Stock Option Agreement, dated as of October 16, 1997, between the Registrant
and Charles M. Diker. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(x) to
Registrant s 1998 Annual Report on Form 10-K [the  1998 10-K ].)  

  10(j)
- - Stock Option Agreement, dated as of October 30, 1998, between the Registrant
and Charles M. Diker. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(ff) to
Registrant s 1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K.)  

69     

10(k)
- - Form of Non-Plan Stock Option Agreement between the Registrant and Darwin C.
Dornbush. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(y) to Registrant s
1998 10-K.)  

  10(l)
- - Stock Option Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2002, between the Registrant
and Seth R. Segel (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant s
October 31, 2002 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.)  

  10(m)
- - Minntech Emeritus Director Consulting Plan. (Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10 to Minntech s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 1995.)  

  10(n)
- - Amendment to Emeritus Director Consulting Plan effective September 26, 1996
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Minntech s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996.)  

  10(o)
- - Minntech Amended and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
effective April 1, 2000 (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to
Minntech s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2000.)  

  10(p)
- - Employment Agreement, dated as of August 30, 2004, between the Registrant and
Andrew A. Krakauer. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Registrant s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 30, 2004.)  

  10(q)
- - Employment Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2004, between the Registrant
and Craig A. Sheldon. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 1 to
Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 21, 2005 [the  January
21, 2005 8-K ].)  

  10(r)
- - Employment Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2004, between the Registrant
and Seth R. Segel. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant s
January 21, 2005 8-K.)  

  10(s)
- - Employment Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2004, between the Registrant
and Steven C. Anaya. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to Registrant s
January 21, 2005 8-K.)  

  10(t)
- - Employment Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2005, between the Registrant and
Eric W. Nodiff. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 1 to Registrant s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 7, 2005.)  

  10(u)
- - Employment Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2004, between Minntech
Corporation and Roy K. Malkin. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4
to Registrant s January 21, 2005 8-K.)  

  10(v)
- - Employment Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2005, between the Registrant and
James P. Reilly. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant s
August 5, 2005 8-K.)  

70     

10(w)
- - Employment Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2005, between Crosstex
International, Inc. and Richard Allen Orofino. (Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10(x) to Registrant s 
2005 10-K.)  

  10(x)
- - Agreement, dated as of July 25, 2005, among Registrant, Carsen, Olympus
America Inc. and Olympus Surgical   Industrial America, Inc. (Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
July 28, 2005.)  

  10(y)
- -  Agreement, dated as of May 16, 2006
among Registrant, Carsen, Olympus America Inc., Olympus Surgical  
Industrial America, Inc., and Olympus
Canada Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Registrant s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated May 22, 2006 [the  May 2006 8-K ].)  

  10(z)
- - Distributor Agreement between Olympus America Inc. and Minntech Corporation
dated as of August 1, 2003. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to
Registrant s January 31, 2004 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.)  

   10(aa) -  Asset Purchase Agreement dated May
18, 2006 between Carsen and Carsen Medical Corp. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Registrant s May 2006
8-K.)  

  10(bb)
- - Separation, Severance and Consulting Agreement dated May 18, 2006 between
Carsen and William J. Vella.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to Registrant s May 2006 8-K.)  

  10(cc) - Amended
and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of August 1, 2005 among Registrant, Bank
of America N.A., PNC Bank, National Association, and Wells Fargo Bank, National
Association (and Banc of America Securities LLC, as sole lead arranger and sole
book manager). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant s
August 5, 2005 8-K.)  

  21
- - Subsidiaries of Registrant.  

  23
- - Consent of Ernst   Young LLP.  

  31.1
- - Certification of Principal Executive Officer.  

  31.2
- - Certification of Principal Financial Officer.  

  32
- - Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

71     

SIGNATURES  

  Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

CANTEL MEDICAL CORP.  

Date: October
  16, 2006  

By:  

/s/ James P. Reilly  

James P. Reilly, President and Chief  

Executive Officer  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

By:  

/s/ Craig A. Sheldon  

Craig A. Sheldon, Senior Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  

By:  

/s/ Steven C. Anaya   

Steven C. Anaya, Vice President and  

Controller  

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated:  

/s/ Charles M. Diker 

Date:  

October 16, 2006  

Charles M.
  Diker, a Director  

and Chairman of
  the Board  

/s/ Alan J.
  Hirschfield  

Date:  

October 16, 2006  

Alan J.
  Hirschfield, a Director  

and Vice
  Chairman of the Board  

/s/ Robert L.
  Barbanell  

Date:  

October 16, 2006  

Robert L.
  Barbanell, a Director  

/s/ Alan R.
  Batkin  

Date:  

October 16, 2006  

Alan R. Batkin,
  a Director  

/s/ Joseph M.
  Cohen  

Date:  

October 16, 2006  

Joseph M. Cohen,
  a Director  

/s/ Darwin C.
  Dornbush  

Date:  

October 16, 2006  

Darwin C.
  Dornbush, a Director  

/s/ Spencer
  Foreman, M.D.  

Date:  

October 16, 2006  

Spencer Foreman,
  M.D., a Director  

/s/ Elizabeth McCaughey,
  Ph.D.  

Date:  

October 16, 2006  

Elizabeth
  McCaughey, Ph.D., a Director  

/s/ James P.
  Reilly  

Date:  

October 16, 2006  

James P. Reilly,
  a Director and President  

/s/ Bruce Slovin  

Date:  

October 16, 2006  

Bruce Slovin, a
  Director  

72  

CANTEL MEDICAL CORP.   

   CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

   JULY 31, 2006   

CONTENTS   

Report of Independent
  Registered Public Accounting Firm   

Financial
  Statements  

Consolidated Balance Sheets   

Consolidated Statements of Income   

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders 
  Equity and Comprehensive Income   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm     

  The Board of Directors
and Stockholders 
Cantel Medical Corp.  

  We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cantel Medical Corp. (and
subsidiaries) as of July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated
statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity and comprehensive income,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2006.
Our audits also included the financial statement schedule included in the Index
at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility
of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Cantel Medical Corp. (and
subsidiaries) at July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
July 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.  

  As discussed in Note 2 to
the financial statements, effective August 1, 2005, the Company changed its
method of accounting for stock-based compensation.  

  We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the effectiveness of Cantel Medical Corp. s internal control
over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on criteria established in
Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated October 12, 2006
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  

1     

CANTEL
MEDICAL CORP. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands, Except Share Data)   

See accompanying
notes.  

2     

CANTEL MEDICAL CORP. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME   
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)   

See accompanying
notes.  

3     

CANTEL MEDICAL CORP. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 
AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   
(Dollar amounts in Thousands, Except Share Data) 
Years Ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004   

See
accompanying notes.  

4     

CANTEL MEDICAL CORP. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands)   

See accompanying
notes.  

5     

CANTEL
MEDICAL CORP.   

   NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
Years Ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004   

   1.                  Business Description  

  Cantel
Medical Corp. ( Cantel ) is a leading provider of infection prevention and
control products in the healthcare market, specializing in the
following operating segments:  

            Dialysis:
Medical device reprocessing systems, sterilants/disinfectants, dialysate
concentrates and other supplies for renal dialysis. 

            Dental:
Single-use, infection control products used principally in the
dental market including face masks, towels and bibs, tray covers, saliva
ejectors, germicidal wipes, plastic cups, sterilization pouches and
disinfectants. 

            Endoscope
Reprocessing: Medical device reprocessing systems and sterilants/disinfectants
for endoscopy. 

            Water
Purification and Filtration: Water purification equipment and services,
filtration and separation products, and disinfectants for the medical,
pharmaceutical, biotech and other industrial markets. 

            Therapeutic
Filtration: Hollow fiber membrane filtration and separation technologies for
medical applications. (Included in All Other reporting segment) 

            Specialty
Packaging: Specialty packaging and thermal control products, as well as related
compliance training, for the transport of infectious and biological specimens
and thermally sensitive pharmaceutical, medical and other products. (Included
in All Other reporting segment) 

  Most of our equipment,
consumables and supplies are used to help prevent the occurrence or spread of
infections.  

  Cantel
had six operating companies during fiscal 2006 due to the August 1, 2005
acquisition of Crosstex International, Inc. ( Crosstex ). Minntech Corporation
( Minntech ), Carsen Group Inc. ( Carsen ), Mar Cor Purification, Inc.
(formerly known as Mar Cor Services, Inc.)( Mar Cor ), Saf-T-Pak, Inc. ( Saf-T-Pak )
and Crosstex are wholly-owned operating subsidiaries of Cantel. Biolab
Equipment Ltd. ( Biolab ) is a wholly-owned operating subsidiary of Carsen. In
addition, Minntech has two foreign subsidiaries, Minntech B.V. and Minntech
Japan K.K., which serve as Minntech s bases in Europe and the Asia/Pacific
markets, respectively.  

   On
July 31 , 2006, Carsen closed the sale of substantially all of its assets
to Olympus America Inc. and certain of its affiliates (collectively,  Olympus )
under an Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of May 16, 2006 among Carsen, Cantel
and Olympus, as more fully described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. As a result of the foregoing transaction, Carsen no longer has any
remaining product lines or active business operations. The businesses of
Carsen, previously reported in the Endoscopy and Surgical, Endoscope
Reprocessing and All Other reporting segments, are reflected as a discontinued
operation in our Consolidated Financial Statements and have been excluded from
segment results for all periods presented. Net sales, cost of sales, operating
expenses, interest expense and income taxes attributable to Carsen s operations
have been aggregated into a   

6     

single line, income from
discontinued operations, net of tax, on the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Additionally, the assets and liabilities related to the discontinued operations
have been segregated from continuing operations in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets.  

  On
August 1, 2005, Cantel acquired Crosstex, a privately held company
headquartered in Hauppauge, New York, as more fully described in Note 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. Crosstex is a leading manufacturer and
reseller of single-use, infection control products used principally in the
dental market. For fiscal 2006, the Crosstex business is reported in a new
reporting segment known as Dental. Because the acquisition of Crosstex was
consummated on August 1, 2005, its results of operations are not included in
fiscal 2005 and 2004. However, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for pro forma information which assumes Crosstex was included in our
results of operations as of the beginning of fiscal 2005.  

  In January 2005, we issued 5,095,000 additional shares
in connection with a three-for-two stock split. This 50% stock dividend was
paid on January 12, 2005 to stockholders of record on January 5, 2005. The
effect of the stock split has been recognized retroactively throughout this
report.  

  Throughout this document,
references to  Cantel,   us,   we,   our,  and the  Company  are references to
Cantel Medical Corp. and its subsidiaries, except where the context makes it
clear the reference is to Cantel itself and not its subsidiaries.  

   2.                  Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies  

  The
following is a summary of our significant accounting policies used to prepare
our Consolidated Financial Statements. Such policies are applicable for all of
our operating segments including Carsen s operations which became discontinued
in fiscal 2006 as more fully described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

    Principles of Consolidation    

  The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cantel and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.  

    Revenue Recognition    

  Revenue on product sales
(excluding certain sales of endoscope reprocessing equipment in the United
States) is recognized as products are shipped to customers and title passes.
The passing of title is determined based upon the FOB terms specified for each
shipment. With respect to dialysis, therapeutic, specialty packaging and a
portion of endoscope reprocessing products, shipment terms are generally FOB
origin for common carrier and FOB destination when our distribution fleet is
utilized (except for one large customer in dialysis whereby all products are
shipped FOB destination). With respect to endoscopy and surgical, water
purification and filtration, scientific products and dental products, shipment
terms may be either FOB origin or destination. Customer acceptance for the
majority of our product sales occurs at the time of delivery. In certain
instances, primarily with respect to some of our water purification and
filtration equipment and an insignificant amount of our sales of dialysis
equipment and scientific products, post-delivery obligations such as
installation, in-servicing or training are contractually specified; in such
instances, revenue recognition is deferred until all of such conditions have
been substantially fulfilled such that the products are deemed functional by
the end-user. With respect to a portion of   

7     

endoscopy and surgical,
water purification and filtration and scientific product sales, equipment is
sold as part of a system for which the equipment is functionally interdependent
or the customer s purchase order specifies  ship-complete  as a condition of
delivery; revenue recognition on such sales is deferred until all equipment has
been delivered.  

  With respect to a portion
of endoscopy and surgical sales (all of which is part of the discontinued
operations), we enter into arrangements whereby revenue is immediately
recognized upon the transfer of equipment to customers who pay on a cost per
procedure basis, subject to minimum monthly payments. Such arrangements are
non-cancelable by the customer and provide for a bargain purchase option by the
customer at the conclusion of the term. All direct costs related to these
transactions are recorded at the time of revenue recognition. Some of such
transactions also provide for future servicing of the equipment, which service
revenue component is deferred and recognized over the period that such services
are provided. With respect to these multiple element arrangements, revenue is
allocated to the equipment and service components based upon vendor specific
objective evidence which principally includes comparable historical
transactions of similar equipment and service sold as stand-alone components.  

  Sales of a majority of
our endoscope reprocessing equipment to a third party distributor in the United
States are recognized on a bill and hold basis. Such sales satisfy each of the
following criteria: (i) the risks of ownership have passed to the third party
distributor; (ii) the third party distributor must provide a written purchase
order committing to the purchase of specified units; (iii) the bill and hold
arrangement was specifically requested by the third party distributor for the
purpose of minimizing the impact of multiple shipments of the units; (iv) the
third party distributor provides specific instructions for shipment to customers,
and completed units held by us for the third party distributor generally do not
exceed three months of anticipated shipments; (v) we have no further
performance obligations with respect to such units; (vi) completed units are
invoiced to the third party distributor with 30 day payment terms and such
receivables are generally satisfied within such terms; and (vii) completed
units are ready for shipment and segregated in a designated section of our
warehouse reserved only for the third party distributor. Due to the termination
of the Minntech/Olympus distribution agreement on August 1, 2006, future sales
will no longer be made on a bill and hold basis.  

  Revenue on service sales
is recognized when repairs are completed at the customer s location or when repairs
are completed at our facilities and the products are shipped to customers. All
shipping and handling fees invoiced to customers, such as freight, are recorded
as revenue (and related costs are included within cost of sales) at the time
the sale is recognized.  

  None of our sales,
including the bill and hold sales arrangement, contain right-of-return
provisions, and customer claims for credit or return due to damage, defect,
shortage or other reason must be pre-approved by us before credit is issued or
such product is accepted for return. No cash discounts for early payment are
offered except with respect to a small portion of our sales of dialysis and
dental products and certain prepaid packaging products. We do not offer price
protection, although advance pricing contracts or required notice periods prior
to implementation of price increases exist for certain customers with respect
to many of our products. With respect to certain of our dialysis, endoscope
reprocessing and dental customers, volume rebates allowances are provided; such
volume rebates allowances are provided for as a reduction of sales at the time
of revenue recognition and amounted to $1,216,000, $749,000 and $1,035,000 in
fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Included in the volume rebates for
fiscal 2006 is approximately $1,157,000 in volume rebates as a result of the
addition of dental products, offset by cancellation during the three months   

8     

ended October 31, 2005 of
a volume rebate program resulting from consolidation in the dialysis industry.
Such allowances are determined based on estimated projections of sales volume
for the entire rebate agreement periods. If it becomes known that sales volume
to customers will deviate from original projections, the volume rebate
provisions originally established would be adjusted accordingly.  

  The majority of our
dialysis products are sold to end-users; the majority of therapeutic filtration
products, endoscope reprocessing products and services, and dental products are
sold to third party distributors; the majority of endoscopy and surgical
products and services are sold directly to hospitals; the majority of water
purification and filtration products and services are sold directly and through
third-party distributors to hospitals, dialysis clinics, pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies and other end-users; scientific products and services
are sold to hospitals, laboratories and other end-users; and specialty
packaging products are sold to third-party distributors, medical research
companies, laboratories, pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, government
agencies and other end-users. Sales to all of these customers follow our
revenue recognition policies. Due to the direct distribution of our endoscope
reprocessing products in the United States commencing in fiscal 2007, the
majority of our endoscope reprocessing products and services will be sold
directly to hospitals and other end-users.  

    Translation of Foreign Currency
Financial Statements    

  Assets
and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into United States
dollars at year-end exchange rates; sales and expenses are translated using
average exchange rates during the year. The cumulative effect of the
translation of the accounts of the foreign subsidiaries is presented as a component
of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. Foreign exchange gains and
losses related to the purchase of inventories are included in cost of sales.
Foreign exchange gains and losses related to the conversion of foreign assets
and liabilities into foreign subsidiaries  functional currencies are included
in general and administrative expenses.  

    Cash and Cash Equivalents    

  We
consider all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less
when purchased to be cash equivalents.  

    Accounts Receivable and Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts    

  Accounts
receivable consist of amounts due to us from normal business activities.
Allowances for doubtful accounts are reserves for the estimated loss from the
inability of customers to make required payments. We use historical experience
as well as current market information in determining the estimate. While actual
losses have historically been within management s expectations and provisions
established, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate,
resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional
allowances may be required. Alternatively, if certain customers paid their
delinquent receivables, reductions in allowances may be required.  

9  

Inventories    

  Inventories
consist of products which are sold in the ordinary course of our business and
are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. In assessing
the value of inventories, we must make estimates and judgments regarding reserves
required for product obsolescence, aging of inventories and other issues
potentially affecting the saleable condition of products. In performing such
evaluations, we use historical experience as well as current market
information.  

    Property and
Equipment    

  Property
and equipment are stated at cost. Additions and improvements are capitalized,
while maintenance and repair costs are expensed. When assets are retired or
otherwise disposed, the cost and related accumulated depreciation or
amortization is removed from the respective accounts and any resulting gain or
loss is included in income. Depreciation and amortization is provided on either
the straight-line method or, for certain furniture and equipment, the declining
balance method, over the estimated useful lives of the assets which generally
range from 2-15 years for furniture and equipment, 5-32 years for buildings and
improvements and the life of the lease for leasehold improvements. Excluding
our discontinued operations, depreciation and amortization expense related to
property and equipment for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $4,570,000,
$2,807,000 and $2,711,000, respectively. Fiscal 2006 includes depreciation and
amortization expense attributable to our Dental segment of approximately
$1,726,000.  

    Goodwill and
Intangible Assets    

  Certain of our identifiable intangible assets, including customer
relationships, brand names, technology, non-compete agreements and patents, are
amortized on the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives which
range from 3 to 20 years. Additionally, we have recorded goodwill and
trademarks and trade names, all of which have indefinite useful lives and are
therefore not amortized. All of our intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, and goodwill and intangible
assets with indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment at least annually .  Our management is primarily responsible
for determining if impairment exists and considers a number of factors,
including third-party valuations, when making these determinations. In
performing a review for goodwill impairment, management uses a two-step process
that begins with an estimation of the fair value of the related operating
segments. The first step is a review for potential impairment, and the second
step measures the amount of impairment, if any. In performing our annual review
for indefinite lived intangibles, management compares the current fair value of
such assets to their carrying values. With respect to amortizable intangible
assets when impairment indicators are present, management would determine
whether non-discounted cash flows would be sufficient to recover the carrying
value of the assets; if not, the carrying value of the assets would be adjusted
to their fair value. On July 31, 2006, management concluded that none of our
intangible assets or goodwill was impaired. While the results of these annual
reviews have historically not indicated impairment, impairment reviews are
highly dependent on management s projections of our future operating results
which management believes to be reasonable.  

10     

Long-lived
assets    

  We evaluate the carrying
value of long-lived assets including property, equipment and other assets
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value
may not be recoverable. An assessment is made to determine if the sum of the
expected future non-discounted cash flows from the use of the assets and
eventual disposition is less than the carrying value. If the sum of the
expected non-discounted cash flows is less than the carrying value, an
impairment loss is recognized based on fair value. With few exceptions, our
historical assessments of our long-lived assets have not differed significantly
from the actual amounts realized. However, the determination of fair value
requires us to make certain assumptions and estimates and is highly subjective,
and accordingly, actual amounts realized may differ significantly from our
estimate.  

    Other Assets    

  Debt
issuance costs associated with the credit facilities are amortized to interest
expense over the life of the credit facilities. In conjunction with the amended
and restated credit facilities dated August 1, 2005, as more fully described in
Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we incurred debt issuance
costs of approximately $1,426,000, of which $160,000 of third-party costs was
recorded in general and administrative expenses during the three months ended
October 31, 2005 in accordance with applicable accounting rules. The remaining
$1,266,000 of costs is being amortized over the life of the credit facilities.
As of July 31, 2006 and 2005, such debt issuance costs, net of related
amortization, were included in other assets and amounted to $1,607,000 and
$647,000, respectively.  

    Warranties    

  We provide for estimated costs that may be incurred to remedy
deficiencies of quality or performance of our products at the time of revenue
recognition. Most of our products have a one year warranty, although a majority
of our endoscope reprocessing equipment in the United States may carry a
warranty period of up to fifteen months. We record provisions for product
warranties as a component of cost of sales based upon an estimate of the
amounts necessary to settle existing and future claims on products sold.  The historical relationship of warranty costs to
products sold is the primary basis for the estimate. A significant increase in
third party service repair rates, the cost and availability of parts or the
frequency of claims could have a material adverse impact on our results for the
period or periods in which such claims or additional costs materialize.
Management reviews its warranty exposure periodically and believes that the warranty
reserves are adequate; however, actual claims incurred could differ from
original estimates, requiring adjustments to the reserves.   

    Stock-Based Compensation    

  On August 1, 2005,
we adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method for the transition.
Under the modified prospective method, stock compensation expense will be
recognized for any option grant or stock award granted on or after August 1,
2005, as well as the unvested portion of stock options granted prior to August
1, 2005, based upon the award s fair value. For fiscal 2005 and earlier
periods, we have accounted for stock options using the intrinsic value method
under which stock compensation expense is not recognized because we granted
stock options with exercise prices equal to the market value of the shares at
the date of grant.  

  Most
of our stock options are subject to graded vesting in which portions of the
option award vest at   

11     

different
times during the vesting period, as opposed to awards that vest at the end of
the vesting period. We recognize compensation expense for options subject to
graded vesting using the straight-line basis, reduced by estimated forfeitures.
Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in
subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience.  

  The stock-based
compensation expense recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements may not
be representative of the effect of stock-based compensation expense in future
periods due to the level of options issued in past years (which level may not
be similar in the future), assumptions used in determining fair value, and
estimated forfeitures. We estimate the fair value of each option grant on the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. The determination
of fair value using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as
well as assumptions regarding a number of subjective variables. These variables
include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the
term of the option grant (which is determined by using the historical closing
prices of our Common Stock), the expected dividend yield (which is expected to
be 0%), and the expected option life (which is based on historical exercise
behavior). If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the
application of SFAS 123R in future periods, the compensation expense that we
would record under SFAS 123R may differ significantly from what we have
recorded in the current period.  

   If we had elected to recognize compensation expense prior
to August 1, 2005 based on the fair value of the options granted at the grant
date over the vesting period as prescribed by SFAS  123,  net income and earnings per share for the comparable
periods would have been as follows:   

The pro forma
effect on net income for these years may not be representative of the effect of
stock-based compensation expense in future periods due to the level of options
issued in past years (which level may not be similar in the future),
assumptions used in determining fair value (including the volatility of Cantel
stock), the estimated forfeiture rate (which was approximately 4%) and the
accelerated vesting of certain options in fiscal 2005.  

  In fiscal 2005, we
accelerated the vesting of certain unvested and  out-of-the-money  stock
options previously awarded to certain executive officers and other employees
(67 individuals in total) under our 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan. Such
options had exercise prices greater than $16.85, the   

12     

closing price on
June 24, 2005, the date that our Board of Directors authorized such
acceleration. Options to purchase 759,650 shares of common stock (of which
approximately 577,500 shares are subject to options held by executive officers)
were subject to this acceleration. All other terms and conditions of the
options remain in effect. Options held by non-employee directors were not
included in the acceleration. Because these options had exercise prices in
excess of the market value of Cantel common stock on June 24, 2005, and
therefore were not fully achieving our original objectives of incentive
compensation and employee retention, we expect the acceleration may have a
positive effect on employee morale, retention and perception of option value.
The acceleration eliminated any future compensation expense we would otherwise
recognize in our income statement with respect to these options with the August
1, 2005 implementation of SFAS 123R. The compensation expense, after tax,
related to this acceleration totaled approximately $3,400,000. If such
acceleration did not occur, we would have recognized additional compensation
expense, net of tax, of approximately $1,300,000, $1,300,000, $600,000 and
$200,000 in fiscal 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively,  based on the fair value of the options granted at
grant date over the original vesting period.   

    Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities    

  We recognize costs
associated with exit or disposal activities, such as costs to terminate a
contract, the exit or disposal of a business, or the early termination of a
leased property, by recognizing the liability at fair value when incurred,
except for certain one-time termination benefits, such as severance costs, for
which the period of recognition begins when a severance plan is communicated to
employees.  

  Inherent in the
calculation of liabilities relating to exit and disposal activities are
significant management judgments and estimates, including estimates of
termination costs, employee attrition and the interest rate used to discount
certain expected net cash payments. Such judgments and estimates are reviewed
by us on a regular basis. The cumulative effect of a change to a liability
resulting from a revision to either timing or the amount of estimated cash flows
is recognized by us as an adjustment to the liability in the period of the
change.  

  Although we have
historically recorded minimal charges associated with exit or disposal
activities, we recorded approximately $1,329,000 of severance costs during
fiscal 2006 relating to the sale of substantially all of Carsen s assets. At
July 31, 2006, such amount was included in gain on disposal of discontinued
operations.  

    Legal
Proceedings    

  In the normal course of business, we are subject to pending and
threatened legal actions. We record legal fees and other expenses related to
litigation as incurred. Additionally, we assess, in consultation with our
counsel, the need to record a liability for litigation and contingencies on a
case by case basis. Amounts are accrued when we, in consultation with counsel,
determine that a liability has been incurred and an amount of anticipated
exposure can be reasonably estimated.  

    Earnings Per Common Share    

  Basic
earnings per common share are computed based upon the weighted average number
of common shares outstanding during the year.  

13     

Diluted
earnings per common share are computed based upon the weighted average number
of common shares outstanding during the year plus the dilutive effect of
options using the treasury stock method and the average market price of our
Common Stock for the year.  

    Advertising Costs    

  Our
policy is to expense advertising costs as they are incurred. Advertising costs
charged to expense were $697,000, $267,000 and $170,000 for fiscal 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively. Fiscal 2006 includes expense attributable to our Dental
segment of approximately $338,000.  

     Income  Taxes    

  We
recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the
financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities also include items recorded in conjunction
with the purchase accounting for business acquisitions. We regularly review our
deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance, if
necessary, based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income,
and the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences.
Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than
not that the recorded deferred tax assets will be realized. Additionally,
deferred tax liabilities are regularly reviewed to confirm that such amounts
are appropriately stated. Such a review considers known future changes in
various effective tax rates, principally in the United States. If the United
States effective tax rate were to change in the future, our items of deferred
tax could be materially affected. All of such evaluations require significant
management judgments.  

  It
is our policy to establish reserves for exposures as a result of an examination
by tax authorities. We establish the reserves based primarily upon management s
assessment of exposure associated with acquired companies and permanent tax
differences. The tax reserves are analyzed periodically (at least annually) and
adjustments are made, as events occur to warrant adjustment to the reserves.
The majority of our income tax reserves originated from acquisitions.  

    Use of Estimates    

  The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. On an
ongoing basis, we evaluate the adequacy of our reserves and the estimates used
in calculations of reserves as well as other judgmental financial statement
items, including, but not limited to: collectability of accounts receivable;
volume rebates and trade-in allowances; inventory values and obsolescence
reserves; warranty reserves; depreciation and amortization periods; deferred
income taxes; goodwill and intangible assets; impairment of long-lived assets;
reserves for tax exposures; reserves for legal exposure; stock-based
compensation; and expense accruals.  

  Acquisitions
require significant estimates and judgments related to the fair value of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed. Certain liabilities are subjective in nature.
We reflect such liabilities based upon the most recent information available.
In conjunction with our acquisitions, such subjective liabilities principally
include certain income tax and sales and use tax exposures, including tax
liabilities related to our foreign subsidiaries. The ultimate settlement of
such liabilities may be for amounts which are different from the amounts
recorded.  

14     

Reclassifications    

  Certain distribution and
warehouse expenses of Crosstex have been reclassified from amounts previously
reported in our quarterly Form 10-Q s to conform with the accounting policies
of Cantel which require such costs to be classified as cost of sales. These
reclassifications affect cost of sales, gross profit and general and
administrative expenses of our Dental segment, and therefore our consolidated
amounts. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

    Recent Accounting
Pronouncements    

  In July 2006, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued FIN No. 48,   Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109   ( FIN No. 48 ). FIN No. 48 clarifies the
accounting and reporting for uncertainties in income tax law. FIN No. 48
prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition,
measurement, presentation and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or
expected to be taken in income tax returns. FIN No. 48 is effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2006. We are currently in the process of
evaluating the effect of FIN 48 on our financial position and results of
operations and therefore, are unable to estimate the effect on our overall
results of operations or financial position.  

   3.                  Acquisitions  

    Crosstex    

  On August 1, 2005, we
acquired Crosstex, a privately held company founded in 1953 and headquartered
in Hauppauge, New York. Crosstex is a leading manufacturer and reseller of
single-use infection control products used principally in the dental market.
Crosstex products include face masks, patient towels and bibs, self-sealing
sterilization pouches, tray covers, sterilization packaging accessories,
surface barriers including eyewear, aprons and gowns, disinfectants and
deodorizers, germicidal wipes, hand care products, gloves, sponges, cotton
products, cups, needles and syringes, scalpels and blades, and saliva
evacuators and ejectors.  

  Under the terms of Stock
Purchase Agreements with the five stockholders of Crosstex, pursuant to which
we acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Crosstex, we
paid an aggregate purchase price (excluding any earnout) of approximately $77,863,000,
comprised of approximately $69,843,000 in cash consideration and 384,821 shares
of Cantel common stock (valued at $6,737,000) to the former Crosstex
shareholders, and transaction costs of $1,283,000. The purchase price included
the retirement of bank debt and certain other liabilities of Crosstex.  Of this purchase price, $2,900,000 is held in
escrow for a period of eighteen months from the closing date in the eventuality
that the sellers breach standard representations and warranties in the purchase
agreement. The Company believes it is likely that the escrowed funds will be
fully paid to the sellers, and therefore such amount has been included in the
determination of the purchase price. In addition to this purchase price, there
is a further $12,000,000 potential earnout payable to the sellers of Crosstex
over three years based on the achievement by Crosstex of certain targets of (i)
earnings before interest and taxes and (ii) gross profit percentage. For the
initial post-acquisition year ended July 31, 2006, the full potential earnout
for year one of $3,667,000 was earned by the sellers of Crosstex and therefore
represents additional purchase price, bringing the aggregate earned purchase
price as of July 31, 2006 to $81,530,000. The additional earnout purchase price
for fiscal 2006 has   

15     

been reflected in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheet at July 31, 2006 as additional goodwill
and as a separate item within current liabilities (as the corresponding payment
of such earnout is not required to be paid until October 2006.)  For the fiscal years ending July 31, 2007 and
2008, an additional earnout of $3,667,000 and $4,666,000, respectively, is
available to the sellers of Crosstex if the specified targets of earnings
before interest and taxes, and gross profit percentage, are achieved. Such
additional earnout, if achieved, would represent additional purchase price and
therefore be recorded as additional goodwill when earned.  

  A registration statement
covering the resale of the 384,821 shares issued to the selling stockholders
was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on November
15, 2005. Subject to the conditions and limitations described in the Stock
Purchase Agreements with the selling stockholders, we agreed that if the average
sales price for any such shares sold by a selling stockholder during the four
month period following November 15, 2005 is less than $17.635 per share, we
would pay to such selling stockholder an amount equal to the product of
(A) the difference between the $17.635 and the average sales price and
(B) the number of shares sold by the selling stockholder. For the four
month period ended March 14, 2006, the selling stockholders sold an aggregate
of 181,700 shares and the aggregate payment to the selling shareholders was
approximately $49,000, which was recorded as a reduction to additional capital.
Such payment did not change the aggregate purchase price.  

  In conjunction with the
acquisition, on August 1, 2005 we amended our existing credit facilities, as
discussed in Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, to fund a
substantial portion of the cash consideration paid in the acquisition and
transaction costs. We borrowed $68,300,000 for the acquisition and utilized
existing cash for the remaining cash requirements. Additionally, we incurred
debt issuance costs of approximately $1,426,000, of which $160,000 of
third-party costs was recorded in general and administrative expenses during
the three months ended October 31, 2005 in accordance with applicable
accounting rules. The remaining $1,266,000 of costs was recorded in other
assets and is being amortized over the life of the credit facilities.  

  Since the acquisition and
restated credit facilities were completed on the first day of fiscal 2006, the results
of operations of Crosstex are included in our results of operations for fiscal
2006 and are excluded from our results of operations for fiscals 2005 and 2004.  

  As a result of the August
1, 2005 acquisition of Crosstex, we added a new reporting segment known as
Dental. As of July 31, 2006, this new segment had identifiable assets of $97,351,000,
including $15,630,000 in long-lived assets. For fiscal 2006, the Dental segment
added the following to our consolidated financial statements:  

Included
within the depreciation and amortization amount above was depreciation and
amortization   

16     

associated
with property and equipment of $1,726,000, amortization of intangible assets of
$2,960,000 (included within general and administrative expenses) and
amortization related to the step-up in the value of inventories of $658,000
(included within cost of sales.)  

  Operating
income added by Crosstex excludes interest expense associated with the Company s
borrowings related to the acquisition. The segment operating income for fiscal
2006 also excludes non-recurring charges directly related to the acquisition
which were incurred by us upon the closing of the acquisition. Such
non-recurring charges include (i) debt issuance costs relating to the term loan
facility of approximately $160,000 and (ii) incentive compensation for an
officer of Cantel of approximately $345,000. The aggregate amount of such
charges was approximately $505,000 (or $318,000, net of tax) and has been
included within general corporate expenses in our segment presentation in Note 18
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  

  The
reasons for the acquisition of Crosstex were as follows: (i) the complementary
nature of the companies  infection prevention and control products; (ii) the
addition of a market leading company in a distinct niche in infection
prevention and control; (iii) the increase in the percentage of our net sales
derived from recurring consumables; (iv) the opportunity to utilize Crosstex as
a sizeable platform to acquire additional companies in the healthcare consumables
industry; (v) the expectation that the acquisition will be accretive to our
earnings per share; and (vi) the opportunity for us to further expand our
business into the design, manufacture and distribution of proprietary products.
Such reasons constitute the significant factors which contributed to a purchase
price that resulted in recognition of goodwill.  

  The purchase price
(including the fiscal 2006 earnout) was allocated to the assets acquired and
assumed liabilities based on estimated fair values as follows:  

There were no in-process
research and development projects acquired in connection with the acquisition.
The excess purchase price of $38,210,000 was assigned to goodwill. Such
goodwill, all of which is non-deductible for income tax purposes, has been included
in our new Dental reporting segment. Included in cash and cash equivalents was
$1,370,000 funded by the selling stockholders and utilized for the payment in
August 2005 of current liabilities (included above and reflected within cash
flows from investing activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows for
fiscal   

17     

2006) directly resulting
from the acquisition.  

  Selected consolidated
statement of income data for fiscal 2006 and comparable unaudited pro forma
consolidated statement of income data for fiscal 2005 (assuming that Crosstex
was included in our results of continuing operations as of the beginning of
fiscal 2005) are as follows:  

This pro forma
information is provided for illustrative purposes only, and does not
necessarily indicate what the operating results of the combined company might
have been had the acquisition actually occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2005,
nor does it necessarily indicate the combined company s future operating
results.  

  In order to effect the
unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of income data for fiscal 2005, the
operating results of Cantel for fiscal 2005 were consolidated with the
operating results of Crosstex for their fiscal year ended April 30, 2005. The
results presented in the selected unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of
income data for fiscal 2005 have been prepared using the following assumptions:
(i) cost of sales during fiscal 2005 reflects a step-up in the cost basis of
Crosstex inventories based upon the appraised value of such inventories; (ii)
amortization of intangible assets and depreciation and amortization of property
and equipment is based upon the appraised fair values and useful lives of such
assets; (iii) interest expense includes interest on the senior bank debt at an
effective interest rate of 6% per annum, amortization of a portion of the new
debt issuance costs over the life of the credit facilities in accordance with
applicable accounting rules and elimination of the historical interest expense
of Crosstex; (iv) compensation for former owners has been decreased to be
consistent with the terms of their new employment contracts; and (v)
calculation of the income tax effects of the pro forma adjustments. All other
operating results reflect actual performance.  

  The unaudited pro forma
consolidated statement of income data for fiscal 2005 does not reflect
non-recurring charges directly related to the acquisition which were incurred
by us upon the closing of the acquisition. Such non-recurring charges include
(i) debt issuance costs relating to the term loan facility of approximately
$160,000 and (ii) incentive compensation for an officer of Cantel of approximately
$345,000. The aggregate amount of such charges was approximately $318,000, net
of tax. If such charges had been included in the unaudited pro forma
consolidated statement of income data, pro forma consolidated basic and diluted
earnings per share from continuing operations would have been $0.55 and $0.50,
respectively, for fiscal 2005.  

    Fluid
Solutions    

  On May 1, 2006, Mar Cor purchased certain net assets of
Fluid Solutions, Inc. ( Fluid Solutions ), a company with annual revenues of
approximately $5,000,000 based in Lowell, Massachusetts that   

18     

designs, manufactures, installs and services high
quality, high purity water systems for use in biotech, pharmaceutical,
research, hospitals, and semiconductor environments. Total consideration for
the transaction was $2,959,000. This acquisition added revenues of
approximately $1,500,000  for the three
months (post-acquisition) ended July 31, 2006, and otherwise had an
insignificant contribution to our results of operations for fiscal 2006.  

  The purchase price was
allocated to the assets acquired and assumed liabilities based on estimated
fair values as follows:  

The excess purchase price
of $582,000 was assigned to goodwill. Such goodwill, all of which is deductible
for income tax purposes, has been included in our Water Purification and
Filtration reporting segment.  

  The reasons for the acquisition were as follows: (i) the
opportunity to add a base of business and expand the Mar Cor service network in
a region that has a concentration of life science companies as well as
healthcare and research institutions; (ii) further develop the Fluid Solutions
water business to serve the New England dialysis market; (iii) the potential
revenue and cost savings synergies and efficiencies that could be realized
through optimizing and combining the acquired assets (including Fluid Solution
employees) into Mar Cor; and (iv) the expectation that the acquisition will be
accretive to our future earnings per share.  

    Pre-Fiscal
2005 Acquisitions    

  During fiscal 2004 we
acquired Saf-T-Pak, Dyped, Biolab and Mar Cor. Since these acquisitions
occurred in fiscal 2004, the results of operations of these acquired companies
are included in our operating results for fiscal 2006 and 2005 and the portion
of fiscal 2004 subsequent to the dates of the respective acquisitions.  

  Certain of the assumed
liabilities relating to the Biolab, Mar Cor, Dyped and Saf-T-Pak acquisitions
are subjective in nature. These liabilities have been reflected based upon the
most recent information available and principally include certain potential
income tax exposures. The ultimate settlement of such liabilities may be for
amounts which are different from the amounts presently recorded. Settlements
related to income tax exposures, if any, would be adjusted through goodwill.  

  There were no in-process
research and development projects acquired in connection with the Biolab, Mar
Cor, Dyped and Saf-T-Pak acquisitions.  

19  

Saf-T-Pak    

  On
June 1, 2004, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding stock of Saf-T-Pak,
a private company located in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada with pre-acquisition
annual revenues of approximately $5,000,000 and pre-acquisition annual
operating income of approximately $1,800,000 for its latest pre-acquisition
fiscal year ended August 31, 2003. Saf-T-Pak is a designer and manufacturer of
specialty packaging and thermal control products for the safe transport of
infectious and biological specimens and thermally sensitive pharmaceutical,
medical and other products. Saf-T-Pak also offers a full array of compliance
training services ranging from software and internet sessions to group seminars
and private on-site programs.  

  The total consideration
for the transaction, including transaction costs, was approximately $8,522,000.
Under the terms of the purchase agreement, we may pay additional consideration
at the end of each fiscal year, up to an aggregate of $3,094,000 for the
thirty-eight month period ending July 31, 2007, based upon Saf-T-Pak achieving
specified targets of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization ( EBITDA ). As of July 31, 2006, none of the additional purchase
price had been earned; however, because the earnout targets contain a
cumulative clause, it is possible for the full remaining amount to be earned in
fiscal 2007. If earned, such earnout would be recorded as additional goodwill.  

  The purchase price was
allocated to the assets acquired and assumed liabilities based on estimated
fair values as follows:  

The excess purchase price
of $5,302,000 was assigned to goodwill. Such goodwill, all of which is
non-deductible for income tax purposes, has been included in our Specialty Packaging
reporting segment.  

  The reasons for the
acquisition of Saf-T-Pak were as follows: (i) the opportunity to expand and
diversify our infection prevention and control business; (ii) the opportunity
for Cantel to enter into the specialized packaging market for the transport of
infectious and biological substances, which is a market that has undergone
recent government regulatory changes creating attractive market dynamics; and
(iii) the expectation that the acquisition will be accretive to our earnings per
share.  

    Dyped    

  On September 12, 2003, we
acquired the endoscope reprocessing systems and infection control technologies
of Dyped, a private company based in The Netherlands. The total consideration
for the transaction, including transaction costs, was approximately $1,812,000
and included a note payable   

20     

in five annual
installments with a present value of approximately $1,211,000 (with a face
value of $1,505,000). Since certain specified research and development
objectives were not achieved we were not required to pay any additional
purchase price. The primary reason for the acquisition of Dyped was to expand
Minntech s technological capabilities and augment its endoscope reprocessing
product line with a new, fully automated reprocessor designed to be compliant
with European standards and market requirements.  

  The purchase price was
allocated to the assets acquired and assumed liabilities based on estimated
fair values as follows:  

The excess purchase price
of $1,640,000 was assigned to goodwill. Such goodwill, all of which is
non-deductible for income tax purposes, has been included in our Endoscope Reprocessing
reporting segment.  

  For fiscals 2006 and 2005, the acquisition of Dyped
contributed $1,845,000 and $1,521,000 to our net sales and had an insignificant
impact upon net income. For the portion of fiscal 2004 subsequent to its
acquisition, Dyped had an insignificant impact upon net sales and net income.
However, a significant portion of our research and development expenses for
fiscals 2006, 2005 and 2004 were attributable to the Dyped product line.
Additionally, such research and development expenses contributed to the overall
loss at Minntech s Netherlands facility for which a partial tax benefit was
recorded, as described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

    Biolab    

  On August 1, 2003, we
acquired all of the issued and outstanding stock of Biolab, a private company
in the water treatment industry with historical pre-acquisition annual revenues
of approximately $10,000,000. Biolab designs, manufactures, sells and provides
maintenance and installation services for high purity water systems for the
medical, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, research, beverage and semiconductor
industries. Biolab has locations in suburban Toronto and suburban Montreal,
Canada.  

  The total consideration
for the transaction, including transaction costs and assumption of debt, was
approximately $7,876,000. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, we may pay
additional consideration at the end of each fiscal year, up to an aggregate of
$3,000,000 for the three year period ending July 31, 2006, based upon Biolab achieving
specified targets of EBITDA. As of July 31, 2006, none of the additional
purchase price had been earned and there is no further opportunity for such
earnout to be achieved; however, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

21     

The purchase price was
allocated to the assets acquired and assumed liabilities based on estimated
fair values as follows:   

The excess purchase price
of $4,433,000 was assigned to goodwill. Such goodwill, all of which is
non-deductible for income tax purposes, has been included in our Water
Purification and Filtration reporting segment.  

    Mar
Cor    

  On August 1, 2003, we
acquired all of the issued and outstanding stock of Mar Cor, a private company
in the water treatment industry with historical pre-acquisition annual revenues
of approximately $10,000,000. Mar Cor, based in suburban Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania with locations in Atlanta and Chicago, is primarily a
service-oriented company providing design, installation, service and maintenance,
training and supplies for water and fluid treatment systems to the medical,
research, and pharmaceutical industries.   

  The total consideration
for the transaction, including transaction costs and assumption of debt, was
approximately $8,215,000.   

  The purchase price was
allocated to the assets acquired and assumed liabilities based on estimated
fair values as follows:  

The excess purchase price
of $5,244,000 was assigned to goodwill. Such goodwill, all of which is   

22     

non-deductible for income
tax purposes, has been included in our Water Purification and Filtration
reporting segment.  

  The reasons for the
acquisitions of Biolab and Mar Cor were as follows: (i) the overall strategic
fit of water treatment with our existing dialysis and filtration technology
businesses; (ii) the opportunity to grow our existing businesses and the water
treatment business by combining Minntech s sales, marketing, and product
development capabilities with Mar Cor s regional field service organization and
Biolab s water treatment equipment design and manufacturing expertise;
(iii)  the opportunity to expand and
diversify our infection prevention and control business, particularly within
the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; and (iv) the expectation that
the acquisitions would be accretive to our earnings per share.  

   4.             Inventories   

  A
summary of inventories is as follows:  

5.             Discontinued
Operations   

   On July 31 , 2006, Carsen closed the sale of substantially all of
its assets to Olympus under an Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of May 16,
2006 among Carsen, Cantel and Olympus. Olympus purchased substantially all of
Carsen s assets other than those related to Carsen s Medivators business and
certain other smaller product lines. Following the closing, Olympus hired
substantially all of Carsen s employees and took over Carsen s Olympus-related
operations (as well as the operations related to the other acquired product
lines). The transaction resulted in an after-tax gain of approximately
$6,776,000 and was recorded separately on the Consolidated Statements of Income
as gain on disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax. In connection with
the transaction, Carsen s Medivators-related assets as well as certain of its
other assets that were not acquired by Olympus were sold to our new Canadian
distributor of Medivators products.   

  The purchase price for the net assets sold to Olympus
was approximately $31,200,000, comprised of a fixed sum of $10,000,000 plus an
additional formula-based sum of $21,200,000. In addition, Olympus will pay Carsen
20% of Olympus  revenues attributable to Carsen s unfilled customer orders as
of July 31, 2006 that were assumed by Olympus at the closing. Such payments to
Carsen (currently anticipated to be approximately $450,000) will be made
following Olympus  receipt of customer payments for such orders.  

23     

The $10,000,000 fixed
portion of the purchase price was in consideration for (i) Carsen s customer
lists, sales records, and certain other assets related to the sale and
servicing of Olympus products and certain non-Olympus products distributed by
Carsen, (ii) the release of Olympus  contractual restriction on hiring Carsen
personnel, (iii) real property leases (which were assumed or replaced by
Olympus) and leasehold improvements, computer and software systems, equipment
and machinery, telephone systems, and records related to the acquired assets,
and (iv) assisting Olympus in effecting a smooth transition of Carsen s
business of distributing and servicing Olympus and certain non-Olympus products
in Canada. Cantel has also agreed (on behalf of itself and its affiliates) not
to manufacture, distribute, sell or represent for sale in Canada through July
31, 2007 any products that are competitive with the Olympus products formerly
sold by Carsen under its Olympus Distribution Agreements.  

  The $21,200,000 formula-based portion of the purchase
price was based on the book value of Carsen s inventories of Olympus and
certain non-Olympus products and the net book amount of Carsen s accounts
receivable and certain other assets, all at July 31, 2006, subject to offsets,
particularly for accounts payable of Carsen due to Olympus.    

  Net proceeds from Carsen s sale of net assets and the
termination of Carsen s operations were approximately $21,100,000 (excluding
the backlog payments) after satisfaction of remaining liabilities and taxes.  

  As a
result of the foregoing transaction, which coincided with the expiration of
Carsen s exclusive distribution agreements with Olympus on July 31, 2006,
Carsen no longer has any remaining product lines or active business operations.  

  The net sales and
operating income attributable to Carsen s business (inclusive of both Olympus
and non-Olympus business, but exclusive of the sale of Medivators reprocessors)
constitute the entire Endoscopy and Surgical reporting segment and Scientific
operating segment, which historically was included within the All Other
reporting segment.  

24     

Operating
segment information and net income attributable to Carsen s business is
summarized below:  

Prior
to being reported as discontinued operations, fiscal 2006 net sales and
operating income of Carsen accounted for approximately 25.3% and 53.3% of our
fiscal 2006 consolidated net sales and operating income, respectively.   

  Cash flows attributable
to discontinued operations comprise the following:  

Financing
activities of our discontinued operations did not result in any net cash in
fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004.  

25     

At July 31, 2006 and 2005,
assets and liabilities of discontinued operations consisted of the following:  

As of September 18, 2006,
substantially all of the July 31, 2006 assets (which primarily related to the
finalization of the Olympus transaction) have been converted to cash and a
significant portion of the liabilities have been paid; the remaining
liabilities will be settled prior to the end of fiscal 2007.  

   6.                 Financial Instruments   

   We account for derivative instruments and hedging
activities in accordance with  SFAS No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  
( SFAS 133 ), as amended.  SFAS 133 requires
the Company to recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value.
Derivatives that are not designated as hedges must be adjusted to fair value
through earnings. If the derivative is designated as a hedge, depending on the
nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative will either be
offset against the change in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities
or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive
income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion
of the change in fair value of a derivative that is designated as a hedge will
be immediately recognized in earnings.     

  Carsen
purchased and paid for a substantial portion of its products in United States
dollars and sold its products in Canadian dollars, and was therefore exposed to
fluctuations in the rates of exchange   

26     

between
the United States dollar and the Canadian dollar. In order to hedge against the
impact of such currency fluctuations on the purchases of inventories, Carsen
entered into foreign currency forward contracts on firm purchases of such
inventories in United States dollars. These foreign currency forward contracts
were designated as cash flow hedge instruments. Due to the sale of
substantially all of Carsen s assets to Olympus on July 31, 2006, Carsen no
longer has any such foreign currency forward contracts at July 31, 2006.   

   In
addition, c hanges in the value of the euro against the United States
dollar affect our results of operations because a portion of the net assets of
our Netherlands subsidiary (which are reported in our Dialysis and Endoscope
Reprocessing segments) are denominated and ultimately settled in United States
dollars but must be converted into its functional euro currency. In order to
hedge against the impact of fluctuations in the value of the euro relative to
the United States dollar, we enter into short-term contracts to purchase euros
forward, which contracts are generally one month in duration. These short-term
contracts are designated as fair value hedge instruments. Due to the
insignificant net amount of assets and liabilities of our Netherlands
subsidiary denominated in United States dollars at July 31, 2006, we did not
have any foreign currency forward contracts on that date. Under our credit
facilities, such contracts to purchase euros may not exceed $12,000,000 in an
aggregate notional amount at any time. During fiscal 2006, such forward
contracts were effective in offsetting most of the impact of the weakening of
the euro on our results of operations.  

   All
of our foreign currency forward contracts were designated as hedges in
accordance with SFAS 133. Recognition of gains and losses related to the
Canadian foreign currency forward contracts were deferred within other
comprehensive income until settlement of the underlying commitments, and
realized gains and losses were recorded within cost of sales upon settlement.  Gains
and losses related to the hedging contracts to buy euros forward are
immediately realized within general and administrative expenses due to the
short-term nature of such contracts. We do not hold any derivative financial
instruments for speculative or trading purposes.  

   As of July 31, 2006 and 2005, the carrying amounts for
cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate
fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments. We  believe
that as of July 31, 2006, the fair value of our outstanding borrowings under our
credit facilities approximates the carrying value of those obligations based on
the borrowing rates which are comparable to market interest rates.  

   7.             Intangibles
and Goodwill   

  Our
intangible assets which continue to be subject to amortization consist primarily
of customer relationships, technology, brand names, non-compete agreements and
patents. These intangible assets are being amortized on the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of the assets ranging from 3-20 years
and have a weighted average amortization period of 10 years as of July 31,
2006. Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $4,726,000,
$1,590,000 and $1,264,000 for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Intangible assets acquired in conjunction with the Crosstex acquisition are
more fully described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our
intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives and therefore are not
amortized consist of trademarks and tradenames.  

27     

The
Company s intangible assets consist of the following:  

Estimated annual amortization expense of our intangible
assets for the next five years is as follows:  

Goodwill changed during
fiscal 2006 and 2005 as follows:  

28     

On July 31, 2006 and
2005, we performed impairment studies of the Company s goodwill and trademark
and tradenames and concluded that such assets were not impaired.  

   8.             Warranties   

  A summary of activity in the warranty reserves follows:   

The warranty provisions and charges during fiscal 2006
and 2005 relate principally to the Company s endoscope reprocessing products.  

   9.             Financing Arrangements   

  In conjunction with the
acquisition of Crosstex, we entered into amended and restated credit facilities
dated as of August 1, 2005 (the  2005 U.S. Credit Facilities ) with a
consortium of United States lenders to fund the cash consideration paid in the
acquisition and costs associated with the acquisition, as well as to modify our
existing United States credit facilities. The 2005 U.S. Credit Facilities
include (i) a six-year $40.0 million senior secured amortizing term loan
facility and (ii) a five-year $35.0 million senior secured revolving
credit facility. In addition, we agreed to repay the July 31, 2005 outstanding
borrowings of $15,750,000 under our original term loan facility within ninety
(90) days from the closing. In October 2005, such amount was repaid primarily
through the repatriation of funds from our foreign subsidiaries. Amounts we
repay under the term loan facility may not be re-borrowed. Additionally, we
incurred debt issuance costs of approximately $1,426,000, of which $160,000 of
third-party costs was recorded in general and administrative expenses during
the three months ended October 31, 2005 in accordance with applicable
accounting rules. The remaining $1,266,000 of costs was recorded in other
assets and will be amortized over the life of the credit facilities.  

  Borrowings under the 2005
U.S. Credit Facilities bear interest at rates ranging from 0% to 0.75% above
the lender s base rate, or at rates ranging from 1.0% to 2.0% above the London
Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ), depending upon our consolidated ratio of debt
to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and as
further adjusted under the terms of the 2005 U.S. Credit Facilities ( EBITDA ). At
July 31, 2006, the lender s base rate was 8.25% and the LIBOR rate was 4.22%.
The margins applicable to our outstanding borrowings at July 31, 2006 were
0.00% above the lender s base rate and 1.25% above LIBOR. All of our
outstanding borrowings were under LIBOR contracts at July 31, 2006. The 2005
U.S. Credit Facilities also provide for fees on the unused portion of our
facilities at rates ranging from 0.20% to 0.40%, depending upon our
consolidated ratio of debt to EBITDA; such rate was 0.25% at July 31, 2006.  

  The
2005 U.S. Credit Facilities require us to meet certain financial covenants and
are secured by (i) substantially all of our U.S.-based assets (including
assets of Cantel, Minntech, Mar Cor and  

29  

Crosstex)
and (ii) our pledge of all of the outstanding shares of Minntech, Mar Cor
and Crosstex and 65% of the outstanding shares of our foreign-based
subsidiaries. Additionally, we are not permitted to pay cash dividends on our
Common Stock without the consent of our United States lenders. In June 2006,
Crosstex obtained a 600,000 euro standby letter of credit from its former bank
relating to a fixed asset being constructed for Crosstex. Subsequent to July
31, 2006, a waiver was received from our lenders permitting the standby letter
of credit. We are in compliance with all financial and other covenants under
the 2005 U.S. Credit Facilities.  

  On July 31, 2006, we had
$38,000,000 of outstanding borrowings under the 2005 U.S. Credit Facilities,
all of which was under the United States term loan facility. In July 2006, we
terminated our Canadian-based senior secured revolving credit facility with a
Canadian bank due to the July 31, 2006 sale of substantially all of Carsen s
assets.  

  The maturities of our
United States term loan facility are described in Note 11 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

   10.          Income Taxes   

  The consolidated effective tax rate from continuing operations was 44.3%,
41.0% and 41.6% for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, and reflects
income tax expense for our United States and international operations at their
respective statutory rates.  

  The provision for
income taxes from continuing operations consists of the following:  

The geographic
components of income from continuing operations before income taxes are as
follows:  

30     

The effective tax
rate from continuing operations differs from the United States statutory tax
rate (35% in 2006 and 34% in 2005 and 2004) due to the following:  

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities from
continuing operations are comprised of the following:  

31     

Deferred tax
assets and liabilities have been adjusted for changes in statutory tax rates as
appropriate. Such changes only have a significant impact in the United States
where substantially all of our deferred tax items exist. Such deferred tax
items reflect a combined U.S. Federal and state effective rate of approximately
39% for fiscal 2006.  

  For domestic tax
reporting purposes, our net operating loss carryforwards ( NOLs ) were fully
utilized during the three months ended October 31, 2005. For foreign tax
reporting purposes, our NOL s at July 31, 2006 are approximately
$1,133,000.  Of this amount, the NOLs
from our Japanese subsidiary total approximately $137,000 and expire on July
31, 2013. The remaining NOLs of $996,000 relate to our Netherlands subsidiary
and have an indefinite life.  

  On January 1, 2006, a
favorable tax ruling in the Netherlands expired. This favorable ruling
generated no effective tax rate for the Netherlands. The expiration of the
ruling generated an effective tax rate which gave rise to deferred tax assets
amounting to approximately $1,419,000 as of July 31, 2006. A valuation
allowance was established in fiscal 2006 to reduce substantially all the net
deferred tax assets of our Netherlands subsidiary.  

  On October 22, 2004, the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Act ) became law. The Act creates a
one-time tax incentive for United States corporations to repatriate accumulated
income earned abroad by providing a tax deduction equal to 85% of the dividends
received for certain foreign earnings that are repatriated. In December 2004,
the FASB issued FASB Staff Position 109-2, which provided interpretative
guidance in connection with accounting for the impact of the Act, due to the
lack of clarification of the provisions within the Act and the timing of
enactment.  

  We repatriated dividends
of approximately $2,000,000 and $44,872,000 of qualified foreign earnings from
continuing operations and discontinued operations, respectively, during fiscal
2006 for which we have provided U.S. Federal and state income taxes and foreign
withholding taxes.  

  A portion of the
undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries amounting to approximately
$1,447,000 was considered to be indefinitely reinvested at July 31, 2006.
Accordingly, no provision has been made for United States income taxes that
might result from repatriation of these earnings.  

  Canadian income taxes
related to income from discontinued operations have an effective tax rate of
approximately 35.4%. We also recorded a gain on disposal of discontinued
operations of $6,776,000, which is net of $4,621,000 in taxes. Such income
taxes related to the gain on disposal of discontinued operations include
Canadian income and foreign withholding taxes of $2,617,000 and U.S. income
taxes of $2,004,000. Such U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes
related exclusively to the aforementioned dividend repatriation. Additionally,
we also recorded a deferred tax asset of approximately $1,424,000 related to a
foreign tax credit that resulted from the dividend repatriation. This foreign
tax credit carryover expires on July 31, 2016. A full valuation allowance was
established in fiscal 2006 on this foreign tax credit as we believe that it is
more likely than not that we will not utilize the foreign tax credit. See Note
5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related
to discontinued operations.  

  We had income tax reserves from continuing operations totaling $1,088,000
and $1,433,000 at July 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   Such amounts were recorded in income taxes
payable.  

32     

11.               Commitments
and Contingencies  

    Long-term
contractual obligations    

  Aggregate annual required
payments over the next five years and thereafter under our contractual
obligations that have long-term components are as follows:  

(1)      The
expected interest payments under the credit facilities reflect an interest rate
of 6.75%, which was our interest rate on outstanding borrowings at September
18, 2006. 

    Operating
leases    

  Minimum commitments under
operating leases include minimum rental commitments for our leased
manufacturing facilities, warehouses, office space and equipment.  

  Five of the more
significant leases that contain escalation clauses are two building leases for
our Water Purification and Filtration business and three building leases for our
Dental business. The two Water Purification and Filtration building leases are
for the United States headquarters in suburban Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and
the Canadian headquarters in suburban Toronto, Ontario. The lease for the
Philadelphia building provides for monthly base rent of approximately $15,100
during fiscal 2007 and escalates annually to approximately $18,200 in fiscal
2017 when it expires. The Toronto building lease provides for monthly base rent
of approximately $9,900 during fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2009 and escalates to
approximately $11,000 in fiscal 2010. The Toronto building lease expires in
fiscal 2015. Both the Philadelphia and Toronto building leases are guaranteed
by Cantel. Additionally, our Dental segment has three significant building
leases with escalation clauses that are used for manufacturing and warehousing.
One building lease in Sharon, Pennsylvania provides for monthly base rent of
approximately $7,700 during fiscal 2007 and escalates annually to approximately
$9,700 in fiscal 2015 when it expires. This facility is owned by an entity
controlled by three of the former owners of Crosstex (two of whom currently
serve as officers of Crosstex). The second building lease in Lawrenceville,
Georgia provides for monthly base rent of approximately $11,000 during fiscal
2007 and escalates annually to approximately $11,800 in fiscal 2011 when it
expires. The third building lease in Santa Fe Springs, California provides for
monthly base rent of approximately $18,000 during fiscal 2007 and escalates
annually to approximately $19,900 in fiscal 2011 when it expires.  

33     

Rent expense related to
operating leases for fiscal 2006 was recorded on a straight-line basis and
aggregated $2,881,000 (including rent expense attributable to our Dental segment
of approximately $782,000) compared with $2,071,000 and $1,703,000 for fiscal
2005 and 2004, respectively. The fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounts exclude
rent expense related to our discontinued operations.  

    Capital
leases    

  Minimum commitments under
capital leases are for four trucks used in our Water Purification and
Filtration business. The aggregate cost of the four trucks was approximately
$122,000. At July 31, 2006 and 2005, the net book value included in property
and equipment was approximately $12,000 and $41,000, respectively.  

    Dyped
note payable and other long-term liabilities    

  In conjunction
with the Dyped acquisition on September 12, 2003, we issued a note with a face
value of  1,350,000 ($1,505,000 using the exchange rate on the date of the
acquisition). At July 31, 2006, approximately $1,372,000 of this note was
outstanding using the exchange rate on July 31, 2006. Such note is non-interest
bearing and has been recorded at its present value of $1,282,000 at July 31,
2006. The current portion of this note is recorded in accrued expenses and the
remainder is recorded in other long-term liabilities.   

  Also
included in other long-term liabilities are deferred compensation arrangements
for certain former Minntech directors and officers.  

   12.               Stock-Based Compensation  

  On August 1, 2005, we adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123,   Share-Based Payment (Revised 2004)   ( SFAS 123R ) using the
modified prospective method for the transition. Under the modified prospective
method, stock compensation expense will be recognized for any option grant or
stock award granted on or after August 1, 2005, as well as the unvested portion
of stock options granted prior to August 1, 2005, based upon the award s fair
value. For fiscal 2005 and earlier periods, we have accounted for stock options
using the intrinsic value method under which stock compensation expense is not
recognized because we granted stock options with exercise prices equal to the
market value of the shares at the date of grant.  

34     

The following
table shows the income statement components of stock-based compensation expense
recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income in fiscal 2006:  

For the year ended July 31, 2006, we have recorded in our condensed
consolidated financial statements stock-based compensation expense in the
amount of $1,178,000 (which decreased both basic and diluted earnings per share
from net income by $0.06) with a corresponding increase to additional capital,
partially offset by the related income tax benefits of $248,000 (which pertain
to options that do not qualify as incentive stock options) with a corresponding
increase to long-term deferred income tax assets (which are netted with
long-term deferred income tax liabilities).  

  Most of our stock
options are subject to graded vesting in which portions of the option award
vest at different times during the vesting period, as opposed to awards that
vest at the end of the vesting period. We recognize compensation expense for
options subject to graded vesting using the straight-line basis, reduced by
estimated forfeitures. Total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense
related to total nonvested stock options was $651,000 at July 31, 2006 with a
remaining weighted average period of 18 months over which such expense is expected
to be recognized.  

  The fair value of
each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option valuation model with the following assumptions for options granted
during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004:  

(1) Volatility was
based on historical closing prices of our Common Stock.  

  (2) The U.S.
Treasury rate based on the expected life at the date of grant.  

  (3) Based on historical
exercise behavior.  

  Additionally, all options
were considered to be non-deductible for tax purposes in the valuation model,
except for options granted during fiscal 2006 and 2005 under the 1998 Director s
Plan and certain options under the 1997 Employee Plan. Such non-qualified
options were tax-effected using the Company s estimated U.S. effective tax rate
at the time of grant. In fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, the weighted average fair
value of all options granted was $8.15, $7.38 and $3.94, respectively. The  

35     

aggregate intrinsic value
(i.e. the excess market price over the exercise price) of all options exercised
was approximately $2,714,000, $5,545,000 and $4,878,000 in fiscal 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively. The aggregate fair value of all options vested was
approximately $1,797,000, $7,555,000 and $1,690,000 in fiscal 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. The aggregate fair value of all options vested during
fiscal 2005 was significant due to the accelerated vesting of certain options
as more fully described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

  A summary of stock
option activity follows:  

Upon exercise of stock options, we typically issue new
shares of our Common Stock (as opposed to using treasury shares).  

  If certain criteria are met when an option is exercised,
the Company is allowed a deduction on its income tax return. Accordingly, we
account for the income tax effect on such income tax deductions as additional
capital (assuming deferred tax assets do not exist pertaining to the exercised
stock options) and as a reduction of income taxes payable. In fiscal 2006,
options exercised resulted in income tax deductions that reduced income taxes
payable by $1,166,000.  

  At July 31, 2005 (prior to the adoption of SFAS
123R), we presented all tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise
of stock options as operating cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash
flows. Beginning August 1, 2005, we changed our cash flow presentation in
accordance with SFAS 123R which requires the cash flows resulting from excess
tax benefits to be classified as financing cash flows. In fiscal 2006, $787,000
in excess tax benefits were shown as financing cash flows in our Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows. Excess tax benefits arise when the ultimate tax effect
of the deduction for tax purposes is greater than the tax benefit on stock
compensation expense (including tax benefits on stock compensation expense that
has only been reflected in the pro forma disclosures) which was determined
based upon the award s fair value.  

36     

The following
table summarizes additional information related to stock options outstanding at
July 31, 2006:  

A summary of our stock option plans follows:  

    1997 Employee Plan    

  A total of
3,750,000 shares of Common Stock was originally reserved for issuance or
available for grant under our 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan, as amended,
which expires on October 15, 2007. Options under this plan:  

             are granted at the closing market price at the
time of the grant, 

             are granted primarily as incentive stock options
(although non-incentive stock options are permitted), 

             are usually exercisable in three or four equal
annual installments contingent upon being employed by the Company during that
period, and 

             typically
expire five years from the date of the grant. 

  This plan was
amended in December 2003 to permit the grant of options that do not qualify as
incentive stock options. At July 31, 2006, options to purchase 1,698,699 shares
of Common Stock were outstanding under the 1997 Employee Plan and 642,785
shares were available for grant. In July 2005, we accelerated the vesting of
certain unvested and  out-of-the-money  stock options, as more fully described
above.  

    1991
Directors  Plan    

  A total of 450,000
shares of Common Stock was originally reserved for issuance or available for
grant under our 1991 Directors  Stock Option Plan, which expired in fiscal
2001. All options outstanding at July 31, 2006 under this plan do not qualify
as incentive stock options, have a term of ten years and are fully exercisable.
At July 31, 2006, options to purchase 63,000 shares of Common Stock were
outstanding. No additional options will be granted under this plan.  

37     

1998 Directors  Plan    

  A total of 450,000
shares of Common Stock was originally reserved for issuance or available for
grant under our 1998 Directors  Stock Option Plan, as amended. Options under
this plan:  

             are granted to directors at the closing market
price at the time of grant, 

             are granted automatically to each newly
appointed or elected director to purchase 15,000 shares, 

             are granted annually on the last day of our
fiscal year to each member of our Board of Directors to purchase 1,500 shares
(assuming the individual is still a member of the Board of Directors, 50% are
exercisable on the first anniversary of the grant of such options and 50% are
exercisable on the second anniversary of the grant of such options), 

             are granted quarterly on the last day of each of
our fiscal quarters to each non-employee director who attended that quarter s
regularly scheduled Board of Directors meeting to purchase 750 shares (100% are
exercisable immediately), 

             have a term of ten years if granted prior to
July 31, 2000 or five years if granted on or after July 31, 2000, and 

             do
not qualify as incentive stock options. 

  At July 31, 2006,
options to purchase 266,625 shares of Common Stock were outstanding under the
1998 Directors  Plan and 86,625 shares were available for grant.  

    Non-plan options    

  We also have
345,375 non-plan options outstanding at July 31, 2006 which have been granted
at the closing market price at the time of grant and expire up to a maximum of
ten years from the date of grant. These non-plan options do not qualify as
incentive stock options.  

   13.               Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income  

  Our
accumulated other comprehensive income consists of the following:  

For purposes of translating the balance sheet at July
31, 2006 compared with July 31, 2005, the value of the Canadian dollar
increased by approximately 8.2% and the value of the euro increased by
approximately 5.2% compared with the value of the United States dollar. The
total of these currency movements increased the accumulated translation
adjustment by $1,004,000 during fiscal 2006 after adjusting for the realization
of the cumulative translation adjustment related to our discontinued operations
in the amount of $3,286,000 (which was recorded in the gain on disposal of
discontinued operations, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statement of Income.)  

38     

14.          Earnings Per Common Share   

  Basic earnings per common share are
computed based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during the year.  

  Diluted earnings per common
share are computed based upon the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the year plus the dilutive effect of common stock
equivalents using the treasury stock method and the average market price of our
Common Stock for the year.  

  The calculations of weighted average common shares and
earnings per share for all periods presented reflect the January 2005 stock
split, as described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

  The following table sets forth the computation of
basic and diluted earnings per common share:  

39  

15.               Repurchase
of shares  

  In
April 2006, our Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to 500,000
shares of our outstanding Common Stock. Under the repurchase program we
repurchase shares from time-to-time at prevailing prices and as permitted by
applicable securities laws (including SEC Rule 10b-18) and New York Stock
Exchange requirements, and subject to market conditions. The repurchase program
has a one-year term ending April 12, 2007.  

  The
first purchase under our repurchase program occurred on April 19, 2006. Through
July 31, 2006, we had completed the repurchase of 303,000 shares under the
repurchase program.  

  The following table summarizes the repurchase of
Common Stock under the repurchase program during fiscal 2006:  

Through
September 18, 2006, we had completed the purchase of 349,600 shares under the
repurchase program at a total average price per share of $14.14. Therefore, at
September 18, 2006, the maximum number of shares that may be purchased under
the program are 150,400 shares.  

   16.          Retirement Plans   

  We have 401(k) Savings and Retirement Plans for the
benefit of eligible United States employees. Additionally, Crosstex maintains a
profit sharing plan for the benefit of eligible employees. Contributions by the
Company are both discretionary and non-discretionary and are limited in any
year to the amount allowable by the Internal Revenue Service.  

  Aggregate employer contributions under these plans
were $898,000, $1,054,000 and $537,000 for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. In fiscal 2006, our new Dental segment contributed $399,000. The
higher employer contributions in fiscal 2005, compared with fiscal 2006 and
2004, was primarily due to the Company providing discretionary contributions in
fiscal 2005 to eligible United States employees primarily in our Dialysis,
Endoscope Reprocessing and Therapeutic reporting segments. No such
discretionary contributions were given in fiscal 2006 and 2004.  

   17.          Supplemental Cash Flow Information   

  Interest paid was $3,299,000, $966,000 and $1,082,000
for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  Income tax payments were $7,470,000, $2,137,000 and
$421,000 for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in income
tax payments in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 and 2004 is due to the
full utilization of our remaining Federal net operating loss carry forwards in   

40     

fiscal 2006.
Included in the fiscal 2004 income tax payments are refunds received which
related to prior year overpayments of foreign income taxes.  

  As part of the purchase price for the Crosstex
acquisition, as more fully described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, 384,821 shares of Cantel common stock (valued at $6,737,000) were
issued to the former Crosstex shareholders.  

   18.                                    Information
as to Operating Segments and Foreign and Domestic Operations  

  We
are a leading provider of infection prevention and control products in the
healthcare market. Our products include specialized medical device reprocessing
systems for renal dialysis and endoscopy, dialysate concentrates and other
dialysis supplies, water purification equipment, sterilants, disinfectants and
cleaners, hollow fiber membrane filtration and separation products for medical
and non-medical applications, and specialty packaging for infectious and
biological specimens. We also provide technical maintenance for our products
and offer compliance training services for the transport of infectious and
biological specimens.  

  In accordance with SFAS No. 131,   Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information   ( SFAS 131 ), we have determined our reportable
business segments based upon an assessment of product types, organizational
structure, customers and internally prepared financial statements. The primary
factors used by us in analyzing segment performance are net sales and operating
income.  

  Since the acquisition of
Crosstex was completed on the first day of fiscal 2006, the results of
operations of Crosstex are included in the accompanying segment information for
fiscal 2006 and are excluded from the accompanying segment information for
fiscal 2005 and 2004. The Crosstex acquisition added a new reporting segment
known as Dental as more fully described below.  

  Since the acquisition of Saf-T-Pak occurred in June 1,
2004, its results of operations are included in the accompanying segment
information for fiscal 2006, 2005 and the portion of fiscal 2004 subsequent to
the date of acquisition.  

  The Company s segments are as follows:  

   Dialysis  , which includes
disinfection/sterilization reprocessing equipment, sterilants, supplies and
concentrates related to hemodialysis treatment of patients with acute kidney
failure or chronic kidney failure associated with end-stage renal disease. Additionally,
this segment includes technical maintenance service on its products. 

   Dental  , which includes
single-use infection control products used principally in the dental market
such as face masks, patient towels and bibs, self-sealing sterilization pouches,
tray covers, sterilization packaging accessories, surface barriers including
eyewear, aprons and gowns, disinfectants and deodorizers, germicidal wipes,
hand care products, gloves, sponges, cotton products, cups, needles and
syringes, scalpels and blades, and saliva evacuators and ejectors. 

  Our Dental segment is particularly reliant on four
customers who collectively accounted for 48% of Dental segment net sales and
13% of our consolidated net sales from continuing operations during fiscal
2006. Three of such customers, Henry Schein, Benco Dental and Patterson Dental
each accounted for 10% or more of this segment s net sales during that period.  

41     

Water Purification and Filtration  ,
which includes water purification equipment design and manufacturing, project
management, installation, maintenance, deionization and mixing systems, as well
as hollow fiber filter devices and ancillary products for high-purity fluid and
separation applications for the medical, pharmaceutical, biotechnology,
research, beverage and semiconductor industries. Additionally, this segment
includes cold sterilant products used to disinfect high-purity water systems. 

   Endoscope Reprocessing  , which
includes endoscope disinfection equipment and related accessories and supplies
that are sold to hospitals, clinics and physicians. Additionally, this segment
includes technical maintenance service on its products. 

   All Other   

  In
accordance with quantitative thresholds established by SFAS 131, we have
combined the Specialty Packaging, and Therapeutic operating segments into the
All Other reporting segment.  

   Specialty Packaging  ,
which includes specialty packaging and thermal control products, as well as
related compliance training, for the safe transport of infectious and
biological specimens and thermally sensitive pharmaceutical, medical and other
products. 

   Therapeutic Filtration  ,
which includes hollow fiber filter devices and ancillary products for use in
medical applications that are sold to biotech manufacturers and third-party
distributors. 

   On July 31 , 2006, Carsen
closed the sale of substantially all of its assets to Olympus America Inc. and
certain of its affiliates under an Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of May 16,
2006 among Carsen, Cantel and Olympus, as more fully described in Note 5 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result of the foregoing transaction,
Carsen no longer has any remaining product lines or active business operations.
The businesses of Carsen, previously reported in the Endoscopy and Surgical,
Endoscope Reprocessing and All Other reporting segments, are reflected as a
discontinued operation in our Consolidated Financial Statements and have been
excluded from segment results for all periods presented.  

  The operating segments follow the same accounting
policies used for our Consolidated Financial Statements as described in Note 2.  

42     

Information as to operating segments is summarized
below:  

43     

44     

Information as to geographic areas (including net
sales which represent the geographic area from which the Company derives its
net sales from external customers) is summarized below:  

19.          Direct
Sale of Medivators Systems in the United States   

  On August 2, 2006, we
commenced the sale and service of our Medivators brand endoscope reprocessing
equipment, high-level disinfectants, cleaners and consumables through our own
United States field sales and service organization. Our direct sale of these
products is the result of our decision that it is in our best long-term
interests to control and develop our own hospital-based United States
distribution network and, as such, not to renew Olympus  exclusive United
States distribution agreement when it expired on August 1, 2006. Net sales to
Olympus accounted for 9.8%, 11.8% and 13.4% of our net sales from continuing
operations in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  Throughout the former
distribution arrangement with Olympus, we employed our own personnel to provide
clinical sales support activities as well as an internal technical and customer
service function, depot maintenance and service and all logistics and
distribution services for the Medivators/Olympus customer base. This existing
and fully developed infrastructure will continue to be a critical factor in our
new direct sales and service strategy. During fiscal 2006, we incurred $806,000
to develop our direct field sales and service organization in preparation for
the August 2, 2006 implementation of our new direct sales and service strategy.  

  During the seven-year
period following the expiration of the distribution agreement with Olympus on
August 1, 2006, Olympus will have the option to provide certain ongoing support
functions to its existing customer base of Medivators products, subject to the
terms and conditions of the agreement. In addition, Olympus may continue to
purchase from Minntech for resale in connection with such support functions,
Medivators accessories, consumables, and replacement and repair parts, as well
as Rapicide     disinfectant. 

45     

20.          Quarterly Results of Operations
(unaudited)   

  The following is a
summary of the quarterly results of operations for the years ended July 31,
2006 and 2005:  

(1)              The summation of quarterly earnings
per share does not necessarily equal the fiscal year earnings per share due   

46     

to rounding.  

  (2)              C  ertain distribution and warehouse expenses of Crosstex
have been reclassified from amounts previously reported in our quarterly Form
10-Q s to conform with the accounting policies of Cantel which require such
costs to be classified as cost of sales. These reclassifications affect cost of
sales, gross profit and general and adminstrative expenses of our Dental segment,
and therefore our consolidated amounts, and amounted to approximately $183,000,
$187,000 and $189,000 for our first, second and third quarters of fiscal 2006,
respectively.  

   21.          Legal
Proceedings   

  In the normal course of
business, we are subject to pending and threatened legal actions. It is our
policy to accrue for amounts related to these legal matters if it is probable
that a liability has been incurred and an amount of anticipated exposure can be
reasonably estimated.  

  On
January 27, 2006, the United States District Court, District of Minnesota,
granted Minntech s Motion for Summary Judgment in the previously reported
antitrust lawsuit commenced by HDC Medical, Inc. in November 2003. As a result
of the ruling, the complaint against Minntech, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Cantel, has been dismissed. In March 2006, HDC filed a Notice of Appeal with
respect to the court s ruling for Summary Judgment and in April 2006, HDC filed
its Brief and Addendum in support of its appeal. Minntech filed its
Brief in response to the appeal on May 24, 2006 and HDC submitted a Reply Brief
on June 7, 2006. Oral argument before the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals
in St. Louis is scheduled for October 19, 2006. We do not expect
the Court to render a decision on HDC s appeal prior to December
2006.  

  In
July 2006, we received a letter from the  Sellers  of Biolab Equipment Ltd.
claiming that the Contingent Payment under the Biolab Stock Purchase Agreement
is payable to the Sellers but providing virtually no support for their position.
We responded by stating that the claim has absolutely no merit but that a
formal analysis with respect to fiscal 2006 could not be provided until the
completion of our year-end financial statements. In October 2006, the Sellers
sent a letter to us claiming that the Contingent Payment, as well as related
incentive compensation payments to two of the Sellers under their employment
agreements, has been fully earned. Although the Sellers provided an analysis
purportedly supporting their position, we believe that the analysis is
erroneous and the claim has no merit whatsoever.  We advised the Sellers of our position and
within the next few weeks will deliver to the Sellers the formal calculations
required under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement. Although we hope that
this matter will be dropped following the Sellers  receipt of such
calculations, there can be no assurance in that regard. If we cannot amicably
resolve this matter, the Sellers can commence an arbitration proceeding under
the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement. The maximum Contingent Payment and
incentive compensation that could be earned under the Stock Purchase Agreement
and related employment agreements of two of the Sellers (one of whom remains an
employee of the Company) are approximately $3,000,000 and $600,000,
respectively.  

47     

CANTEL
MEDICAL CORP.   

  SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  

(1)              Includes $145,000 recorded in
connection with the purchase accounting for the Biolab, Mar Cor, Dyped and
Saf-T-Pak acquisitions, and $359,000 charged to expense during fiscal 2004.  

  (2)              The significant reduction in
additions in fiscal 2005, as compared with fiscal 2004 and 2003, was primarily
due to the collection of several large delinquent receivables, which had been
reserved in past fiscal years.  

  (3)              Includes the write-off of a
$400,000 receivable that existed at the date of the Minntech acquisition on
September 7, 2001.  

  (4)              Includes $100,000 recorded in
connection with the purchase accounting for the Crosstex and Fluid Solutions
acquisitions, and $130,000 charged to expenses during fiscal 2006.  

48  

<EX-3.(M)>
 2
 a06-21307_2ex3dm.htm
 EX-3

EXHIBIT
3(m)   

CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT  

OF
  CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION   

OF
  CANTEL MEDICAL CORP.   

Adopted
  in accordance with the provisions   

of
  Section 242 of the General   

Corporation
  Law of the State of Delaware   

We, James P.
Reilly, President, and Eric W. Nodiff, Secretary of Cantel Medical Corp., a
corporation existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, do hereby certify
as follows:  

  FIRST:  That the Certificate of Incorporation of said
corporation has been amended as follows:  

  By striking out
the first sentence of Article FOURTH, up to the colon, as it now exists and
inserting in lieu and instead thereof the following:  

   FOURTH: The total
number of shares of all classes of stock that the Corporation shall have
authority to issue is Thirty One Million (31,000,000), of which Thirty Million
(30,000,000) shall be shares of Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share, and
One Million (1,000,000) shall be shares of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per
share, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative,
participating, optional or other special qualifications, limitations or
restrictions thereof are as follows:   

  SECOND:  That such amendment has been duly adopted in
accordance with the provisions of Section 242(b)(1) of the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware by the affirmative vote of the holders of a
majority of the outstanding common stock entitled to vote thereon at a meeting
of holders of common stock.  

  IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, we have signed the Certificate this 21  st  day of December, 2005. 

CANTEL MEDICAL CORP.  

/s/ James P. Reilly  

James P. Reilly, President  

ATTEST:  

/s/ Eric W. Nodiff  

Eric W. Nodiff, Secretary  

</EX-3.(M)>

<EX-21>
 3
 a06-21307_2ex21.htm
 EX-21

EXHIBIT 21   

   CANTEL MEDICAL CORP.   

   Subsidiaries of Registrant   

Carsen Group Inc. 

(Amalgamated under the laws of  

Ontario, Canada)  

Minntech Corporation  

(Incorporated under the laws of  

Minnesota)  

Minntech B.V.  

(Incorporated under the laws of  

The Netherlands)  

Minntech Japan K.K.  

(Incorporated under the laws of  

Japan)  

Biolab Equipment Ltd.  

(Amalgamated under the laws of  

Ontario, Canada)  

Mar Cor Purification, Inc.  

(Incorporated under the laws of  

Pennsylvania)  

Saf-T-Pak, Inc.  

(Incorporated under the laws of  

Canada)  

Crosstex International, Inc.  

(Incorporated under the laws of  

New York)  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 a06-21307_2ex23.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit
23   

  Consent of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

  We consent to the
incorporation by reference in the Cantel Medical Corp. Registration Statement Form
S-3 No. 333-129053 and related Prospectus and Registration Statements (Form S-8
Nos. 333-123037, 333-113277, 33-04495, 333-20819 and 333-57232) of our reports
dated October 12, 2006, with respect to the consolidated financial statements
and schedule of Cantel Medical Corp., Cantel Medical Corp. management s
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Cantel
Medical Corp., included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended
July 31, 2006.  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 a06-21307_2ex31d1.htm
 EX-31

EXHIBIT 31.1   

   CERTIFICATIONS   

  I, James P. Reilly,
President and Chief Executive Officer, certify that:  

  1.                I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form
10-K of Cantel Medical Corp.; 

  2.                                        Based on my knowledge, this report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

  3.                                          Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this  report; 

  4.                                           The
registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15 (e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the registrant
and we have:  

  a)                  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

  b)                 Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

  c)                  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

  d)                 Disclosed
in this report any changes in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5.                                           The
registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

  a)                  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

  b)                 Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial
reporting.  

  Date:  October 16, 2006  

By:  

/s/ James P.
  Reilly  

James P. Reilly,
  President and Chief  

Executive
  Officer (Principal Executive Officer)  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 a06-21307_2ex31d2.htm
 EX-31

EXHIBIT 31.2   

   CERTIFICATIONS   

  I, Craig A. Sheldon, Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, certify that:  

  1.                I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form
10-K of Cantel Medical Corp.; 

  2.                                        Based on my knowledge, this report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

  3.                                          Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this  report; 

  4.                                           The
registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15 (e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the registrant
and we have:  

  a)                  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared;  

  b)                 Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

  c)                  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

  d)                 Disclosed
in this report any changes in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5.                                           The
registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

  a)                  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

  b)                 Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial
reporting.  

  Date:  October 16, 2006  

By:  

/s/ Craig A.
  Sheldon  

Craig A.
  Sheldon, Senior Vice President and  

Chief Financial
  Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 7
 a06-21307_2ex32.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit 32   

  CERTIFICATION 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
(SUBSECTIONS (a) AND (b) OF SECTION 1350, CHAPTER 63 OF 
TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE)  

  Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of Title 18, United
States Code), the undersigned officers of Cantel Medical Corp. (the  Company ),
do hereby certify with respect to the Annual Report of the Company on Form 10-K
for the year ended July 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission  (the  Form 10-K ) that, to
the best of their knowledge:  

  1.    The Form 10-K fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  

  2.    The information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in
all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.  

  Date:  October 16,
2006  

/s/ James P. Reilly 

James P. Reilly  

President and
  Chief Executive Officer  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/ Craig A.
  Sheldon  

Craig A. Sheldon  

Senior Vice
  President and Chief  

Financial
  Officer  

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  

</EX-32>

