<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061204_10-K_edgar_data_351231_0000950134-06-022562_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>610201</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>132625</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>355339</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>23</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-022562.hdr.sgml : 20061204
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061204144400
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-022562
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061204
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061204

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			DAWSON GEOPHYSICAL CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000351231
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	OIL AND GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES [1382]
		IRS NUMBER:				750970548
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			TX
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-10144
		FILM NUMBER:		061253866

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		508 WEST WALL
		STREET 2:		SUITE 800
		CITY:			MIDLAND
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			79701
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9156843000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		508 WEST WALL
		STREET 2:		SUITE 800
		CITY:			MIDLAND
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			79701

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 NLWAxbDbPNSMc+N9ynmY7Uymx9YRF8uH2192ONBDNBVMibXK6czF6E4RRTKj2+KD
 Spoz7SO93N3ECMP2bCjXrA==

 0000950134-06-022562.txt : 20061204

10-K
 1
 d41705e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission File
     No. 0-10144  

DAWSON GEOPHYSICAL
    COMPANY  

Texas  

75-0970548  

(State or other jurisdiction
    of  

(I.R.S. Employer  

incorporation or
    organization)  

Identification
    No.)   

508 West Wall, Suite 800, Midland, Texas 79701 

(Principal Executive Office) 

Telephone Number: 432-684-3000 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

None 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

Title of Each Class  

Common Stock,
    $.33 1 / 3 
    par value

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
    filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
    15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
    preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
    Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rule 12b-2). 

Large Accelerated
    Filer  o      Accelerated
    Filer         Non-Accelerated
    Filer  o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes  o      No   

As of March 31, 2006, the aggregate market value of Dawson
    Geophysical Company common stock, par value
    $0.33 1 / 3 
    per share, held by non-affiliates (based upon the closing
    transaction price on Nasdaq) was approximately $192,095,255.

On November 24, 2006, there were 7,550,244 shares of
    Dawson Geophysical Company Common stock,
    $0.33 1 / 3 
    par value, outstanding.

As used in this report, the terms  we, 
     our,   us,   Dawson  and the
     Company  refer to Dawson Geophysical Company unless
    the context indicates otherwise.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the Registrant s Proxy Statement for its 2006
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on January 23,
    2007, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page 

PART I   

Item 1.  

Business  

2

Item 1A.  

Risk
    Factors  

7

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff
    Comments  

10

Item 2.  

Properties  

10

Item 3.  

Legal
    Proceedings  

10

Item 4.  

Submission of
    Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

10

PART II   

Item 5.  

Market for Our
    Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters  

10

Item 6.  

Selected Financial
    Data  

11

Item 7.  

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  

11

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

17

Item 8.  

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  

17

Item 9.  

Changes in and
    Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
    Disclosure  

17

Item 9A.  

Controls and
    Procedures  

18

Item 9B.  

Other
    Information  

18

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors and
    Executive Officers of the Registrant  

18

Item 11.  

Executive
    Compensation  

18

Item 12.  

Security Ownership
    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  

19

Item 13.  

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions  

19

Item 14.  

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services  

19

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits, Financial
    Statement Schedules and Reports on
     Form 8-K   

19

Signatures  

20

Index to Financial
    Statements  

F-1

Index to
    Exhibits 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
     Certification of CEO Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)    
     Certification of CFO Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)    
     Certification of CEO Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b)    
     Certification of CFO Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b)    

1

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY  

FORM 10-K  
    For the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2006  

DISCLOSURE
    REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

All statements other than statements of historical fact included
    in this
     Form 10-K, 
    including without limitation statements under
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations  and
     Business  regarding technological advancements and
    our financial position, business strategy and plans and
    objectives of our management for future operations, are
    forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
     Exchange Act ). When used in this
     Form 10-K, 
    words such as  anticipate ,  believe ,
     estimate ,  expect ,  intend  and
    similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management,
    identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking
    statements are based on the beliefs of our management, as well
    as, assumptions made by and information currently available to
    management. Actual results could differ materially from those
    contemplated by the forward-looking statements as a result of
    certain factors, including but not limited to dependence upon
    energy industry spending, the volatility of oil and gas prices,
    weather interruptions, managing growth, inability to obtain land
    access rights of way, and the availability of capital resources.
    See  Risk Factors  for more information on these and
    other factors. These forward-looking statements reflect our
    current views with respect to future events and are subject to
    these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to
    our operations, results of operations, growth strategies and
    liquidity. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking
    statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf
    are expressly qualified in their entirety by this paragraph. We
    assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking
    statements.

Part I  

Item 1.      

BUSINESS   

General  

Dawson Geophysical Company is the leading provider of onshore
    seismic data acquisition services in the lower 48 United States
    as measured by the number of active data acquisition crews.
    Founded in 1952, we acquire and process
     2-D, 
     3-D,  and
    multi-component seismic data for our clients, ranging from major
    oil and gas companies to independent oil and gas operators, as
    well as, providers of multi-client data libraries. Our clients
    rely on seismic data to identify areas where subsurface
    conditions are favorable for the accumulation of hydrocarbons
    and to optimize the development and production of hydrocarbon
    reservoirs. During fiscal 2006, substantially all of our
    revenues were derived from
     3-D  seismic
    data acquisition operations.

As of September 30, 2006, we operated twelve
     3-D  seismic
    data acquisition crews in the lower 48 states of the United
    States and a seismic data processing center. We market and
    supplement our services from our headquarters in Midland, Texas
    and from additional offices in Houston, Denver and Oklahoma
    City. Our geophysicists perform data processing in our Midland
    and Houston offices and our field operations are supported from
    our field office facility in Midland. The results of a seismic
    survey conducted for a client belong to that client. To avoid
    potential conflicts of interest with our clients, we do not
    acquire seismic data for our own account nor do we participate
    in oil and gas ventures.

Since 2003, higher commodity prices have led to a significant
    increase in the level of spending for domestic exploration and
    development of oil and natural gas reserves. This resulted in
    greater demand for newly-acquired seismic data by many oil and
    gas companies. These factors and changes in the competitive
    landscape in our market in 2003 enabled us to expand our data
    acquisition and processing capacity by adding new personnel with
    technical and operational expertise to our existing highly
    skilled workforce. We believe these additions fortified our
    position as the leading provider of onshore seismic data
    acquisition services in the United States and resulted in
    increased market share in terms of the number of active crews
    operating. We accelerated this expansion during fiscal 2004 with
    the addition of three data acquisition crews, increased
    recording capacity company-wide and improvements to our data
    processing center. We continued this growth in 2005 with the
    addition of two seismic data acquisition

2

Table of Contents   

crews, as well as, increased channel count. We added our twelfth
    data acquisition crew in June, 2006 and we provisionally fielded
    a thirteenth crew in October 2006. These expansions were in
    response to continued demand for our high-resolution
     3-D  seismic
    services as well as our clients  recognition of our
    technical and operational expertise despite recent fluctuations
    in oil and natural gas prices.

Business
    Strategy  

Our strategy is to maintain our leadership position in the
    U.S. onshore market. Key elements of our strategy include:

Attracting and retaining skilled and experienced personnel for
    our data acquisition and processing operations;

Providing integrated in-house services necessary in each phase
    of seismic data acquisition and processing, including project
    design, land access permitting, surveying and related support
    functions as well as continuing the enhancement of our in-house
    health, safety and environmental program;

Maintaining the focus of our operations solely on the domestic
    onshore seismic market;

Continuing to operate with conservative financial discipline;

Updating our capabilities to incorporate advances in geophysical
    and supporting technologies; and

Acquiring equipment to expand the recording channel capacity on
    each of our existing crews and equipping additional crews as
    customer demand dictates.

Business
    Description  

Geophysical Services Overview.   Our business
    consists of the acquisition and processing of seismic data to
    produce an image of the earth s subsurface. The seismic
    method involves the recording of reflected acoustic or sonic
    waves from below the ground. In our operations, we introduce
    acoustic energy into the ground by using an acoustic energy
    source, usually large vibrating machines or occasionally through
    the detonation of dynamite. We then record the subsequent
    reflected energy, or echoes, with recording devices placed along
    the earth s surface. These recording devices, or geophones,
    are placed on the ground in groups of six or more and connected
    together as a single recording channel. We generally use
    multiple recording channels in our seismic surveys. Additional
    recording channels enhance the clarity of the seismic survey
    much in the same way as additional pixels add resolution to
    televisions and computer monitors.

We are able to collect seismic data using either
     2-D  or
     3-D  methods.
    The  2-D 
    method involves the collection of seismic data in a linear
    fashion thus generating a single plane of subsurface seismic
    data. Recent technological advances in seismic equipment and
    computing allow us to economically acquire and process data by
    placing large numbers of energy sources and recording channels
    over a broad area. The industry refers to the technique of broad
    distribution of energy sources and recording channels as the
     3-D  seismic
    method. The
     3-D  method
    produces an immense volume of seismic data which produces more
    precise images of the earth s subsurface. Geophysicists use
    computers to interpret
     3-D  seismic
    data volumes, generate geologic models of the earth s
    subsurface, and identify subsurface anomalies which are
    favorable for the accumulation of hydrocarbons.

3-D  seismic
    data are used in the exploration for new reserves and enable oil
    and gas companies to better delineate existing fields and to
    augment their reservoir management techniques. Benefits of
    incorporating high resolution
     3-D  seismic
    surveys into exploration and development programs include
    reducing drilling risk, decreasing oil and gas finding costs and
    increasing the efficiencies of reservoir location, delineation
    and management. In order to meet the requirements necessary to
    fully realize the benefits of
     3-D  seismic
    data, there is an increasing demand for improved data quality
    with greater subsurface resolution. We are prepared to meet such
    demands with the implementation of improved techniques and
    evolving technology. One such technique is better survey design
    integrating a greater number of recording channels, more dense
    energy source distribution and improved seismic data processing
    technologies. Our geophysicists perform these design tasks.

3

Table of Contents   

We continue to pursue the use of multi-component seismic
    technologies, which utilize shear wave seismic data. Shear waves
    vary from the acoustic wave generally used in seismic surveys in
    the manner in which they travel through the earth. The use of
    shear waves in seismic surveys is relatively new in our
    industry, and it is believed that the analysis of shear wave
    data may allow for a more detailed model of the earth s
    subsurface. Shear wave seismic data are acquired using both
     2-D  and
     3-D  methods.
    We have been involved in several shear wave projects. Our
    equipment includes energy sources and geophones capable of
    generating and recording shear waves. During fiscal 2006 we
    completed the data acquisition phase of a large
     3-D 
    multi-component project in West Texas utilizing both shear wave
    energy sources and geophones, our seventh and largest such
    project.

Data Acquisition.   The seismic survey begins at
    the time a client requests that we formulate a proposal to
    acquire seismic data on its behalf. Geophysicists then assist
    the client in designing the specifications of the proposed
     3-D  survey.
    If the client accepts our proposal, permit agents then obtain
    access rights of way from surface and mineral estate owners or
    lessees where the survey is to be conducted.

Utilizing electronic surveying equipment, survey personnel
    precisely locate the energy source and receiver positions from
    which the seismic data are collected. We primarily use vibrator
    energy sources which are mounted on vehicles, the majority of
    which weighs 62,000 pounds each, to generate seismic energy, but
    occasionally we detonate dynamite charges placed in drill holes
    below the earth s surface. We use third party contractors
    for the drilling of holes and the purchasing, handling and
    disposition of dynamite charges.

We began fiscal 2004 with an operating capacity of six
    land-based seismic data acquisition crews with an aggregate
    recording channel count of approximately 25,000 and 52 vibrator
    energy source units. During fiscal 2004, we added three seismic
    data acquisition crews with an increase in channel count to
    approximately 38,000 channels and 70 vibrator energy source
    units. At fiscal year end 2005, we operated eleven crews, 75
    vibrator energy source units, and had capacity in excess of
    58,000 recording channels. As a result of our continued
    expansion, as of September 30, 2006, we operated twelve
    crews, 95 vibrator energy source units, and had capacity in
    excess of 70,000 recording channels, any of which may be
    configured to meet the demands of specific survey designs. We
    provisionally fielded a thirteenth crew in October, 2006. We
    intend to deploy this crew from time to time as demand and
    opportunity arise. Each crew consists of approximately 40 to 80
    technicians, 25 vehicles with off-road capabilities, 60,000
    geophones, a seismic recording system, energy sources,
    electronic cables and a variety of other equipment.

At fiscal year end 2005 we operated eleven Input/Output System
    Two   
    recording systems, six with radio capability and five
    cable-based systems. During fiscal 2006, we added our twelfth
    data acquisition crew equipped with a 5000 channel Aram ARIES
    cable based recording system. In September 2006, we added an
    additional 5000 channel Aram ARIES recording system which
    replaced an Input/Output System Two on an existing crew. All of
    our recording systems utilize similar type geophones and record
    equivalent seismic information but vary in the manner by which
    seismic data are transferred to the central recording unit.

As of September 30, 2006, we operated twelve seismic data
    acquisition crews. In October 2006, we provisionally fielded a
    thirteenth crew equipped with an existing Input/Output System
    Two cable based system. Of the thirteen crews in operation, six
    are equipped with Input/Output System Two RSR radio based
    recording systems, four with Input/Output System Two cable based
    recording systems, two with Aram ARIES cable based recording
    systems, and one WesternGeco (subsidiary of Schlumberger) Q-Land
    recording system under an agreement described below.

During fiscal 2006, we entered into an agreement with
    WesternGeco, a subsidiary of Schlumberger, to provide Q-Land
    seismic data acquisition services in the Lower 48 United States.
    The Q-Land system is a unique integrated acquisition and
    processing system that is producing superior imaging results
    throughout the Middle East and North Africa. The Q-Land system
    uses 30,000 channels of finely spaced point-receivers to
    correctly sample both signal and noise. By removing noise, the
    resolution of the subsurface is dramatically increased. Under
    the terms of the agreement, the Company will provide crew
    personnel, energy source units, necessary vehicles, land access
    permitting and surveying. WesternGeco will provide survey
    design, the seismic recording system with operators, and all
    Q-Land data processing services. Both companies will share
    marketing services. The Company deployed the Q-Land recording
    system on an existing crew and is currently conducting
    operations in West Texas on a multi-client

4

Table of Contents   

data library program for WesternGeco. The Company will continue
    to deploy the Q-Land system on an existing crew or additional
    crews as demand for the technology dictates.

Client demand for more recording channels continues to increase
    as the industry strives for improved data quality with greater
    subsurface resolution. We believe our ability to deploy a large
    number of recording channels provides us with the competitive
    advantages of operational versatility and increased
    productivity, in addition to improved data quality. All of our
    crews are capable of recording in excess of 3,000 channels with
    the majority in excess of 5,000 channels.

Data Processing.   We currently operate a
    computer center located in Midland, Texas and provide additional
    processing services through our Houston office. Such data
    processing primarily involves the enhancement of seismic data by
    improving reflected signal resolution, removing ambient noise
    and establishing proper spatial relationships of geological
    features. The data are then formatted in such a manner that
    computer graphic technology may be employed for examination and
    interpretation of the data by the user.

We continue to improve data processing efficiency and accuracy
    with the addition of improved processing software and high-speed
    computer technology. We purchase, develop or lease, under
    non-exclusive licensing arrangements, seismic data processing
    software.

Our computer center processes seismic data collected by our
    crews, as well as by other geophysical contractors. In addition,
    we reprocess previously recorded seismic data using current
    technology to enhance the data quality. Our processing contracts
    may be awarded jointly with, or independently from, data
    acquisition services. Data processing services comprise a small
    portion of our overall revenues.

Integrated Services.   We maintain integrated
    in-house operations necessary to the development and completion
    of seismic surveys. Our experienced personnel have the
    capability to conduct or supervise the seismic survey design,
    permitting, surveying, data acquisition and processing functions
    for each seismic program. In-house support operations include a
    health, safety and environmental program as well as facilities
    for automotive repair, automotive paint and body repair,
    electronics repair, electrical engineering and software
    development. In addition, we maintain a fleet of tractor
    trailers to transport our seismic acquisition equipment to our
    survey sites. We believe that maintaining these functions
    in-house contributes to better quality control and improved
    efficiency in our operations. Our clients generally undertake to
    provide their own interpretation of the seismic data provided by
    us.

Equipment
    Acquisition and Capital Expenditures  

We monitor and evaluate advances in geophysical technology and
    commit capital funds to purchase equipment we deem most
    promising in order to maintain our competitive position.
    Purchasing new assets and continually upgrading capital assets
    requires a continuing commitment to capital spending. For fiscal
    year 2006, we made capital expenditures of $40,377,000, in part
    to complete the outfitting of our twelfth data acquisition crew
    fielded in June 2006 equipped with a 5,000 channel Aram ARIES
    recording system, to continue expansion of existing crews, to
    add energy source units, and to replace an Input/Output
    System II recording system on an existing crew with an Aram
    ARIES recording system in September of 2006. The Board of
    Directors approved an initial fiscal 2007 capital budget of
    $20,000,000, of which, $4,900,000 was used as part of the
    purchase of the second Aram ARIES recording system and captured
    as an increase to the fiscal 2006 capital budget due to earlier
    than anticipated delivery and deployment of the system. The
    balance of the fiscal 2007 capital budget will be used to add to
    the Company s energy source fleet, make technical
    improvements in various phases of the Company s operations,
    and meet maintenance capital requirements. These additions will
    allow the Company to maintain its competitive position as it
    responds to client desire for higher resolution subsurface
    images.

Clients  

Our services are marketed by supervisory and executive personnel
    who contact clients to determine geophysical needs and respond
    to client inquiries regarding the availability of crews or
    processing schedules. These contacts are based principally upon
    professional relationships developed over a number of years.

Our clients range from major oil companies to small independent
    oil and gas operators and also include providers of multi-client
    data libraries. The services we provide to our clients vary
    according to the size and needs of

5

Table of Contents   

each client. We believe that the loss of any one of our clients
    would not have a material impact on our business. During 2006,
    sales to our two largest clients represented 24% and 11% of our
    revenues, respectively. The remaining balance of our fiscal 2006
    revenue was derived from varied clients and none represented 10%
    or more of our fiscal 2006 revenues. Although 24% of our fiscal
    2006 revenues were derived from one client, our evaluation
    indicates that our relationship is well founded for continued
    contractual commitments for the foreseeable future in multiple
    producing basins across the lower 48 states. The client
    representing 11% of our fiscal 2006 revenues represented 15% of
    our fiscal 2005 revenues and acts as an agent for other entities
    that are the actual purchasers of our services. Sales to each of
    the actual purchasers represented less than 10% of our total
    revenues. Because of our relatively large client base, our
    largest clients have varied from year to year. Current demand
    for our services indicates that the loss of any single client
    would not have a long term negative effect on our business.

In order to avoid potential conflicts of interest with our
    clients, we do not acquire data for our own account or for
    future sale, maintain any multi-client data library or
    participate in oil and gas ventures. The results of a seismic
    survey conducted for a client belong to that client. It is also
    our policy that none of our officers, directors or employees
    participate in any oil and gas venture. All of our clients 
    information is maintained in strictest confidence.

Contracts  

Our data acquisition services are conducted under master service
    contracts with our clients. These master service contracts
    define certain obligations for us and for our clients. A
    supplemental agreement setting forth the terms of a specific
    project, which may be cancelled by either party on short notice,
    is entered into for every data acquisition project. The
    supplemental agreements are either  turnkey 
    agreements that provide for a fixed fee to be paid to us for
    each unit of data acquired, or  term  agreements that
    provide for a fixed hourly, daily or monthly fee during the term
    of the project or projects. Turnkey agreements generally provide
    us more profit potential, but involve more risks because of the
    potential of crew downtime or operational delays. We attempt to
    negotiate on a project by project basis, some level of weather
    downtime protection within the turnkey agreements. Under the
    term agreements, we forego an increased profit potential in
    exchange for a more consistent revenue stream with improved
    protection from crew downtime or operational delays.

We currently operate under both turnkey and term supplemental
    agreements.

Competition  

The acquisition and processing of seismic data for the oil and
    gas industry is a highly competitive business in the United
    States. Contracts for such services generally are awarded on the
    basis of price quotations, crew experience and availability of
    crews to perform in a timely manner, although factors other than
    price, such as crew safety performance history, technological
    and operational expertise are often determinative. Our
    competitors include companies with financial resources that are
    significantly greater than our own as well as companies of
    comparable and smaller size. Our primary competitors are Veritas
    DGC, Petroleum Geo Services, Geokinetics, Global Geophysical
    Services, and Tidelands Geophysical.

Employees  

As of October 20, 2006, we employed approximately 1023
    persons, of which 932 were engaged in providing energy sources
    and acquiring data. With respect to the remainder of our
    employees, 12 are engaged in data processing, 19 are
    administrative personnel, 52 are engaged in equipment
    maintenance and transport and 8 are officers. Of the employees
    listed above, 9 are geophysicists. Our employees are not
    represented by a labor union. We believe we have good relations
    with our employees.

Available
    Information  

All of our Annual Reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and all amendments to those reports, filed with or furnished to
    the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) on or
    after May 9, 1995 are available free of charge through our
    internet website, www.dawson3d.com, as soon as reasonably
    practical after we have electronically filed such material with,
    or furnished it to, the SEC. Information

6

Table of Contents   

contained on our internet website is not incorporated by
    reference in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site containing
    reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
    filed electronically at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy
    this information, for a copying fee, at the SEC s Public
    Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
    20549. Please call the SEC at
     1-800-SEC-0330 
    to obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
    Room.

Item 1A.      

RISK
    FACTORS   

An investment in our common stock is subject to a number of
    risks discussed below. You should carefully consider these
    discussions of risk and the other information included in this
     Form 10-K. 
    If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our
    business, financial condition or results of operations could be
    materially adversely affected. 

If oil
    and gas prices or the level of capital expenditures by oil and
    gas companies were to decline, demand for our services would
    decline and our results of operations would be adversely
    affected.   

Demand for our services depends upon the level of spending by
    oil and gas companies for exploration, production, development
    and field management activities, which activities depend in part
    on oil and gas prices. Significant fluctuations in oil and gas
    exploration activities and commodity prices have adversely
    affected the demand for our services and our results of
    operations in years past and would do so again if prices for oil
    and gas were to decline. Because a greater portion of our
    clients are in the business of exploring for and producing
    natural gas, a sustained significant decline in the price of
    natural gas could have a more adverse affect on demand for our
    services. In particular, we incurred losses in fiscal years 2000
    through 2003 as a result of decreased demand for seismic
    services during these years due to the effects of lower oil and
    gas prices. While in recent years the price of oil and natural
    gas has been historically high and exploration activities have
    been strong, there can be no assurance that the current level of
    energy prices will be sustained or that exploration and
    development activities by our clients will continue to be
    strong. Any significant decline in oil and gas related spending
    on behalf of our clients could cause us to alter our capital
    spending plans and would have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations. Additionally, increases in oil and gas
    prices may not increase demand for our products and services or
    otherwise have a positive effect on our results of operations or
    financial condition.

Factors affecting the price of oil and gas include:

level of demand for oil and gas;

worldwide political, military and economic conditions, including
    the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
    to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil;

level of oil and gas production;

government policies regarding the exploration for, and
    production and development of, oil and gas reserves;

level of taxation relating to the energy industry, including
    taxation of consumption of energy sources; and

weather conditions.

The markets for oil and gas have historically been volatile and
    are likely to continue to be so in the future.

The
    high fixed costs of our operations could result in operating
    losses.   

Our business has high fixed costs.   As a
    result, any significant downtime or low productivity caused by
    reduced demand, weather interruptions, equipment failures,
    permit delays or other causes could adversely affect our results
    of operations.

Our
    revenues are subject to fluctuations that are beyond our control
    which could adversely affect our results of operations in any
    financial period.   

Our operating results vary in material respects from quarter to
    quarter and will continue to do so in the future. Factors that
    cause variations include the timing of the receipt and
    commencement of contracts for data acquisition,

7

Table of Contents   

permit delays, weather delays and crew productivity. Combined
    with our high fixed costs, these revenue fluctuations could
    produce unexpected adverse results of operations in any fiscal
    period.

Our
    operations are subject to weather conditions which could
    adversely affect our results of operations.   

Our seismic data acquisition operations could be adversely
    affected by inclement weather conditions. Delays associated with
    weather conditions could adversely affect our results of
    operations. See  Business   Contracts. 

Our
    operations are subject to delays related to obtaining land
    access rights of way from third parties which could affect our
    results of operations.   

Our seismic data acquisition operations could be adversely
    affected by our inability to obtain timely right of way usage
    from both public and private land
     and/or 
    mineral owners. Delays associated with obtaining such rights of
    way could negatively affect our results of operations.

We
    face intense competition in our business that could result in
    downward pricing pressure and the loss of market
    share.   

The acquisition and processing of seismic data for the oil and
    gas industry is a highly competitive business in the United
    States. Some of our competitors have financial resources that
    are significantly greater than our own. Competition from these
    and other competitors could result in downward pricing pressure
    and the loss of market share. See  Business  
    Competition. 

If we
    do not manage our recent growth effectively our results of
    operations could be affected.   

We have experienced substantial growth during the last three
    fiscal years, adding seven seismic data acquisition crews during
    this period. This growth has presented a challenge to our
    systems, processes, resources, personnel, management and other
    infrastructure and support mechanisms. If we do not manage these
    growth challenges effectively, our profitability and results of
    operations could be adversely affected, our management resources
    may be diverted and our future growth impeded.

We may
    be unable to attract and retain skilled and technically
    knowledgeable employees, which could adversely affect our
    business.   

Our success depends upon attracting and retaining highly skilled
    professionals and other technical personnel. A number of our
    employees are highly skilled scientists and highly trained
    technicians, and our failure to continue to attract and retain
    such individuals could adversely affect our ability to compete
    in the seismic services industry. We may confront significant
    and potentially adverse competition for these skilled and
    technically knowledgeable personnel, particularly during periods
    of increased demand for seismic services. None of our employees
    are under employment contracts and we have no key man insurance.

Capital
    requirements for our operations are large. If we are unable to
    finance these requirements, our ability to continue our
    expansion and maintain our profitability could be
    affected.   

Our sources of working capital are limited. We have historically
    funded our working capital requirements with cash generated from
    operations, cash reserves and short term borrowings from
    commercial banks. In the past, we have also funded our capital
    expenditures and other financing needs through public equity
    offerings. Our working capital requirements continue to
    increase, primarily due to the expansion of our infrastructure.
    If we were to expand our operations at a rate exceeding
    operating cash flow, or if current demand or pricing of
    geophysical services were to decrease substantially, additional
    financing could be required. If we were not able to obtain such
    financing when needed, our failure could have a negative impact
    on our ability to pursue our expansion and maintain our
    profitability. See  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources. 

8

Table of Contents   

Technological
    change in our business creates risks of technological
    obsolescence and requirements for future capital expenditures.
    If we are unable to keep up with these technological advances,
    we may not be able to compete effectively.   

Seismic data acquisition and data processing technologies
    historically have progressed rather rapidly and we expect this
    progression to continue. Our strategy is to regularly upgrade
    our data acquisition and processing equipment to maintain our
    competitive position. However, due to potential advances in
    technology and the related costs associated with such
    technological advances, we might not be able to fulfill this
    strategy, thus possibly affecting our ability to compete.

We
    operate under hazardous conditions that subject us to risk of
    damage to property or personal injuries and may interrupt our
    business.   

Our business is subject to the general risks inherent in
    land-based seismic data acquisition activities. Our activities
    are often conducted in remote areas under extreme weather and
    other dangerous conditions. These operations are subject to
    risks of injury to personnel and equipment. Our crews are
    mobile, and equipment and personnel are subject to vehicular
    accidents. We use diesel fuel which is classified by the
    U.S. Department of Transportation as a hazardous material.
    These risks could cause us to experience equipment losses,
    injuries to our personnel and interruptions in our business.

In addition, we could be subject to personal injury or real
    property damage claims in the normal operation of our business.
    Such claims may not be covered under the indemnification
    provisions in our master service agreements to the extent that
    the damage was due to our negligence, gross negligence or
    intentional misconduct.

We do not carry insurance against certain risks that we could
    experience, including business interruption resulting from
    equipment losses or weather delays. We obtain insurance against
    certain property and personal casualty risks and other risks
    when such insurance is available and when our management
    considers it advisable to do so. Such coverage is not always
    available or applicable and, when available, is subject to
    unilateral cancellation by the insuring companies on very short
    notice.

Our
    industry is subject to governmental regulation which may
    adversely affect our future operations.   

Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and
    local laws and regulations, including laws and regulations
    relating to protection of the environment and archeological
    sites. We are required to expend financial and managerial
    resources to comply with such laws and related permit
    requirements in our operations, and we anticipate that we will
    continue to be required to do so in the future. The fact that
    such laws or regulations change frequently makes it impossible
    for us to predict the cost or impact of such laws and
    regulations on our future operations. The adoption of laws and
    regulations that have the effect of reducing or curtailing
    exploration and production activities by energy companies could
    also adversely affect our operations by reducing the demand for
    our services.

Certain
    provisions of our charter and bylaws and our shareholder rights
    plan may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even
    in situations that may be viewed as desirable by
    shareholders.   

Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that
    authorize the issuance of preferred stock and establish advance
    notice requirements for director nominations and actions to be
    taken at shareholder meetings. These provisions could discourage
    or impede a tender offer, proxy contest or other similar
    transaction involving control of us, even in situations that may
    be viewed as desirable by our shareholders. In addition, we have
    adopted a shareholder rights plan that would likely discourage a
    hostile attempt to acquire control of us.

Failure
    to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with
    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material
    adverse effect on our stock price.   

If, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our
    internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented
    or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that
    we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective
    internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with
    Section 404 of the

9

Table of Contents   

Sarbanes-Oxley 
    Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal
    control environment could have a material adverse effect on the
    price of our common stock.

Item 1B.      

UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS   

None.

Item 2.      

PROPERTIES   

Our principal facilities are summarized in the table below.

Owned or 

Building Area 

Location 

Leased 

Purpose 

Square Feet 

Midland, TX

Leased

Executive offices and data
    processing

29,960

Midland, TX

Owned

Field office

58,472

Equipment fabrication

Maintenance and repairs

We have operating leases in Houston, Denver and Oklahoma City
    for general office space. In November we executed an operating
    lease for general office purposes, maintenance and repairs in
    Lyon Township, Michigan.

Our operations are limited to one industry segment and the
    United States.

Item 3.      

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS   

From time to time we are a party to various legal proceedings
    arising in the ordinary course of business. Although we cannot
    predict the outcomes of any such legal proceedings, our
    management believes that the resolution of pending legal actions
    will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Item 4.      

SUBMISSION
    OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

No matter has been submitted during the fourth quarter of the
    2006 fiscal year to a vote of our security holders, through the
    solicitation of proxies or otherwise. However, please refer to
    our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting to be held on
    January 23, 2007 (the  Proxy Statement ), filed
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission, notifying security
    holders as to the election of Directors, adopting the Dawson
    Geophysical Company 2006 Stock and Performance Incentive Plan
    and selection of KPMG LLP as our independent registered public
    accounting firm.

Part II  

Item 5.      

MARKET
    FOR OUR COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
    MATTERS   

Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Stock
    Market   
    under the symbol  DWSN.  The table below represents
    the high and low sales prices for the period shown.

10

Table of Contents   

As of November 24, 2006, we had 183 common stockholders of
    record as reported by our transfer agent.

We have not paid cash dividends on our Common Stock since
    becoming a public company and have no plans to do so in the
    foreseeable future.

The following table summarizes certain information regarding
    securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation
    plans as of September 30, 2006.

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

Number of 

Securities Remaining 

Available for 

Number of 

Future Issuance 

Securities to 

Under Equity 

be Issued 

Compensation Plans 

Upon Exercise 

Weighted-Average Exercise 

(Excluding Securities 

of Outstanding 

Price of 

Reflected in 

Plan Category 

Options 

Outstanding Options 

Column (a)) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Equity compensation plans approved
    by security holders

171,250

$

9.12

300,550

Equity compensation plans not
    approved by security holders

Total

171,250

$

9.12

300,550

Item 6.      

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA   

The following selected financial data should be read in
    conjunction with Item 7,  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations , and Dawson Geophysical Company s
    financial statements and related notes included in Item 8,
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data .

In March 2005, we successfully completed a public offering of
    1,800,000 shares of common stock such that weighted average
    equivalent common shares outstanding in 2005 reflect these
    additional shares for part of the year.

Item 7.      

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS   

The following discussion of our financial condition and results
    of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial
    statements and notes to those statements included elsewhere in
    this
     Form 10-K. 
    This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve
    risks and uncertainties. Please see  Risk Factors  and
     Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements 
    elsewhere in this
     Form 10-K. 

Overview  

We are the leading provider of onshore seismic data acquisition
    services in the lower 48 United States as measured by the number
    of active data acquisition crews. Substantially all of our
    revenues are derived from the seismic data acquisition services
    we provide to our clients, mainly domestic oil and gas
    companies. Demand for our

11

Table of Contents   

services depends upon the level of spending by these oil and gas
    companies for exploration, production, development and field
    management activities, which activities depend, in part, on oil
    and natural gas prices. Significant fluctuations in domestic oil
    and natural gas exploration activities and commodity prices have
    affected the demand for our services and our results of
    operations in years past and continue to be the single most
    important factor affecting our business and results of
    operations.

Accordingly, our return to profitability in fiscal 2004 after
    several years of losses was directly related to an increase in
    the level of exploration for domestic oil and natural gas
    reserves by the petroleum industry since 2003. The increased
    level of exploration is a function of higher prices for oil and
    natural gas. As a result of the increase in domestic exploration
    spending, we have experienced an increased demand for our
    seismic data acquisition and processing services. While the
    markets for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile
    and are likely to continue to be so in the future and we can
    make no assurances as to future levels of domestic exploration
    or commodity prices, we believe opportunities exist for us to
    enhance our market position by responding to our client s
    desire for higher resolution subsurface images. In addition, we
    continue to experience high demand for our services despite
    recent fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices.

We continue to focus on increasing the revenues from and
    profitability of our existing crews by upgrading our recording
    capacity, expanding the channel count on existing crews and
    adding to our energy source fleet. While our revenues are mainly
    affected by the level of client demand for our services, our
    revenues are also affected by the pricing for our services that
    we negotiate with our clients and the productivity of our data
    acquisition crews, including factors such as crew downtime
    related to inclement weather, delays in acquiring land access
    permits, or equipment failure. Consequently, our successful
    efforts to negotiate more favorable weather protection
    provisions in our supplemental service agreements, to mitigate
    access permit delays and to improve overall crew productivity
    may contribute to growth in our revenues. Although our clients
    may cancel their supplemental service agreements with us on
    short notice, we believe we currently have a sufficient order
    book to sustain operations at full capacity well into calendar
    2007 with our twelve crews.

Fiscal
    2006 Highlights  

Our financial performance for fiscal 2006 significantly improved
    when compared to our financial performance for fiscal 2005 as a
    result of continuing high demand for our services due to
    increased exploration and development activity by domestic oil
    and gas companies and increases in oil and gas prices. As a
    result of continuing high demand:

We deployed and operated the Company s twelfth data
    acquisition crew equipped with an Aram ARIES recording system in
    June of 2006. We added a second Aram ARIES recording system in
    September.

We continued to experience price improvements and more favorable
    contract terms in our agreements with clients.

Our areas of operations during fiscal 2006 included South Texas,
    California, Utah, West Texas, the Fort Worth Basin of
    Texas, Oklahoma, North Dakota, Wyoming, Arkansas, West Virginia,
    New York, Mississippi, and New Mexico.

We increased channel count in 2006, from approximately 58,000 to
    in excess of 70,000.

We increased the size of the vibrator energy source fleet to
    95 units.

We commenced operations under an agreement with WesternGeco, a
    subsidiary of Schlumberger, to provide Q-Land seismic data
    acquisition services in the Lower 48 United States.

We completed the data acquisition phase of a
     large 3-D 
    multi-component seismic project in West Texas, our seventh such
    project in the last three years.

We joined the Russell 3000 Index.

12

Table of Contents   

Fiscal
    Year Ended September 30, 2006 Versus Fiscal Year Ended
    September 30, 2005  

Operating Revenues.   Our operating revenues
    increased 44% from $116,663,000 in fiscal 2005 to $168,550,000
    in fiscal 2006 as a result of continuing high demand for our
    services. As a result, we were able to field an additional data
    acquisition crew, expand the capabilities of our existing crews,
    obtain price improvements in the markets for our services and
    negotiate favorable contract provisions. We began fiscal 2006
    with eleven data acquisition crews and added our twelfth crew in
    June 2006. Recorded in the fourth quarter revenues are unusually
    high third party charges primarily related to the use of
    helicopter support services, specialized survey technologies,
    and dynamite energy sources all of which are utilized in areas
    with limited access. The increase in these charges was driven by
    our continued geographic expansion in response to increased
    exploration activities in the Appalachian Basin, the Rocky
    Mountains, the Fayetteville Shale, and the Arkoma Basin. We are
    reimbursed for these expenses by our clients.

Operating Costs.   Our operating expenses
    increased 39% from $90,465,000 in fiscal 2005 to $125,848,000 in
    fiscal 2006 primarily due to the full year of service for the
    tenth and eleventh crews fielded in fiscal 2005 and to the
     start-up  and
    ongoing expenses of the twelfth data acquisition crew deployed
    in June 2006. As discussed above, reimbursed expenses have a
    similar impact on operating costs.

General and administrative expenses were 2.9% of revenues in
    fiscal 2006, as compared to 3.9% of revenues in fiscal 2005.
    While the ratio of general and administrative expenses to
    revenue declined in fiscal 2006 due to the increase in revenues,
    the actual dollar amount increased. The increase of $318,000
    from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2006 reflects ongoing expenses
    necessary to support expanded field operations.

We recognized $13,338,000 of depreciation expense in fiscal 2006
    as compared to $8,179,000 in fiscal 2005, reflecting the full
    year of depreciation expense from our fiscal 2005 capital
    expenditures. Our depreciation expense is expected to increase
    in fiscal 2007 as a result of our significant capital
    expenditures in fiscal 2006.

Our total operating costs for fiscal 2006 were $143,994,000, an
    increase of 40% from fiscal 2005 primarily due to the factors
    described above.

Taxes.   Our income tax expense was $9,358,000
    in fiscal 2006 as compared to $4,506,000 in fiscal 2005. The
    increase in expense for 2006 from 2005 is primarily a result of
    our substantial increase in income before income taxes resulting
    in increased federal and state income taxes. Dawson fully
    utilized its federal net operating loss ( NOL )
    carryforwards during 2006 and started remitting regular tax
    reduced by alternative minimum tax ( AMT ) credits.

Fiscal
    Year Ended September 30, 2005 Versus Fiscal Year Ended
    September 30, 2004  

Operating Revenues.   Our operating revenues
    increased 68% from $69,346,000 in fiscal 2004 to $116,663,000 in
    fiscal 2005 as a result of continuing high demand for our
    services. As a result of continuing high demand, we were able to
    field two additional data acquisition crews, obtain price
    improvements in the markets for our services and negotiate
    favorable contract provisions. We began fiscal 2005 with nine
    data acquisition crews. The tenth crew was added in January and
    the eleventh crew was fielded in May 2005.

Operating Costs.   Our operating expenses
    increased 63% from $55,618,000 in fiscal 2004 to $90,465,000 in
    fiscal 2005 primarily due to the
     start-up  and
    ongoing expenses of the two new data acquisition crews added
    during the year and the full year of service for the eighth and
    ninth crews fielded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004.

General and administrative expenses were 3.9% of revenues in
    fiscal 2005, the same as in fiscal 2004. The fact that our
    percentage of general and administrative spending was the same
    as in fiscal 2005 despite the significant increase in our fiscal
    2005 total revenues reflects the increases in these expenses
    necessary to support expanded field operations and to comply
    with Sarbanes-Oxley reporting requirements.

We recognized $8,179,000 of depreciation expense in fiscal 2005
    as compared to $4,653,000 in fiscal 2004, reflecting the full
    year of depreciation expense from our fiscal 2004 capital
    expenditures. Our depreciation expense also increased in fiscal
    2006 as a result of our significant capital expenditures in
    fiscal 2005.

13

Table of Contents   

Our total operating costs for fiscal 2005 were $103,134,000, an
    increase of 64% from fiscal 2004 primarily due to the factors
    described above.

Taxes.   Our income tax expense was $4,506,000
    in fiscal 2005 as compared to an income tax benefit of
    $1,536,000 in fiscal 2004. The fiscal 2005 expense was primarily
    due to recording income tax expense as a result of our continued
    profitability in 2005. The fiscal 2004 tax benefit was primarily
    due to a deferred income tax benefit from the elimination of a
    valuation allowance on our deferred tax asset generated from net
    operating loss carryforwards. The fiscal 2005 current tax
    expense reflects AMT calculated on net income not eligible for
    offset by AMT credit carryforwards. We anticipate we will
    recognize increased income tax expense in future years as we
    fully utilize our NOL carryforwards and AMT credit carryforwards.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

Introduction.   Our principal sources of cash
    are amounts earned from the seismic data acquisition services we
    provide to our clients. Our principal uses of cash are the
    amounts used to provide these services, including expenses
    related to our operations and acquiring new equipment.
    Accordingly, our cash position depends (as do our revenues) on
    the level of demand for our services. Historically, cash
    generated from our operations along with cash reserves and short
    term borrowings from commercial banks have been sufficient to
    fund our working capital requirements, and to some extent, our
    capital expenditures.

Cash Flows.   Net cash provided by operating
    activities was $25,743,000 for fiscal 2006 and $12,300,000 for
    fiscal 2005. These amounts primarily reflect an increase in
    total revenues resulting from our expanded business and increase
    in accounts receivable in excess of payments of accounts payable.

Net cash used in investing activities was $21,031,000 in fiscal
    2006 and $54,431,000 in fiscal 2005. These results primarily
    represent capital expenditures and activity in the short-term
    investment portfolio. Capital expenditures were funded with cash
    generated from operations, short-term investments, proceeds from
    the public stock offering discussed below and in addition during
    fiscal 2005 with cash from our revolving line of credit
    agreement.

Net cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2006 was
    $549,000 representing proceeds from the exercise of stock
    options. In fiscal 2005 net cash provided by financing
    activities of $41,347,000 primarily reflects proceeds from the
    public stock offering.

Capital Expenditures.   For fiscal year 2006, we
    made capital expenditures of $40,377,000, in part to complete
    the outfitting of our twelfth data acquisition crew fielded in
    June 2006 equipped with a 5,000 channel Aram ARIES recording
    system, to continue expansion of existing crews, to add energy
    source units, and to replace an Input/Output System II
    recording system on an existing crew with an Aram ARIES
    recording system in September of 2006. The Board of Directors
    had approved an initial fiscal 2007 capital budget of
    $20,000,000, of which $4,900,000 was used as part of the
    purchase of the second Aram ARIES recording system and captured
    as an increase to the fiscal 2006 capital budget due to earlier
    than anticipated delivery and deployment of the system. The
    balance of the fiscal 2007 capital budget will be used to add to
    the Company s energy source fleet, make technical
    improvements in various phases of the Company s operations,
    and meet maintenance capital requirements. These additions will
    allow the Company to maintain its competitive position as it
    responds to client desire for higher resolution subsurface
    images.

We continually strive to supply our clients with technologically
    advanced  3-D 
    data acquisition recording systems and data processing
    capabilities. We maintain equipment in and out of service in
    anticipation of increased future demand for our services.

Capital Resources.   Historically, we have
    primarily relied on cash generated from operations, cash
    reserves and short term borrowings from commercial banks to fund
    our working capital requirements and, to some extent, capital
    expenditures. We have also funded our capital expenditures and
    other financing needs through public equity offerings. As a
    result of our recent increased capital needs resulting from the
    continued expansion of our business, we obtained a
    $10 million revolving line of credit agreement in December
    2004 and completed a public offering of our common stock in
    March 2005.

14

Table of Contents   

On December 22, 2004, we entered into a revolving line of
    credit loan agreement with Western National Bank under which we
    may borrow, repay and reborrow, from time to time until
    January 18, 2007, up to $10 million. Our obligations
    under this agreement are secured by a security interest in our
    accounts receivable and related collateral. Interest on the
    outstanding amount under the line of credit loan agreement is
    payable monthly at a rate equal to the greater of (i) the
    Prime Rate or (ii) 5.0%. In connection with equipping and
    deploying our eighth and ninth data acquisition crews we
    borrowed $5 million under the loan agreement on
    January 12, 2005, and borrowed the remaining
    $5 million available under the loan agreement on
    February 1, 2005. As of March 31, 2005 we repaid the
    $10 million balance outstanding under the loan agreement
    and the associated interest as a partial use of proceeds from
    our public offering of 1,800,000 shares of our common
    stock. We did not borrow under the loan agreement during the
    remainder of fiscal 2005 or during fiscal 2006. The loan
    agreement contains customary covenants for credit facilities of
    this type, including limitations on distributions and dividends,
    disposition of assets and mergers and acquisitions. We are also
    obligated to meet certain financial covenants under the loan
    agreement, including maintaining a minimum tangible net worth
    (as defined in the loan agreement) of $40 million and
    maintaining specified ratios with respect to cash flow coverage,
    current assets and liabilities, and debt to tangible net worth.
    We expect to renew this revolving line of credit loan agreement
    for an additional year through January 2008 on the same terms
    and conditions.

On August 5, 2005, we filed a shelf registration statement
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering the offer
    and sale from time to time of up to $75 million in debt
    securities, preferred and common stock, and warrants. The
    registration statement allows us to sell securities, after the
    registration statement has been declared effective by the SEC,
    in one or more separate offerings with the size, price and terms
    to be determined at the time of sale. The terms of any
    securities offered would be described in a related prospectus to
    be separately filed with the SEC at the time of the offering. We
    do not expect to make an offering in the foreseeable future.
    However, the filing will enable us to act quickly as
    opportunities arise.

The following table summarizes payments due in specific periods
    related to our contractual obligations as of November 15,
    2006:

We believe that our capital resources, including our short-term
    investments and cash flow from operations are adequate to meet
    our current operational needs. We believe we will be able to
    finance our capital requirements through our short-term
    investments and cash flow from operations, through borrowings
    under our revolving line of credit and from the shelf
    registration of common stock discussed above. However, our
    ability to satisfy our working capital requirements and to fund
    future capital requirements will depend principally upon our
    future operating performance, which is subject to the risks
    inherent in our business.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements  

As of September 30, 2006, we had no off-balance sheet
    arrangements.

Effect of
    Inflation  

We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on
    our business, results of operations or financial condition
    during the past three years.

Critical
    Accounting Policies  

The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make
    certain assumptions and estimates that affect the reported
    amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of our financial
    statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
    during the reporting period. Because of the use of assumptions
    and estimates inherent in the reporting process, actual results
    could differ from those estimates.

15

Table of Contents   

Revenue Recognition.   Our services are provided
    under cancelable service contracts. These contracts are either
     turnkey  or  term  agreements. The Company
    recognizes revenues when services are performed under both types
    of agreements. Services are defined as the commencement of data
    acquisition or processing operations. Under turnkey agreements,
    revenue is recognized on a per unit of data acquired rate, as
    services are performed. Under term agreements, revenue is
    recognized on a per unit of time worked rate, as services are
    performed. In the case of a cancelled service contract, we
    recognize revenue and bill our client for services performed up
    to the date of cancellation. We also receive reimbursements for
    certain
     out-of-pocket 
    expenses under the terms of our service contracts. We record
    amounts billed to clients in revenue at the gross amount
    including
     out-of-pocket 
    expenses that are reimbursed by the client.

In some instances, we bill clients in advance of the services
    performed. In those cases, we recognize the liability as
    deferred revenue.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.   We prepare
    our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable based on our past
    experience of historical write-offs, our current customer base
    and our review of past due accounts. The inherent volatility of
    the energy industry s business cycle can cause swift and
    unpredictable changes in the financial stability of our
    customers.

Impairment of Long-lived Assets.   We review
    long-lived assets for impairment when triggering events occur
    suggesting deterioration in the assets recoverability or fair
    value. Recognition of an impairment charge is required if future
    expected net cash flows are insufficient to recover the carrying
    value of the asset. Our forecast of future cash flows used to
    perform impairment analysis includes estimates of future
    revenues and future gross margins based on our historical
    results and analysis of future oil and gas prices which is
    fundamental in assessing demand for our services. If we are
    unable to achieve these cash flows, we would potentially have an
    impairment charge in the period.

Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and
    Equipment.   Our property, plant and equipment are
    capitalized at historical cost and depreciated over the useful
    life of the asset. Our estimation of this useful life is based
    on circumstances that exist in the seismic industry and
    information available at the time of the purchase of the asset.
    The technology of the equipment used to gather data in the
    seismic industry has historically evolved such that obsolescence
    does not occur quickly. As circumstances change and new
    information becomes available these estimates could change. We
    amortize these capitalized items using the straight-line method.

Tax Accounting.   We account for our income
    taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
     Accounting for Income Taxes,  which requires the
    recognition of amounts of taxes payable or refundable for the
    current year and an asset and liability approach in recognizing
    the amount of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future
    tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our
    financial statements or tax returns. We determine deferred taxes
    by identifying the types and amounts of existing temporary
    differences, measuring the total deferred tax asset or liability
    using the applicable tax rate and reducing the deferred tax
    asset by a valuation allowance if, based on available evidence,
    it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the
    deferred tax assets will not be realized. Our methodology for
    recording income taxes requires judgment regarding assumptions
    and the use of estimates, including determining our annual
    effective tax rate and the valuation of deferred tax assets,
    which can create variance between actual results and estimates
    and could have a material impact on our provision or benefit for
    income taxes.

Stock Based Compensation.   On December 16,
    2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
    of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),
     Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123(R) ).
    SFAS 123(R) requires companies to measure all employee
    stock-based compensation awards using a fair value method and
    recognize compensation cost in its financial statements. We
    adopted on a prospective basis SFAS 123(R) beginning
    October 1, 2005 for stock-based compensation awards granted
    after that date and for unvested awards outstanding at that date
    using the modified prospective application method. We recognize
    the fair value of stock-based compensation awards as operating
    or general and administrative expense as appropriate in the
    Statements of Operations on a straight-line basis over the
    vesting period.

16

Table of Contents   

Recently
    Issued Accounting Pronouncements  

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
     Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,  which
    supersedes APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting
    Changes,  and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting
    Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. 
    SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the
    accounting for and reporting of changes in accounting
    principles. The statement requires the retroactive application
    to prior periods  financial statements of changes in
    accounting principles, unless it is impracticable to determine
    either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of
    the change. SFAS No. 154 does not change the guidance
    for reporting the correction of an error in previously issued
    financial statements or the change in an accounting estimate.
    SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and
    corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2005. We do not expect the adoption of
    SFAS No. 154 to have a material impact on our
    financial statements.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48
    ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109 . FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for
    uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s
    financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement
    No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48
    prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for
    the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax
    position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
    FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition,
    classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim
    periods, disclosures, and transition. FIN 48 is effective
    for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We are
    evaluating the financial statement impact of FIN 48 on the
    Company.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ).
    SFAS 157 clarifies that fair value is the amount that would
    be exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an
    orderly transaction between market participants. Further, the
    standard establishes a framework for measuring fair value in
    generally accepted accounting principles and expands certain
    disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is
    effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
    2007. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 157 to have a
    material impact on our financial statements.

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued
    Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,  Considering
    the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying
    Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements 
    ( SAB 108 ). SAB 108 provides guidance on
    how prior year misstatements should be taken into consideration
    when quantifying misstatements in current year financial
    statements for purposes of determining whether the current
    year s financial statements are materially misstated.
    SAB 108 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
    November 15, 2006. We are evaluating SAB 108 and do
    not expect the adoption of SAB 108 to have a material
    impact on our financial statements.

Item 7A.      

QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   

The primary sources of market risk include fluctuations in
    commodity prices which effect demand for and pricing of our
    services and interest rate fluctuations. At September 30,
    2006, we had no indebtedness. Our short-term investments were
    fixed-rate and we do not necessarily intend to hold them to
    maturity, and therefore, the short-term investments expose us to
    the risk of earnings or cash flow loss due to changes in market
    interest rates. As of September 30, 2006, our short-term
    investments are stated at fair value with the offsetting
    unrecognized gain or loss reflected as a separate component of
    stockholders  equity, other comprehensive income (loss). We
    have not entered into any hedge arrangements, commodity swap
    agreements, commodity futures, options or other derivative
    financial instruments. We do not currently conduct business
    internationally, so we are not generally subject to foreign
    currency exchange rate risk.

Item 8.      

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

The information required by this item appears on pages F-1
    through F-18 hereof and are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.      

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   

None.

17

Table of Contents   

Item 9A.      

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES   

Management s
    Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

Our management, under the supervision and with the participation
    of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, has
    evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
    procedures (as defined in
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of
    September 30, 2006. Based on such evaluation, our chief
    executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded
    that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as
    of September 30, 2006.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our internal control
    over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable
    assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
    the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
    Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
    Under the supervision and with the participation of management,
    including our chief executive officer and chief financial
    officer, we evaluated the effectiveness of our internal controls
    over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 using the
    criteria set forth in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this
    evaluation, management has concluded that, as of
    September 30, 2006, our internal control over financial
    reporting was effective. Management s assessment of the
    effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
    as of September 30, 2006, has been audited by KPMG LLP, the
    independent registered public accounting firm who also audited
    our consolidated financial statements. Their attestation report
    appears on
     page F-3. 

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

There have not been any changes in our internal control over
    financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) during the quarter
    ending September 30, 2006 that have materially affected or
    are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control
    over financial reporting.

Item 9B.      

OTHER
    INFORMATION   

None.

Part III  

Item 10.      

DIRECTORS
    AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

The information required by this Item 10 with respect to
    Directors and Executive Officers is hereby incorporated by
    reference to the sections entitled  Election of
    Directors ,  Election of Directors ,
     Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance ,  Stockholder Proposals for Next Annual
    Meeting , and  Other Matters  in our Proxy
    Statement , filed or to be filed by us with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 within 120 days after the
    end of the fiscal year covered by this
     Form 10-K. 
    Our code of ethics (as defined in Item 406 of
     Regulation S-K) 
    was adopted by our Board of Directors May 25, 2004. The
    Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to our directors,
    officers and employees, including our chief executive officer
    and chief financial officer. Our Code of Business Conduct and
    Ethics is posted on our website at http://www.dawson3d.com in
    the  Corporate Governance  area. Changes to and
    waivers granted with respect to our Code of Business Conduct and
    Ethics related to officers identified above, and our other
    executive officers and directors that we are required to
    disclose pursuant to applicable rules and regulations of the SEC
    will also be posted on our website.

Item 11.      

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION   

The information required by this Item 11 is hereby
    incorporated by reference to the section of the Proxy Statement
    entitled  Management Compensation. 

18

Table of Contents   

Item 12.      

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
    MANAGEMENT   

The information required by this Item 12 with respect to
    security ownership of certain beneficial owners is hereby
    incorporated by reference to the section of the Proxy Statement
    entitled  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management.  The information required with respect to
    our equity compensation plans is set forth in Item 5 of
    this
     Form 10-K. 

On July 13, 1999, our Board of Directors authorized and
    declared a dividend to the holders of record on July 23,
    1999 of one Right (a  Right ) for each outstanding
    share of our common stock. When exercisable, each Right will
    entitle the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of
    our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par
    value $1.00 per share (the  Preferred Shares ),
    at an exercise price of $50.00 per Right. The rights are
    not currently exercisable and will become exercisable only if a
    person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of
    our outstanding common stock or announces a tender offer or
    exchange offer, the consummating of which would result in
    attaining the triggering percentage. We may redeem the Rights
    for $.01 per Right at any time prior to the tenth day after
    the first public announcement of a triggering acquisition.

Item 13.      

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   

None.

Item 14.      

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   

Information concerning principal accountant fees and services
    appears in the Proxy Statement under the heading  Fees Paid
    to the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  and
    is incorporated herein by reference.

Part IV  

Item 15.      

EXHIBITS,
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
     FORM 8-K    

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this
    report:

(1)  Financial Statements. 

The following financial statements of Dawson Geophysical Company
    appear on pages F-1 through F-18 and are incorporated by
    reference into Part II, Item 8:

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Balance Sheets

Statements of Operations

Stockholders  Equity and Other Comprehensive Income

Statements of Cash Flows

Notes to Financial Statements

(2)  Financial Statement Schedules. 

The following financial statement schedule appears on
     page F-18 
    and is hereby incorporated by reference:

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
    for the three years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004.

All other schedules are omitted because they are either not
    applicable or the required information is shown in the financial
    statements or notes thereto.

(3)  Exhibits. 

The information required by this item 15(a)(3) is set forth
    in the Index to Exhibits accompanying this Annual Report of
     Form 10-K 
    and is hereby incorporated by reference.

19

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Midland, and the State
    of Texas, on the 4th day of December, 2006.

DAWSON GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY

By: 

/s/  Stephen
    C. Jumper

Stephen C. Jumper

President and Chief

Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/  L.
    Decker Dawson

L.
    Decker Dawson 

Chairman of the Board of Directors

12-4-06

/s/  Stephen
    C. Jumper

Stephen
    C. Jumper 

President, Chief Executive Officer
    and 
    Director

12-4-06

/s/  Paul
    H. Brown

Paul
    H. Brown 

Director

12-4-06

/s/  Gary
    M. Hoover

Gary
    M. Hoover 

Director

12-4-06

/s/  Tim
    C. Thompson

Tim
    C. Thompson 

Director

12-4-06

/s/  Christina
    W. Hagan

Christina
    W. Hagan 

Executive Vice President,
    Secretary and 
    Chief Financial Officer

12-4-06

20

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

F-1

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Dawson Geophysical Company:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Dawson
    Geophysical Company as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and
    the related statements of operations, stockholders  equity
    and other comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the
    years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2006. In
    connection with our audits of the financial statements, we also
    have audited financial statement schedule II. These
    financial statements and financial statement schedule are the
    responsibility of the Company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
    statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
    of Dawson Geophysical Company as of September 30, 2006 and
    2005, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for
    each of the years in the three-year period ended
    September 30, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally
    accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related
    financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
    basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in
    all material respects, the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    effectiveness of Dawson Geophysical Company s internal
    control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006,
    based on criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report
    dated November 30, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on
    management s assessment of, and the effective operation of,
    internal control over financial reporting.

As discussed in Note 1 to the Financial Statements, the
    Company adopted the provisions of the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board s Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based
    Payment  in fiscal year 2006.

KPMG LLP

Dallas,
    Texas 
    November 30, 2006

F-2

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Dawson Geophysical Company:

We have audited management s assessment, included in the
    accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over
    Financial Reporting, that Dawson Geophysical Company maintained
    effective internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (COSO). Dawson Geophysical Company s management
    is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
    is to express an opinion on management s assessment and an
    opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
    control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
    management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
    such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management s assessment that Dawson
    Geophysical Company maintained effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, is fairly
    stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established
    in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework
     issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion, Dawson
    Geophysical Company maintained, in all material respects,
    effective internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (COSO).

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    balance sheets of Dawson Geophysical Company as of
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the related statements of
    operations, stockholders  equity and comprehensive income,
    and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
    ended September 30, 2006, and our report dated
    November 30, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those
    financial statements, with an explanatory paragraph as the
    Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  in
    fiscal year 2006.

KPMG LLP

Dallas,
    Texas 
    November 30, 2006

F-3

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

BALANCE
    SHEETS   

See accompanying notes to the financial statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

STATEMENTS
    OF OPERATIONS   

See accompanying notes to the financial statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

STATEMENTS
    OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE
    INCOME   

See accompanying notes to the financial statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

STATEMENTS
    OF CASH FLOWS   

See accompanying notes to the financial statements.

F-7

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

1.    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Organization
    and Nature of Operations   

Founded in 1952, the Company acquires and processes
     2-D, 
     3-D  seismic
    and multi-component seismic data for its clients, ranging from
    major oil and gas companies to independent oil and gas
    operations as well as providers of multi-client data libraries.

Cash
    Equivalents   

For purposes of the financial statements, the Company considers
    demand deposits, certificates of deposit and all highly liquid
    debt instruments purchased with an initial maturity of three
    months or less to be cash equivalents.

Short-Term
    Investments   

The Company accounts for its short-term investments in
    accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
    and Equity Securities  (SFAS No. 115). In
    accordance with SFAS No. 115, the Company has
    classified its investment portfolio consisting of
    U.S. Treasury Securities as
      available-for-sale  
    and records the net unrealized holding gains and losses as
    accumulated comprehensive income in stockholders  equity.
    The cost of short-term investments sold is based on the specific
    identification method.

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments   

The carrying amounts for cash and cash equivalents, accounts
    receivable, other current assets, accounts payable and other
    current liabilities approximate their fair values based on their
    short-term nature. The fair value of investments are based on
    quoted market prices.

Concentrations
    of Credit Risk   

Financial instruments which potentially expose the Company to
    concentrations of credit risk, as defined by Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 105,  Disclosure of
    Information About Financial Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet
    Risk and Financial Instruments with Concentrations of Credit
    Risk,  consist primarily of trade accounts receivable and
    short-term investments. The Company s sales are to clients
    whose activities relate to oil and gas exploration and
    production. However, accounts receivable are well diversified
    among many clients, and a significant portion of the receivables
    are from major oil companies, which management believes
    minimizes potential credit risk. The Company generally extends
    unsecured credit to these clients; therefore, collection of
    receivables may be affected by the economy surrounding the oil
    and gas industry. The Company closely monitors extensions of
    credit and may negotiate payment terms that mitigate risk. The
    Company invests primarily in short-term U.S. Treasury
    Securities which it believes are a low risk investment.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment are capitalized at historical cost
    and depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
    Management s estimation of this useful life is based on
    circumstances that exist in the seismic industry and information
    available at the time of the purchase of the asset. As
    circumstances change and new information becomes available these
    estimates could change.

Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method. When
    assets are retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost and
    related accumulated depreciation are removed from the balance
    sheet, and any resulting gain or loss is reflected in the
    results of operations for the period.

F-8

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Impairment
    of Long-Lived Assets   

Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment when triggering
    events occur suggesting a deterioration in the assets
    recoverability or fair value. Recognition of an impairment is
    required if future expected net cash flows are insufficient to
    recover the carrying value of the amounts. Management s
    forecast of future cash flow used to perform impairment analysis
    includes estimates of future revenues and future gross margins.
    If the Company is unable to achieve these cash flows, the
    Company would potentially have an impairment charge in the
    period. No impairment charges were recognized in the Statement
    of Operations for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005
    and 2004.

Revenue
    Recognition   

Contracts for service are provided for under cancelable
    contracts. These contracts are either  turnkey  or
     term  agreements. The Company recognizes revenues
    when services are performed under both types of agreements.
    Services are defined as the commencement of data acquisition or
    processing operations. Under turnkey agreements, revenue is
    recognized on a per unit of data acquired rate, as services are
    performed. Under term agreements, revenue is recognized on a per
    unit of time worked rate, as services are performed. In the case
    of a cancelled contract, revenue is recognized and the customer
    is billed for services performed up to the date of cancellation.

The Company also receives reimbursements for certain
     out-of-pocket 
    expenses under the terms of its master contracts. Amounts billed
    to clients are recorded in revenue at the gross amount including
     out-of-pocket 
    expenses which are reimbursed by the client.

In some instances, customers are billed in advance of services
    performed, and the Company recognizes the liability as deferred
    revenue.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts   

Management prepares its allowance for doubtful accounts
    receivable based on its past experience of historical
    write-offs, its current customer base and review of past due
    accounts. The inherent volatility of the energy industry s
    business cycle can cause swift and unpredictable changes in the
    financial stability of the Company s clients.

Income
    Taxes   

The Company accounts for state and federal income taxes in
    accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes 
    (SFAS No. 109). Under the asset and liability method
    of SFAS No. 109, deferred income taxes are recognized
    for the future tax consequences attributable to differences
    between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing
    assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred
    tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
    expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those
    temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.
    Under SFAS No. 109, the effect on deferred taxes of a
    change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that
    includes the enactment date.

Use of
    Estimates in the Preparation of Financial
    Statements   

Preparation of the accompanying financial statements in
    conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
    requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
    affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
    disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
    the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
    and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
    differ from those estimates.

F-9

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Stock-Based
    Compensation   

On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards
    Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment 
    ( SFAS 123(R) ). SFAS 123(R) requires
    companies to measure all employee stock-based compensation
    awards using a fair value method and recognize compensation cost
    in its financial statements. The Company adopted on a
    prospective basis SFAS 123(R) beginning October 1,
    2005 for stock-based compensation awards granted after that date
    and for unvested awards outstanding at that date using the
    modified prospective application method. The Company recognizes
    the fair value of stock-based compensation awards as operating
    or general and administrative expense as appropriate in the
    Statements of Operations on a straight-line basis over the
    vesting period.

Prior to October 1, 2005, the Company accounted for
    stock-based compensation utilizing the intrinsic value method
    prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25
     Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees 
    ( APB 25 ) and related interpretations. Under
    APB 25, no compensation expense was recognized for
    stock-based compensation. The following pro forma information,
    as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 123  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation 
    ( SFAS 123 ), as amended by Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 148
    ( SFAS 148 ), presents net income and earnings
    per share information as if the stock options issued since
    February 2, 1999 were accounted for using the fair value
    method. The fair value of stock options issued for each year was
    estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option
    pricing model.

The SFAS 123 pro forma information for the fiscal years
    ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 is as follows:

The adoption of SFAS 123(R) in the first quarter of fiscal
    year 2006 resulted in prospective changes in the accounting for
    stock-based compensation awards including recording stock-based
    compensation expense related to stock options that became vested
    during each quarter on a prospective basis. Because the
    Company s plans are incentive stock option plans, no tax
    deduction is recorded when options are granted. If an exercise
    and sale of vested options results in a disqualifying
    disposition, a tax deduction for the Company occurs. The excess
    tax benefit from the disqualifying disposition of options is
    reflected both in cash flows from operating activities and cash
    flows from financing activities in the Statements of Cash Flows.

The adoption of SFAS 123(R) resulted in the recognition of
    compensation expense of $289,000, or $0.04 per share in
    operating costs in the Statement of Operations for the twelve
    months ended September 30, 2006. In accordance with the
    modified prospective application method of SFAS 123(R),
    prior period amounts have not been restated to reflect the
    recognition of stock-based compensation costs. The total cost
    related to non-vested awards not

F-10

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

yet recognized at September 30, 2006 totals approximately
    $266,000 which is expected to be recognized over a weighted
    average of 1.6 years.

In periods ending prior to October 1, 2005, the income tax
    benefits from the exercise of stock options were classified as
    net cash provided by operating activities pursuant to Emerging
    Issues Task Force Issue
     No. 00-15. 
    However, for periods ending after December 31, 2005,
    pursuant to SFAS 123(R), the excess tax benefits are
    required to be reported in net cash provided by financing
    activities. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2006,
    excess tax benefits from disqualifying dispositions of options
    of $180,000 were reflected in both cash flows from operating
    activities and cash flows from financing activities in the
    Statements of Cash Flows.

The Company adopted the 2000 Incentive Stock Plan during fiscal
    1999, which provides options to purchase 500,000 shares of
    authorized but unissued common stock of the Company. The option
    price is the market value of the Company s common stock at
    date of grant. Options are exercisable 25% annually from the
    date of the grant and the options expire five years from the
    date of grant. The 2000 Plan provided that 50,000 of the
    500,000 shares of authorized but unissued common stock may
    be awarded to officers, directors and employees of the Company
    for the purpose of additional compensation.

In fiscal 2004, the Company adopted the 2004 Incentive Stock
    Plan which provides 375,000 shares of authorized but
    unissued common stock of the Company. The 2004 Incentive Stock
    Plan operates like the 2000 Incentive Stock Plan except that of
    the 375,000 shares, up to 125,000 shares may be
    awarded to officers, directors, and employees of the Company for
    the purpose of additional compensation and up to
    125,000 shares may be awarded with restrictions.

Options for 99,250, 80,500 and 55,500 shares were
    exercisable with weighted average exercise prices of $7.50,
    $7.02 and $7.42 as of September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively.

Outstanding options at September 30, 2006 expire between
    April 2007 and November 2009 and have exercise prices ranging
    from $5.21 to $17.91.

There were no stock options granted during fiscal 2006. For
    stock options granted in fiscal 2005, the model assumed expected
    volatility of 44% and risk-free interest rate of 5.25%. The fair
    value of each stock option is estimated on the date of grant
    using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The expected volatility
    is based on historical volatility over the expected vesting term
    of 48 months. As the Company has not declared dividends
    since it became a public entity, no dividend yield is used in
    the calculation. Actual value realized, if any, is dependent on
    the future performance of the Company s common stock and
    overall stock market conditions. There is no assurance

F-11

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

the value realized by an optionee will be at or near the value
    estimated by the Black-Scholes model. Option activity is
    summarized as follows:

The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted
    during fiscal 2005 was $10.18. There were no options granted
    during fiscal 2006. The total intrinsic value of options
    exercised during fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and
    2005 were $1,029,484 and $838,383, respectively.

2.    

Short-Term
    Investments  

Investment in securities consists of U.S. Treasury
    Securities. At September 30, 2006, the Company has an
    unrealized loss on short-term investments of $33,000, which is
    $52,000 net of the tax effect of $19,000 and is in
     Other comprehensive income, net of tax .

The short-term investment held at September 30, 2006 has a
    contractual maturity of May, 2007.

3.    

Property,
    Plant and Equipment  

Property, plant and equipment, together with annual depreciation
    rates, consist of the following:

(a)  

Other represents accumulated costs associated with equipment
    fabrication and modification not yet completed. 

F-12

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The Company has a revolving line of credit loan agreement with
    Western National Bank. This agreement permits the Company to
    borrow, repay and reborrow, from time to time until
    January 18, 2007, up to $10.0 million. The
    Company s obligations under this agreement are secured by a
    security interest in the Company s accounts receivable and
    related collateral. Interest on the outstanding amount under the
    line of credit loan agreement is payable monthly at a rate equal
    to the greater of (i) the Prime Rate or (ii) 5.0%. The
    loan agreement contains customary covenants for credit
    facilities of this type, including limitations on distributions
    and dividends, disposition of assets and mergers and
    acquisitions. There are certain financial covenants under the
    loan agreement, including maintaining a minimum tangible net
    worth (as defined in the loan agreement) of $40.0 million
    and maintaining specified ratios with respect to cash flow
    coverage, current assets and liabilities, and debt to tangible
    net worth. The Company is in compliance with all covenants and
    no funds were borrowed under this credit loan agreement during
    fiscal 2006.

5.    

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

The Company provides a 401(k) plan as part of its employee
    benefits package in order to retain quality personnel. During
    2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company elected to match 100% of
    employee contributions up to a maximum of 5% of the
    participant s gross salary. For fiscal 2007, the Company
    has elected to match 100% of the employee contributions up to a
    maximum of 6% of the participant s gross salary and to
    offer a Roth 401(k) plan. The Company s matching
    contributions for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were approximately
    $724,000, $555,000 and $438,000, respectively.

6.    

Income
    Taxes  

The Company recorded income tax expense in the current year of
    $9,358,000 as compared to $4,506,000 in 2005. The increase in
    the provision for 2006 from 2005 is primarily a result of a
    substantial increase in income before income taxes resulting in
    increased federal and state income taxes. The Company fully
    utilized its federal net operating loss ( NOL )
    carryforwards during 2006 and started remitting regular tax
    reduced by alternative minimum tax ( AMT ) credits.

Income tax expense (benefit) from continuing operations.

The income tax provision (benefit) differs from the amount
    computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to
    income from continuing operations before income taxes as follows:

F-13

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The principal components of the Company s net deferred tax
    liability are as follows:

As of September 30, 2006, the Company has utilized all its
    net operating loss carryforward for U.S. federal income tax
    purposes. As of September 30, 2006, the Company had
    individual state net operating loss carryforwards of
    approximately $400,000. Most of these carryforwards are
    primarily available in states where the Company believes the
    assets cannot be deemed to be realizable with any degree of
    confidence. Based on management s belief a $29,000
    valuation allowance was established to offset these deferred tax
    assets. As of September 30, 2006 an additional valuation
    allowance of $61,000 was established against the Company s
    deferred tax asset for capital loss carryforwards that the
    Company doesn t deem realizable in the foreseeable future.
    The Company has alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards
    totaling approximately $1,119,000 to offset regular income tax,
    which have no scheduled expiration date.

7.    

Net
    Income per Common Share  

The Company accounts for earnings per share in accordance with
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,
     Earnings per Share  (SFAS 128). Unlike primary
    earnings per share, basic earnings per share excludes any
    dilutive effects of options, warrants and convertible securities.

F-14

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and
    diluted net income per common share:

8.    

Major
    Customers  

The Company operates in only one business segment, contract
    seismic data acquisition and processing services. The major
    customers in 2006, 2005, and 2004 varied and sales to these
    customers, as a percentage of operating revenues, for periods in
    which sales to these customers exceeded 10%, were as follows:

Although 24% of our fiscal 2006 revenues are derived from one
    client, our evaluation indicates that our relationship is well
    founded for continued contractual commitments for the
    foreseeable future in multiple producing basins across the lower
    48 states. The Company s client  B  in the
    table above acts as an agent for other entities that are the
    actual purchasers of the Company s services. Sales to each
    of the actual purchasers represent less than 10% of the
    Company s total revenues. Because of our relatively large
    client base, our largest clients have varied from year to year.
    Current demand for our services indicates that the loss of any
    single client would not have a long term negative effect on our
    business.

9.    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

The Company is party to various legal actions arising in the
    ordinary course of its business, none of which management
    believes will result in a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position or results of operation, as
    the Company believes it is adequately indemnified and insured.

The Company has non-cancelable operating leases for office space
    in Midland, Houston, Denver, Oklahoma City and Lyon Township,
    Michigan.

F-15

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table summarizes payments due in specific periods
    related to our contractual obligations as of November 15,
    2006:

On July 13, 1999, the Board of Directors of the Company
    authorized and declared a dividend to the holders of record on
    July 23, 1999 of one Right (a  Right ) for each
    outstanding share of the Company s common stock. When
    exercisable, each Right will entitle the holder to purchase one
    one-hundredth of a share of a Series A Junior Participating
    Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Company (the
     Preferred Shares ) at an exercise price of
    $50.00 per Right. The rights are not currently exercisable
    and will become exercisable only if a person or group acquires
    beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the Company s
    outstanding common stock or announces a tender offer or exchange
    offer, the consummating of which would result in attaining the
    triggering percentage. The Rights are subject to redemption by
    the Company for $.01 per Right at any time prior to the
    tenth day after the first public announcement of a triggering
    acquisition.

If the Company is acquired in a merger or other business
    combination transaction after a person has acquired beneficial
    ownership of 20% or more of the Company s common stock,
    each Right will entitle its holder to purchase, at the
    Right s then current exercise price, a number of the
    acquired Company s shares of common stock having a market
    value of two times such price. In addition, if a person or group
    acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the
    Company s common stock, each Right will entitle its holder
    (other than the acquiring person or group) to purchase, at the
    Right s then current exercise price, a number of the
    Company s shares of common stock having a market value of
    two times the exercise price.

Subsequent to the acquisition by a person or group of beneficial
    ownership of 20% or more of the Company s common stock and
    prior to the acquisition of beneficial ownership of 50% or more
    of the Company s common stock, the Board of Directors of
    the Company may exchange the Rights (other than Rights owned by
    such acquiring person or group, which will have become null and
    void and nontransferable), in whole or in part, at an exchange
    ratio of one share of the Company s common stock (or one
    one-hundredth of a Preferred Share) per Right.

The Rights dividend distribution was made on July 23, 1999,
    payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on
    that date. The Rights will expire on July 23, 2009.

11.    

Recently
    Issued Accounting Pronouncements  

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
     Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,  which
    supersedes APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting
    Changes,  and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting
    Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. 
    SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the
    accounting for and reporting of changes in accounting
    principles. The statement requires the retroactive application
    to prior periods  financial statements of changes in
    accounting principles, unless it is impracticable to determine
    either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of
    the change. SFAS No. 154 does not change the guidance
    for reporting the correction of an error in previously issued
    financial statements or the change in an accounting estimate.
    SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and
    corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2005. The Company does not expect the adoption
    of SFAS No. 154 to have a material impact on its
    financial statements.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48
    ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109 . FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for
    uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s
    financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement
    No. 109, Accounting

F-16

Table of Contents   

DAWSON
    GEOPHYSICAL COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

for Income Taxes. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold
    and measurement attribute for the financial statement
    recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected
    to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance
    on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties,
    accounting in interim periods, disclosures, and transition.
    FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2006. The Company is evaluating the impact of
    FIN 48 on its financial position and results of operations
    and financial condition.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ).
    SFAS 157 clarifies that fair value is the amount that would
    be exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an
    orderly transaction between market participants. Further, the
    standard establishes a framework for measuring fair value in
    generally accepted accounting principles and expands certain
    disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is
    effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
    2007. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS 157
    to have a material impact on its financial statements.

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued
    Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,  Considering
    the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying
    Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements 
    ( SAB 108 ). SAB 108 provides guidance on
    how prior year misstatements should be taken into consideration
    when quantifying misstatements in current year financial
    statements for purposes of determining whether the current
    year s financial statements are materially misstated.
    SAB 108 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
    November 15, 2006. The Company is evaluating SAB 108
    and does not expect the adoption of SAB 108 to have a
    material impact on its financial statements.

12.    

Quarterly
    Financial Data (Unaudited)  

F-17

Table of Contents   

Schedule II  

Dawson
    Geophysical Company 

Valuation
    and Qualifying Accounts  

*  

Deductions related to allowance for doubtful accounts represent
    amounts that have been deemed uncollectible and written off by
    the Company. 

F-18

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

*  

Filed herewith. 

Identifies Exhibit that consists of or includes a management
    contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

<EX-23.1>
 2
 d41705exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23w1 

Exhibit
23.1

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

The Board of Directors 
Dawson Geophysical Company:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement (Reg. No. 333-113576) on
Form S-8 of Dawson Geophysical Company and the registration statement (Reg. No. 333-127268) on Form
S-3 of Dawson Geophysical Company of our reports dated November 30, 2006, with respect to the
balance sheets of Dawson Geophysical Company as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the related
statements of operations, stockholders  equity and other comprehensive income, and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2006, and the related financial
statement schedule, management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting as of September 30, 2006, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting as of September 30, 2006, which reports appear in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Dawson Geophysical Company for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. Our report refers to the
adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board s Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  in fiscal year 2006.

KPMG LLP

Dallas, Texas 
November 30, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 3
 d41705exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Stephen C. Jumper, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Dawson Geophysical Company; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Dated:
December 4, 2006

/s/ Stephen C. Jumper

Stephen C. Jumper  

President and Chief Executive Officer
 (principal executive officer)  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 4
 d41705exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Christina W. Hagan, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Dawson Geophysical Company; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Dated:
December 4, 2006

/s/ Christina W. Hagan

Christina W. Hagan  

Executive Vice President, Secretary
and Chief Financial Officer
 (principal financial and accounting officer)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 5
 d41705exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(B)

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the annual report of Dawson Geophysical Company (the  Company ) on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the  Report ), I, Stephen C. Jumper, President and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:

(1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)); and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Dated:
December 4, 2006

/s/ Stephen C. Jumper

Stephen C. Jumper  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 6
 d41705exv32w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(B)

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the annual report of Dawson Geophysical Company (the  Company ) on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the  Report ), I, Christina W. Hagan, Executive Vice President, Secretary and Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:

(1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)); and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Dated:
December 4, 2006

/s/ Christina W. Hagan

Christina W. Hagan  

Executive Vice President, Secretary
and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32.2>

