<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061103_10-K_edgar_data_87565_0000950152-06-008728_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1359673</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>227567</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>825184</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>70</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950152-06-008728.hdr.sgml : 20061103
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061102202205
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950152-06-008728
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060831
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061103
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061102

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SCHULMAN A INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000087565
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PLASTICS, MATERIALS, SYNTH RESINS & NONVULCAN ELASTOMERS [2821]
		IRS NUMBER:				340514850
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-07459
		FILM NUMBER:		061184387

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3550 W MARKET ST
		CITY:			AKRON
		STATE:			OH
		ZIP:			44333
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3306663751

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3550 W MARKET STREET
		CITY:			AKRON
		STATE:			OH
		ZIP:			44333

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 UxF7dJaYNSrzX9Vcqfi1eU4zN6HPVIoE5D1/K1rskFP2EZ4pq3XH8pT4CI5zH0j8
 TLw5csSUMWnGAQGOWDTgjA==

 0000950152-06-008728.txt : 20061103

10-K
 1
 l22086ae10vk.htm
 A. SCHULMAN, INC.           10-K

A. SCHULMAN, INC.          10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K   

Commission file
     no. 0-7459 

A. SCHULMAN, INC.  

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:
      (330) 666-3751  

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title
    of Each Class  

Name
    of Each Exchange on Which Registered  

Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value

The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

Special Stock Purchase Rights

The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.
    Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Exchange
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
    Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.    o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
    filer   o      Accelerated
    filer          Non-accelerated
    filer   o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes  o      No   

As of February 28, 2006, the aggregate market value of the
    registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the
    registrant was $687,000,051 based on the closing sale price as
    reported on the Nasdaq National Market System.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
    issuer s classes of common stock, as of the latest
    practicable date 26,842,722 Shares of Common Stock,
    $1.00 Par Value, at October 31, 2006.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Part of
     Form 10-K  

Document  

In Which
    Incorporated  

Portions of the registrant s
    Notice of Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders

III

The Report of the Compensation Committee on Executive
    Compensation, the Report of the Audit Committee and the
    Performance Graph contained in the registrant s Notice of
    Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting
    of Stockholders shall not be deemed incorporated by reference
    herein.

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

PART I   

ITEM 1.  

BUSINESS  

3

ITEM 1A.  

RISK
    FACTORS  

9

ITEM 1B.  

UNRESOLVED STAFF
    COMMENTS  

14

ITEM 2.  

PROPERTIES  

14

ITEM 3.  

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS  

15

ITEM 4.  

SUBMISSION OF
    MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

15

PART II   

ITEM 5.  

MARKET FOR THE
    COMPANY S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
    ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

16

ITEM 6.  

SELECTED FINANCIAL
    DATA  

17

ITEM 7.  

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS  

17

ITEM 7A.  

QUANTITATIVE AND
    QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

33

ITEM 8.  

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

34

ITEM 9.  

CHANGES IN AND
    DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
    DISCLOSURES  

63

ITEM 9A.  

CONTROLS AND
    PROCEDURES  

63

ITEM 9B.  

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

64

PART III   

ITEM 10.  

DIRECTORS AND
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

64

ITEM 11.  

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION  

64

ITEM 12.  

SECURITY OWNERSHIP
    OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT  

64

ITEM 13.  

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  

64

ITEM 14.  

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT
    FEES AND SERVICES  

64

PART IV   

ITEM 15.  

EXHIBITS AND
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

64

SIGNATURES  

67

EX-10(GG)    
     EX-11    
     EX-21    
     EX-23    
     EX-24    
     EX-31    
     EX-32    

2

Table of Contents   

PART I  

ITEM 1.  

BUSINESS

A. Schulman, Inc. (the  Company ) was organized as an
    Ohio corporation in 1928 and changed its state of incorporation
    to Delaware in 1969.

The Company is engaged in the sale of plastic resins in various
    forms, which are used as raw materials by its customers. To
    identify reportable segments, the Company considered its
    operating structure and the types of information subject to
    regular review by its President and Chief Executive Officer, who
    is the Chief Operating Decision Maker. On this basis, the
    Company operates primarily in two geographic segments, North
    America and Europe, including Asia ( Europe ).

BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

The Company combines basic resins purchased from plastic resin
    producers and, through mixing and extrusion processes,
    introduces additives that provide color, stabilizers, flame
    retardants or other enhancements that may be required by a
    customer. These compounds are formulated in the Company s
    laboratories and technical centers and are manufactured in the
    Company s 15 plastics compounding plants in North America,
    Europe and Asia. Customers for the Company s plastic
    compounds include manufacturers, custom molders and extruders of
    a wide variety of plastic products and parts. The Company
    generally produces compounds on the basis of customer
    commitments and expectations. When necessary, compounds are
    produced for future delivery and are stored in Company or public
    warehouses.

The Company s plastic compounds are sold to manufacturers
    and suppliers in various markets such as packaging, automotive,
    consumer products, electrical/electronics, office equipment and
    agriculture. These compounds are used in the packaging industry
    for such products as plastic bags and labels and packaging
    materials for food, soap, fragrances, flowers, gardening
    supplies and various household necessities; in the automotive
    industry for such products as grilles, body side moldings,
    bumper protective strips, window seals, valance panels, bumper
    guards, air ducts, steering wheels, fan shrouds and other
    interior and exterior components; in the consumer products
    industry for such items as writing instruments, shelving, soft
    drink coolers, video tape cassettes, batteries, outdoor
    furniture, lawn sprinklers, artificial turf, skateboards, toys,
    games and plastic parts for various household appliances; in the
    electrical/electronics industry for such products as outdoor
    lighting, parts for telephones, connector blocks, transformers
    and capacitor housings; in the office equipment industry for
    such products as cases and housings for computers, trim for arms
    of office chairs, folders and binders, stack trays and panels
    and drawers for copying machines; and in the agriculture
    industry for such products as greenhouse coverings and
    protective film for plants and agricultural mulch.

The Company also acts as a merchant, buying prime and off-grade
    plastic resins and reselling these commodities, without further
    processing, to a variety of users. The plastic resins generally
    are purchased from major producers. Prime resins purchased from
    these producers are usually sold to small and medium-sized
    customers. In addition to prime resins, the Company purchases
    supplies of resins resulting from overruns, changes in
    customers  specifications and failure to meet rigid prime
    specifications. Historically, these materials have been in
    continuous supply, generally in proportion to the total industry
    production of plastic resins.

The Company, through its European operations, acts as a
    distributor for several major resin producers that include BASF,
    ExxonMobil Chemical, Total Petrochemicals, Solvay, GE Plastics
    and Vestolit GmbH. The Company also acts as a North American
    distributor of ExxonMobil Chemical polyethylene used for
    injection and rotational molding.

In September 2005, the Company introduced its new
    Invision   
    sheet product and formed A. Schulman Invision, Inc., a wholly
    owned subsidiary.
    Invision   
    is a revolutionary product based on cutting-edge technology that
    is expected to provide high growth opportunities in many markets
    around the world.
    Invision   
    is a multi-layered, extruded sheet product that reduces costs
    and simplifies the manufacturing process for the Company s
    customers, while providing a higher-performing and more
    environmentally friendly alternative to existing plastic and
    film materials that are painted or colored. The Company expects
    Invision   
    to appeal to customers in a variety of markets, both automotive
    and non-automotive. Initially, the Company will focus on
    automotive applications to capitalize on the Company s
    market presence and recognized capabilities. Samples from the
    Company s pilot line have been tested by several potential
    customers and the Company has received positive feedback based
    on the initial results of these tests. The initial production
    line in the Company s Sharon Center facility is nearing
    completion and is scheduled for
     start-up  in
    January 2007 with the ability to produce saleable product
    expected

3

Table of Contents   

shortly thereafter. In addition, the Company has purchased land
    for a greenfield plant site in Findlay, Ohio for construction of
    a dedicated
    Invision   
    facility. While
    Invision   
    did not produce operating income in fiscal 2006, the Company
    believes this is a very large market that could have significant
    sales in the years ahead.

The Company s manufacturing in each of its geographic
    business segments can be classified into five major product
    families: color and additive concentrates; engineered compounds;
    polyolefins; polyvinyl chloride (PVC); and tolling.

COLOR AND
    ADDITIVE CONCENTRATES  

The Company s concentrate business consists of the
    compounding of resins that provide plastic with specific color
     and/or 
    physical properties, such as conductivity, flexibility,
    viscosity and textures. A color concentrate is a clear or
    natural plastic resin into which a substantial amount of color
    pigment is incorporated or dispersed. The Company manufactures
    its concentrates using its formulae and purchased natural
    resins. These concentrates are sold to manufacturers of plastic
    products, such as film for packaging, household goods, toys,
    automotive parts, mechanical goods and other plastic items.

The Company s concentrates are sold under various trade
    names, including the following:

Polybatch   ,
    which is an additive or color concentrate used for modifying
    various plastic resins and which provides various physical
    properties required by customers;

Papermatch   ,
    which is a plastic alternative to paper used for packaging,
    menus, maps and other products.
    Papermatch   
    is printable and resistant to tearing, moisture and chemicals;

Aqua-Sol   ,
    which is a polymer that is biodegradable and dissolves in water,
    making it more environmentally friendly for uses such as medical
    packaging, labels, barrier and embroidery films, and other
    applications; and

Polyblak   ,
    which is a line of black concentrates that are resistant to
    weather and sunlight and are used in the production of plastic
    pipe, black film and other black plastic items. This line of
    products is manufactured by third parties for the Company.

ENGINEERED
    COMPOUNDS  

The Company s engineered compounds are products designed to
    have and maintain characteristics such as chemical resistance,
    electrical conductivity, heat resistance
     and/or  high
     strength-to-weight 
    ratios. The engineered compounds manufactured by the Company
    include the following:

Polyflam   ,
    which is a flame retardant compound used in applications such as
    telephone systems, terminal blocks, parts for color televisions,
    electrical components and housings for household appliances and
    outdoor products.

Schulamid   ,
    which is a nylon compound that can be unfilled, reinforced or
    impact-modified.
    Schulamid   
    is used in applications that require good impact strength and
    resistance to high temperatures and chemicals. Typical
    applications include
     under-the-hood 
    automotive components and various building and consumer products.

Formion   ,
    which is a specialized compound that has good impact strength,
    is resistant to abrasion and has performance characteristics
    that do not decrease in low temperatures.
    Formion   
    is sold principally to the transportation industry for use in
    bumper blocks and protective rub strips.

Polypur   ,
    which is a reinforced and alloyed thermoplastic polyurethane
    that has impact resistance and molding properties for automotive
    applications such as exterior side moldings, grilles, body side
    moldings and other painted parts.

Clarix   ,
    which is a thermoplastic ionomer resin offering scratch
    resistance, barrier properties, chemical resistance and superior
    clarity.
    Clarix   
    is ideal for many diverse applications including packaging,
    automotive paintless parts, textile and metal coatings, footwear
    components, sporting goods and polymer modifiers.

POLYOLEFINS  

The Company s polyolefin business consists of numerous
    polypropylene and polyethylene resins and compounds. Polyolefins
    are used for interior trim, fascias and bumper covers in
    automotive applications; for toys, small appliances,

4

Table of Contents   

sporting goods, and agricultural and watercraft products in
    roto-molding applications; and for office supplies in
    industrial/commercial applications. The polyolefin products
    manufactured by the Company include the following:

Polytrope   ,
    which is a thermoplastic elastomer that has high resiliency and
    good impact resistance. Presently, the principal market for this
    product is the domestic automotive industry and typical
    applications include valance panels, body side moldings, grilles
    and bumper rub strips. Parts molded from
    Polytrope   
    weigh less than equivalent metal parts, are impact-resistant and
    may be painted to match adjoining exterior body parts.

Polyfort   ,
    which is a reinforced polypropylene compound for applications
    that require stiffness and resistance to heat distortion, such
    as coffee makers, binders for computer printouts, interior trim
    and
     under-the-hood 
    products for automobiles.

Schulink   ,
    which is a crosslink polyethylene-based compound, is used in
    rotational molding applications requiring high strength and
    chemical resistance, such as industrial doors and commercial
    waste containers.

Invision   ,
    a thermoplastic elastomer, is a PVC alternative that can be
    injection molded, blow molded or extruded. It is a polyolefin
    compound with properties similar to PVC. It can be used in
    automotive interiors, trim for furniture, appliances and
    industrial components.

Polyaxis   ,
    a polyethylene resin compound used for rotationally molded
    applications such as canoes, kayaks, agricultural tanks, etc.

POLYVINYL
    CHLORIDE  

The Company s PVC business is transacted under the name
    Polyvin   
    and involves the formulation of compounds and elastomers to
    introduce a variety of product attributes, including
    weatherability, consistency, ease of processing, material
    flexibility, and high-gloss or low-gloss finish. The
    Company s thermoplastic PVC compounds are available in blow
    molding, injection molding and extrusion grades for application
    in the manufacture of automotive, furniture, architectural and
    consumer products. The Company s
    Sunprene   
    compound serves as a replacement for rubber and other
    thermoplastic elastomers in automotive applications.

TOLLING  

The Company provides tolling services as a fee for processing of
    material provided and owned by customers. On some occasions, the
    Company is required to provide certain amounts of its materials,
    such as additives or packaging. These materials are charged to
    the customer as an addition to the tolling fees. The Company
    recognizes revenues from tolling services and related materials
    when such services are performed. The only amounts recorded as
    revenue related to tolling are the processing fees and the
    charges related to materials provided by the Company.

The approximate amount and percentage of net consolidated sales
    for each of the Company s product families for the three
    fiscal years ended August 31, 2006 are as follows:

Information regarding the amount of sales, operating income and
    identifiable assets attributable to each of the Company s
    geographic business segments for the last three years is set
    forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the
    Company appearing in ITEM 8 of this Report.

5

Table of Contents   

The Company s principal subsidiaries are as follows:

A. Schulman Plastics, BVBA, a Belgian subsidiary located in
    Bornem, Belgium, manufactures color and additive concentrates
    and compounds. These products principally are sold in Germany,
    France, the Benelux countries, Italy and Asia.

A. Schulman International Services N.V., a Belgian subsidiary
    located in Bornem, Belgium, provides financing and
    administrative services to the Company s European
    operations.

A. Schulman, Inc., Limited, a United Kingdom subsidiary located
    in South Wales, United Kingdom, primarily manufactures color and
    additive plastic concentrates, which are sold in the United
    Kingdom and to various A. Schulman European locations.

A. Schulman GmbH, a German subsidiary located in Sindorf,
    Germany, manufactures engineered and flame-retardant plastic
    compounds. In addition, this subsidiary purchases and sells
    prime and off-grade plastic resins from major European
    producers. This subsidiary also distributes plastic resins and
    compounds for companies, including Vestolit GmbH, ExxonMobil
    Chemical, GE Plastics and Solvay.

A. Schulman Canada Ltd., a Canadian subsidiary located in St.
    Thomas, Ontario, manufactures engineered and various other
    plastic compounds, acts as a merchant of prime and off-grade
    plastic resins and distributes for companies, including
    ExxonMobil Chemical polyethylene for injection molding. Its
    principal sales office is located in Mississauga, Ontario,
    Canada.

A. Schulman AG, a Swiss subsidiary located in Zurich,
    Switzerland, sells plastic compounds and concentrates
    manufactured by other European subsidiaries of the Company and
    also acts as a merchant of plastic resins.

A. Schulman, S.A., a French subsidiary, has sales offices in
    France and is a distributor in France for Total Petrochemicals.
    A. Schulman, S.A. also acts as a merchant of plastic resins and
    sells compounds manufactured by the Company s subsidiaries
    in Bornem, Belgium, Sindorf, Germany and Givet, France.
    Diffusion Plastique is a Paris-based subsidiary that is a
    distributor for BASF of certain plastic materials in France.

A. Schulman Plastics, S.A., another French subsidiary, is
    located in Givet, France. This subsidiary produces plastic
    concentrates for the Company s European market.

Through its Mexican subsidiary, A. Schulman de Mexico, S.A. de
    C.V., the Company manufactures concentrates for the packaging
    industry and compounds for the automotive, construction,
    appliance and consumer products markets. This subsidiary has
    sales offices in Mexico.

A. Schulman Polska Sp. z o.o., is a subsidiary located in
    Warsaw, Poland. The subsidiary sells products manufactured by
    other subsidiaries of the Company and acts as distributor and
    merchant of plastic resins and compounds in Poland.

A. Schulman Plastics SpA is a subsidiary located in Italy. This
    subsidiary manufactures and sells engineered compounds and
    concentrates to the Italian market. It sells products
    manufactured by A. Schulman Plastics, BVBA, A. Schulman
    Plastics, S.A., A. Schulman Gmbh and A. Schulman, Inc., Limited
    and acts as a merchant of plastic resins in Italy.

A. Schulman Plastics S.L., a Spanish subsidiary, is primarily a
    distributor of plastic resins to the Spanish market through its
    offices located in Barcelona and Valencia, Spain. This
    subsidiary also engages in merchant activities in Spain and
    sells certain products manufactured by A. Schulman Gmbh, and A.
    Schulman Plastics, BVBA.

A. Schulman Hungary Kft., a Hungarian subsidiary, sells
    engineered compounds manufactured by A. Schulman GmbH and
    concentrates manufactured by A. Schulman Plastics, BVBA, A.
    Schulman Plastics, S.A., and A. Schulman, Inc., Limited. It also
    acts as a merchant of plastic resins in Hungary.

A. Schulman Plastics (Dongguan) Ltd., a subsidiary in China,
    manufactures concentrates for sale in the local Chinese markets.
    This subsidiary produces material for customers in the film and
    packaging markets.

A. Schulman Europe GmbH, a subsidiary with offices in Wurselen,
    Germany provides support in the areas of sales, procurement,
    logistics and financing for the European operations.

6

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman S. r.l. et Cie SCS, A. Schulman S. r.l.
    and A. Schulman Holdings S. r.l. are Luxembourg
    subsidiaries that provide financing and other corporate services
    for the European group.

A. Schulman Invision, Inc. is a subsidiary located in Sharon
    Center, Ohio formed in fiscal 2006. The subsidiary manufactures
    Invision   ,
    a multi-layered, extruded sheet product for sale in both the
    automotive and non-automotive markets.

JOINT VENTURES

The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary ASI Investments
    Holding Co., owns a 70% partnership interest in The Sunprene
    Company, which manufactures a line of PVC thermoplastic
    elastomers and compounds primarily for the North American
    automotive market. The other partner is an indirect wholly-owned
    subsidiary of Mitsubishi Chemical MKV Co., one of the largest
    chemical companies in Japan. This partnership has two
    manufacturing lines at the Company s Bellevue, Ohio
    facility. The Company s partner provides technical and
    manufacturing expertise.

The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary A. Schulman
    International, Inc., owns a 65% interest in PT. A. Schulman
    Plastics, Indonesia, an Indonesian joint venture. This joint
    venture has a manufacturing facility with two production lines
    in Surabaya, Indonesia. P.T. Prima Polycon Indah owns the
    remaining 35% interest in this joint venture.

EMPLOYEE INFORMATION

As of August 31, 2006, the Company had 1,042 employees in
    North America and 1,438 employees in its European operations.
    Approximately 80% of the Company s hourly production
    employees are represented by various unions under collective
    bargaining agreements.

The Company has laboratory facilities at a majority of its
    plants staffed by 313 technical personnel. The Company s
    plastic compounding business is, to a degree, dependent on its
    ability to hire and retain qualified technical personnel. These
    personnel are involved in activities relating to the testing and
    sampling of material for conformity with product specifications
    and the development of new compounds. The Company has generally
    been successful in hiring or retaining such personnel.

RESEARCH AND
    DEVELOPMENT

A large part of the Company s technical activities relate
    to the continuous refinement of compounds for specific
    applications of customers. Research activities relating to the
    development of new products and the improvement of existing
    products are important to the Company. These activities are
    conducted at the Company s various technical centers and
    laboratories. Research and development expenditures were
    approximately $4.7 million in fiscal 2006 and approximately
    $3.8 million in fiscal 2005. The increase in these
    activities is primarily related to the new
    Invision   
    sheet product.

COMPLIANCE WITH
    ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

The Company s operations on and ownership of real property
    are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws
    and regulations at the national, state and local governmental
    levels. The nature of the Company s business exposes it to
    risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the
    production, storage, transportation, recycling or disposal
     and/or  sale
    of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury if
    they are released into the environment or workplace.
    Environmental laws may have a significant effect on the costs of
    these activities involving raw materials, finished products and
    wastes. The Company may incur substantial costs, including
    fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions, remediation costs,
    or experience interruptions in its operations for violations of
    these laws.

Also, national and state environmental statutes impose strict,
    and under some circumstances, joint and several liability for
    the cost of investigations and remedial actions on any company
    that generated the waste, arranged for disposal of the waste,
    transported the waste to the disposal site or selected the
    disposal site, as well as on the owners and operators of these
    sites. Any or all of the responsible parties may be required to
    bear all of the costs of clean up, regardless of fault or
    legality of the waste disposal or ownership of the site, and may
    also be subject to liability for natural resource damages. It is
    possible that the Company could be identified as a potential
    responsible party at more sites in the future, which could
    result in the Company being assessed substantial investigation
    or clean up costs.

7

Table of Contents   

Management believes that compliance with national, state and
    local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the
    environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the
    environment, does not currently have a material effect upon the
    capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the
    Company.

DEPENDENCE ON
    CUSTOMERS

During the year ended August 31, 2006, the Company s
    five largest customers accounted in the aggregate for less than
    10% of total sales. In management s opinion, the Company is
    not dependent upon any single customer and the loss of any one
    customer would not have a materially adverse effect on the
    Company s business other than, potentially, on a temporary
    basis.

AVAILABILITY OF RAW
    MATERIALS

The raw materials required by the Company are readily available
    from major plastic resin producers or other suppliers. The
    principal types of plastic resins used in the manufacture of the
    Company s proprietary plastic compounds are polypropylene,
    PVC (polyvinyl chloride), polyethylene, polystyrene, nylon, ABS
    (acrylonitrile butadiene styrene) and polyurethane. For
    additional information on the availability of raw materials, see
    ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS in this Report.

WORKING CAPITAL
    PRACTICES

The Company, along with other companies in its industry, is
    generally not subject to unusual working capital practices. The
    nature of the Company s business does not require
    significant amounts of inventories to be held to meet rapid
    delivery requirements of its products or services or assure the
    Company of a continuous allotment of goods from suppliers. The
    Company s manufacturing processes are generally performed
    with a short turnaround time. The Company does not generally
    offer extended payment terms to its customers. The Company
    generally allows its customers to return merchandise for failure
    to meet pre-agreed quality standards or specifications; however,
    the Company employs quality assurance practices that minimize
    customer returns.

COMPETITION

The Company s business is highly competitive. The Company
    competes with producers of basic plastic resins, many of which
    also operate compounding plants, as well as other independent
    plastic compounders. The producers of basic plastic resins
    generally are large producers of petroleum and chemicals, which
    are much larger than the Company and have greater financial
    resources. Some of these producers compete with the Company
    principally in such competitors  own respective local
    market areas, while other producers compete with the Company on
    a global basis.

The Company also competes with other merchants and distributors
    of plastic resins and other products. No accurate information is
    available to the Company as to the extent of its
    competitors  sales and earnings in respect of these
    activities, but management believes that the Company has only a
    small fraction of the total market.

The principal methods of competition in plastics manufacturing
    are innovation, price, availability of inventory, quality and
    service. The principal methods of competition in respect of
    merchant and distribution activities are price and service.
    Management believes it has strong financial capabilities,
    excellent supplier relationships and the ability to provide
    quality plastic compounds at competitive prices.

TRADEMARKS AND TRADE
    NAMES

The Company uses various trademarks and trade names in its
    business. These trademarks and trade names protect names of
    certain of the Company s products and are significant to
    the extent they provide a certain amount of goodwill and name
    recognition in the industry. The Company also holds patents in
    various parts of the world for certain of its products. These
    trademarks, trade names and patents, including those which are
    pending, contribute to profitability, however the Company does
    not consider its business to be dependent on such trademarks and
    trade names, except in the case of its new
    Invision   
    product line.

8

Table of Contents   

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company s annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    and current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    together with any amendments to those reports filed or furnished
    pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and
    Exchange Act of 1934, will be made available free of charge on
    the Company s web site, www.aschulman.com, as soon as
    reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with
    or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 1A.  

RISK FACTORS

The following are certain risk factors that could affect our
    business, results of operations, cash flows and financial
    condition. These risk factors should be considered in connection
    with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    because these factors could cause our actual results or
    financial condition to differ materially from those projected in
    forward-looking statements. Before you invest in us, you should
    know that making such an investment involves some risks,
    including the risks we describe below. The risks that are
    discussed below are not the only ones we face. If any of the
    following risks occur, our business, results of operations, cash
    flows or financial condition could be negatively affected.

If we fail to
    develop and commercialize new products, our business operations
    would be adversely affected.   

A significant portion of our anticipated growth is dependent
    upon the successful development and commercialization of new
    products, such as our
    Invision   
    product line. The development and commercialization of new
    products, including
    Invision   ,
    requires significant investments in research and development,
    production, and marketing costs. The successful production and
    commercialization of these products is uncertain as is the
    acceptance of the new products in the marketplace. If we fail to
    successfully develop and commercialize new products, or if
    customers decline to purchase the new products, we will not be
    able to recover our development investment and the growth
    prospects for our products will be adversely affected.

If we are
    unable to retain key personnel or attract new skilled personnel,
    it could have an adverse effect on our business.   

The unanticipated departure of any key member of our management
    team could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition,
    because of the specialized and technical nature of our business,
    our future performance is dependent on the continued service of,
    and on our ability to attract and retain, qualified management,
    scientific, technical, marketing and support personnel.
    Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may be unable
    to continue to attract or retain such personnel.

Our sales,
    profitability, operating results and cash flows are sensitive to
    global economic conditions and cyclicality, and could be
    adversely affected during economic downturns.   

General economic conditions and business conditions of our
    customers  industries affect demand for our products. The
    business of most of our customers, particularly our industrial,
    automotive, construction and electronics customers, can be
    cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic
    conditions. Political instability may lead to financial and
    economic instability, which could lead to deterioration in
    general global economic conditions. Downturns in the businesses
    that use our products will adversely affect our sales.
    Historically, downturns in general economic conditions have
    resulted in diminished product demand, excess manufacturing
    capacity and lower average selling prices, and we may experience
    similar problems in the future. In addition, downturns in our
    customers  industries, even during periods of strong
    general economic conditions, could adversely affect our sales,
    profitability, operating results and cash flows.

Price
    increases in raw materials and energy costs could adversely
    affect operating results and financial condition.   

We purchase various plastic resins to produce our proprietary
    plastic compounds. These resins, derived from petroleum or
    natural gas, have been subject to periods of rapid and
    significant movements in price. These fluctuations in price may
    be caused or aggravated by a number of factors, including
    political instability or hostilities in oil-producing countries
    and supply and demand changes. We may not be able to pass on
    increases in the prices of raw materials and energy to our
    customers. As a result, higher petroleum or natural gas costs
    could lead to declining margins, operating results and financial
    conditions.

9

Table of Contents   

A major
    failure of our information systems could harm our
    business.   

We depend upon integrated information systems to process orders,
    respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory, purchase, sell
    and ship goods on a timely basis, maintain cost-efficient
    operations, prepare financial information and reports, and
    operate our website. We may experience operating problems with
    our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses,
    computer  hackers  or other causes. Any significant
    disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause orders to be
    lost or delayed and could damage our reputation with our
    customers or cause our customers to cancel orders, which could
    adversely affect our results of operations.

Our
    manufacturing operations are subject to hazards and other risks
    associated with polymer production and the related storage and
    transportation of raw materials, products and
    wastes.   

Our manufacturing operations are subject to the possible hazards
    and risks associated with polymer production and the related
    storage and transportation of raw materials, products and
    wastes, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural
    disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime,
    transportation interruptions, remediation, chemical spills,
    discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases
    and other risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and
    loss of life, severe damage to, or destruction of, property and
    equipment and environmental contamination. In addition, the
    occurrence of material operating problems at our facilities due
    to any of these hazards may diminish our ability to meet our
    output goals. Accordingly, these hazards, and their consequences
    could have a material adverse effect on our operations as a
    whole, including our results of operations and cash flows, both
    during and after the period of operational difficulties.

Extensive
    environmental, health and safety laws and regulations impact our
    operations and assets, and compliance, or lack of compliance,
    with these regulations could adversely affect our results of
    operations.   

Our operations on and ownership of real property are subject to
    extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations
    at the national, state and local governmental levels. The nature
    of our business exposes us to risks of liability under these
    laws and regulations due to the production, storage,
    transportation, recycling or disposal
     and/or  sale
    of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury if
    they are released into the environment or workplace.
    Environmental laws may have a significant effect on the costs of
    these activities involving raw materials, finished products and
    wastes. We may incur substantial costs, including fines,
    damages, criminal or civil sanctions, remediation costs, or
    experience interruptions in our operations for violations of
    these laws.

Also, national and state environmental statutes impose strict,
    and under some circumstances, joint and several liability for
    the cost of investigations and remedial actions on any company
    that generated the waste, arranged for disposal of the waste,
    transported the waste to the disposal site or selected the
    disposal site, as well as on the owners and operators of these
    sites. Any or all of the responsible parties may be required to
    bear all of the costs of clean up, regardless of fault or
    legality of the waste disposal or ownership of the site, and may
    also be subject to liability for natural resource damages. It is
    possible that we will be identified as a potentially responsible
    party at more sites in the future, which could result in our
    being assessed substantial investigation or clean up costs.

Accruals for estimated costs, including, among other things, the
    ranges associated with our accruals for future environmental
    compliance and remediation may be too low or we may not be able
    to quantify the potential costs. We may be subject to additional
    environmental liabilities or potential liabilities that have not
    been identified. We expect that we will continue to be subject
    to increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws
    and regulations. We believe that compliance with these laws and
    regulations may, but does not currently, require significant
    capital expenditures and operating costs, which could adversely
    affect our results of operations or financial condition.

We face
    competition from other polymer companies, which could adversely
    affect our sales and financial condition.   

We operate in a highly competitive marketplace, competing
    against a number of domestic and foreign polymer producers.
    Competition is based on several key criteria, including product
    performance and quality, product price, product availability and
    security of supply, responsiveness of product development in
    cooperation with customers and customer service. Some of our
    competitors are larger than we are and may have greater
    financial resources. These competitors may also be able to
    maintain significantly greater operating and financial
    flexibility than we do. As a result, these competitors may be
    better able to withstand changes in conditions within our
    industry, changes in the prices of raw materials and energy and
    in

10

Table of Contents   

general economic conditions. Additionally, competitors 
    pricing decisions could compel us to decrease our prices, which
    could affect our margins and profitability adversely. Our
    ability to maintain or increase our profitability is, and will
    continue to be, dependent upon our ability to offset decreases
    in the prices and margins of our products by improving
    production efficiency and volume, shifting to higher margin
    products and improving existing products through innovation and
    research and development. If we are unable to do so or to
    otherwise maintain our competitive position, we could lose
    market share to our competitors.

We expect that our competitors will continue to develop and
    introduce new and enhanced products, which could cause a decline
    in the market acceptance of our products. In addition, our
    competitors could cause a reduction in the selling prices of
    some of our products as a result of intensified price
    competition. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss
    of major customers. An inability to compete successfully could
    have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows. We may also experience increased
    competition from companies that offer products based on
    alternative technologies and processes that may be more
    competitive or better in price or performance, causing us to
    lose customers and result in a decline in our sales volume and
    earnings.

We may incur
    significant charges in the event we close all or part of a
    manufacturing plant or facility.   

We periodically assess our manufacturing operations in order to
    manufacture and distribute our products in the most efficient
    manner. Based on our assessments, we may make capital
    improvements to modernize certain units, move manufacturing or
    distribution capabilities from one plant or facility to another
    plant or facility, discontinue manufacturing or distributing
    certain products or close all or part of a manufacturing plant
    or facility. We also have shared services agreements at several
    of our plants and if such agreements are terminated or revised,
    we would assess and potentially adjust our manufacturing
    operations. The closure of all or part of a manufacturing plant
    or facility could result in future charges which could be
    significant.

Our
    substantial international operations subject us to risks of
    doing business in foreign countries, which could adversely
    affect our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.   

We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside of the
    United States. We and our joint ventures currently have ten
    manufacturing facilities located outside the United States,
    including facilities and offices located in Mexico, Canada,
    Belgium, France, Germany, Poland, Hungary, Indonesia, Italy,
    Spain, Switzerland, China, Luxembourg, Denmark and the United
    Kingdom. We expect sales from international markets to continue
    to represent a significant portion of our net sales.
    Accordingly, our business is subject to risks related to the
    differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements
    and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent in
    international operations include the following:

fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may
    adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of
    products and services we provide in international markets where
    payment for our products and services is made in the local
    currency;

intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce;

foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or
    otherwise tax our foreign income, or adopt other restrictions on
    foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange
    controls;

unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory
    requirements may occur;

agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult
    to collect;

compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be
    burdensome;

unexpected adverse changes in export duties, quotas and tariffs
    and difficulties in obtaining export licenses;

general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate
    could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in
    those countries;

foreign operations may experience staffing difficulties and
    labor disputes;

foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises;

11

Table of Contents   

our business and profitability in a particular country could be
    affected by political or economic repercussions on a domestic,
    country specific or global level from terrorist activities and
    the response to such activities; and

unanticipated events, such as geopolitical changes, could result
    in a write-down of our investment in the affected joint venture
    in Indonesia.

Our success as a global business will depend, in part, upon our
    ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic,
    social and political conditions by developing, implementing and
    maintaining policies and strategies that are effective in each
    location where we and our joint ventures do business.

Other
    increases in operating costs could affect our
    profitability.   

Scheduled or unscheduled maintenance programs could cause
    significant production outages, higher costs
     and/or 
    reduced production capacity at our equity affiliates and
    suppliers due to the industry in which they operate. The
    inability to achieve or the delay in achieving the anticipated
    financial benefits from our cost reduction initiatives and
    employee productivity goals could also affect our future
    profitability.

Our business
    depends upon good relations with our employees.   

We may experience difficulties in maintaining appropriate
    relations with unions and employees in certain locations. About
    80% of our hourly employees at our operations are represented by
    labor unions. In addition, problems or changes affecting
    employees in certain locations may affect relations with our
    employees at other locations. The risk of labor disputes, work
    stoppages or other disruptions in production could adversely
    affect us. If we cannot successfully negotiate or renegotiate
    collective bargaining agreements or if the negotiations take an
    excessive amount of time, there may be a heightened risk of a
    prolonged work stoppage. Any work stoppage could have a material
    adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a
    manufacturing facility or on our operations as a whole.

Our business
    and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are
    unable to protect our material trademarks and other proprietary
    information.   

We have numerous valuable patents, trade secrets and know-how,
    domain names, trademarks and trade names, including certain
    marks that are material to our business, which are identified
    under Item 1 of this Report. Despite our efforts to protect
    our trademarks and other proprietary rights from unauthorized
    use or disclosure, other parties, including our former employees
    or consultants, may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our
    proprietary information or marks without our authorization.
    Unauthorized use of our trademarks, or unauthorized use or
    disclosure of our other intellectual property, could negatively
    impact our business and financial condition.

Although our
    pension and postretirement plans are currently adequately
    funded, events could occur that would require us to make
    significant contributions to the plans and reduce the cash
    available for our business.   

We have several defined benefit pension and postretirement plans
    around the world, including in the United States, covering most
    of our employees. We are required to make cash contributions to
    our pension plans to the extent necessary to comply with minimum
    funding requirements imposed by the various countries 
    benefit and tax laws. The amount of any such required
    contributions will be determined annually based on an actuarial
    valuation of the plans as performed by the plans  actuaries
    and as required by law. The amount we may elect or be required
    to contribute to our pension plans in the future may increase
    significantly. Specifically, if year-end accumulated obligations
    exceed assets, we may elect to make a voluntary contribution,
    over and above the minimum required, in order to avoid charges
    to our balance sheet and consequent reductions to
    shareholders  equity. These contributions could be
    substantial and would reduce the cash available for our business.

Increasing
    cost of employee healthcare may decrease our
    profitability.   

The cost of providing healthcare coverage for our employees is
    continually increasing. If healthcare costs continue to rise at
    a rapid pace, the Company may not be able to or willing to pass
    on those costs to employees. Therefore, if we are unable to
    offset continued rising healthcare costs through improved
    operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, the increased
    costs of employee healthcare may result in declining margins and
    operating results.

12

Table of Contents   

Changes in tax
    laws could have an adverse impact on our earnings.   

Changes to tax laws, rules and regulations, including changes in
    the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and
    regulations by the Internal Revenue Service or other domestic or
    foreign governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and
    unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional
    compliance costs and tax liabilities which could have an adverse
    impact on our earnings.

Specific acts
    of terrorism may disrupt operations and cause increased costs
    and liabilities.   

The threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events in
    the United States or abroad could affect us in unpredictable
    ways. Terrorist threats or events could create political or
    economic instability, affecting our business in general. The
    increased costs related to heightened security or insurance
    coverage could also have a negative impact on our financial
    condition. Such threats or events could also result in
    operational disruption, including difficulty in obtaining raw
    materials, difficulty in delivering products to customers, or
    general delay and inefficiencies in our supply chain.
    Additionally, our manufacturing facilities, both within the
    United States and those located abroad, may become direct
    targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks, leading to
    severe damage including loss of life and loss of property.

Increased
    indebtedness could restrict growth and adversely affect our
    financial health.   

As of August 31, 2006, our debt on a consolidated basis was
    approximately $131.7 million. We are more heavily leveraged
    than in the past and an increase in the level of indebtedness
    could have significant consequences. For example, it could:

limit our ability to satisfy current debt obligations;

increase interest expense due to the change in interest rates
    and increase in debt levels;

require us to dedicate a significant portion of cash flow to
    repay principal and pay interest on the debt, reducing the
    amount of funds that would be available to finance operations
    and other business activities;

impair our ability to obtain financing in the future for working
    capital, capital expenditures, research and development, or
    acquisitions;

make us vulnerable to economic downturns or adverse developments
    in our business or markets; and

place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors
    with less debt.

We expect to pay expenses and to pay principal and interest on
    current and future debt from cash provided by operating
    activities. Therefore, our ability to meet these payment
    obligations will depend on future financial performance which is
    subject in part to numerous economic, business and financial
    factors beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital
    resources are insufficient to fund our increased debt, we may be
    forced to reduce or delay expansion plans and capital
    expenditures, limit payment of dividends, sell material assets
    or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt.

Litigation
    from customers, employees or others could adversely affect our
    financial condition.   

From time to time, we may be subject to claims or legal action
    from customers, employees
     and/or 
    others. Whether these claims and legal action are founded or
    unfounded, if these claims and legal actions are not resolved in
    our favor, they may result in significant financial liability
     and/or 
    adversely affect market perception of the Company and our
    products. Any financial liability or reputation damage could
    have a material adverse effect on our business. This, in turn,
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
    and results of operations.

We are
    dependent upon good relationships with our various suppliers,
    vendors and distributors.   

We rely upon good relationships with a number of different
    suppliers, vendors and distributors. If our relationships with
    these parties were to deteriorate or if a number of these
    parties should elect to discontinue doing business with us, our
    business operations could be adversely affected.

13

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1B.  

UNRESOLVED STAFF
    COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2.  

PROPERTIES

The Company owns and operates seven plants in North America, six
    in Europe and two in Asia. The following table indicates the
    location of each plastics compounding plant, the approximate
    annual plastics compounding capacity and approximate floor area,
    including warehouse and office space and the geographic segment
    that is principally supported by such plant:

The Company considers each of the foregoing facilities to be in
    good condition and suitable for its purposes.

(1)  

The approximate annual plastics compounding capacity set forth
    in this table is an estimate and is based upon several factors,
    including the daily and shift operating schedules that are
    customary in the area where each facility is located. Another
    factor is the approximate historical mix of specific types of
    plastic compounds manufactured at each plant. A plant operating
    at full capacity will produce a greater or lesser quantity (in
    pounds) depending upon the specific plastic compound then being
    manufactured. The annual poundage of plastic compounds
    manufactured does not, in itself, reflect the extent of
    utilization of the Company s plants or the profitability of
    the plastic compounds produced. 

(2)  

Includes capacity of approximately 20 million pounds from
    two manufacturing lines owned by The Sunprene Company, a
    partnership in which the Company has a 70% partnership interest. 

(3)  

Includes approximately 14,500 square feet of space
    comprising the Company s Color Technology Center. 

(4)  

Includes a pilot line for the new
    Invision   
    sheet product which is measured by the square foot. This is not
    currently included in the Company s calculation of capacity
    utilization as it is a pilot line. The initial production line
    in the Company s Sharon Center facility is nearing
    completion and is scheduled for
     start-up  in
    January 2007 with the ability to produce saleable product
    expected shortly thereafter. 

Public warehouses are used wherever needed to store the
    Company s products conveniently for shipment to customers.
    The number of public warehouses in use varies from time to time.
    Currently, usage approximates 16 in North America and 67 in
    Europe. The Company believes an adequate supply of suitable
    public warehouse facilities is available to it.

14

Table of Contents   

The Company owns its corporate headquarters, which is located in
    Akron, Ohio and which contains approximately 48,000 square
    feet of office space. The Company leases sales offices in
    various locations in North America, Europe and Asia.

The Company also owns a 158,000 square foot facility in
    Akron, Ohio that, until December 31, 2000, was a
    manufacturing operation. The facility is now used for
    warehousing, logistics, product sampling and product development.

The Company also owns a 145,000 square foot facility in
    Orange, Texas, that, until August 31, 2003, was a
    manufacturing facility. The facility is now used for warehousing
    and logistics.

ITEM 3.  

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is engaged in various legal proceedings arising in
    the ordinary course of business. The ultimate outcome of these
    proceedings is not expected to have a material adverse effect on
    the Company s financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.

During fiscal 2006, a railroad company filed suit against the
    Company seeking compensatory damages and reimbursement of
    environmental costs to investigate and remediate property
    located near its Bellevue, Ohio facility. The Company
    subsequently filed an answer to this complaint and both parties
    are now conducting discovery. Management of the Company, in
    consultation with legal counsel, is of the opinion that a valid
    cause of action does not exist. The Company will continue to
    pursue resolution of this matter. The Company has not recorded a
    reserve relating to this matter. The ultimate outcome of this
    matter is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.

ITEM 4.  

SUBMISSION OF
    MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during
    the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006.

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY  

The age (as of October 9, 2006), business experience during
    the past five years and offices presently held by each of the
    Company s Executive Officers are reported below. The
    Company s By-Laws provide that officers shall hold office
    until their successors are elected and qualified.

Terry L. Haines: Age 60; President and Chief Executive
    Officer of the Company since January 1991.

Paul F. DeSantis: Age 42; Chief Financial Officer and
    Treasurer of the Company since April 2006; joined the Company as
    Vice President of Finance in January 2006; prior to that time,
    he was with Scott s Miracle-Gro where he held various
    financial roles since 1997 before becoming Vice President and
    Corporate Treasurer of the Company in 2003.

Alain C. Adam: Age 57; Vice President   Global
    Automotive Market Development of the Company since March 2006;
    prior to that time Vice President   International
    Automotive Operations since September 1, 1999.

Barry A. Rhodes: Age 46; Executive Vice President and Chief
    Operating Officer of North America since March 2006; prior to
    that time Vice President   North American Sales and
    Marketing since October 2001.

John M. Myles: Age 62; Vice President   Research
    and Development since October 28, 2003; prior to that time,
    Vice President   North American Purchasing since
    October 1997.

Ronald G. Andres: Age 56; Vice President   North
    American Operations since March 2006; prior to that time, Vice
    President   North American Manufacturing since
    October 20, 1999.

Gary J. Elek: Age 54; Vice President and Controller for
    North America since March 2006; prior to that Corporate
    Controller since February 2004; prior to that time, Executive
    Vice President, Corporate Development of FirstMerit Corporation
    from 1997 to 2004.

15

Table of Contents   

PART II  

ITEM 5.  

MARKET FOR THE
    COMPANY S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
    ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The Company s Common Stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock
    Market LLC under the symbol  SHLM.  At
    October 31, 2006, there were 545 holders of record of the
    Company s Common Stock. This figure does not include
    beneficial owners who hold shares in nominee name. The closing
    stock price on October 31, 2006 was $24.21.

The quarterly high and low closing stock prices for fiscal 2006
    and 2005 are presented in the table below.

The quarterly cash dividends declared for fiscal 2006 and 2005
    are presented in the table below.

On April 25, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of
    Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 6.75 million
    shares of its outstanding common stock (the  Repurchase
    Program ). This authorized share amount in the Repurchase
    Program equated to approximately 23.3% of the Company s
    outstanding shares at the authorization date. It is anticipated
    that the Company will complete the Repurchase Program through
    open market repurchases from time to time. The number of shares
    to be repurchased and the timing of repurchases will depend upon
    the prevailing market prices and any other considerations that
    may, in the opinion of the Board of Directors or management,
    affect the advisability of repurchasing shares. The Repurchase
    Program replaced the Company s prior repurchase
    authorization, under which approximately 1.7 million shares
    had remained authorized for repurchase. The Company s
    purchases of its common stock under the Repurchase Program
    during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 were as follows:

16

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6.  

SELECTED FINANCIAL
    DATA

ITEM  7.  

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS  

2006  

Net income for the 2006 fiscal year was $32.7 million, or
    $1.07 per diluted share, compared to last year s net
    income of $32.1 million, or $1.03 per diluted share. Net
    income in fiscal 2006 increased slightly as compared to the
    prior year and earnings per diluted share increased due to the
    reduced number of common shares outstanding as a result of the
    Company s share repurchase program that was implemented in
    fiscal 2006 and the purchase of the Company s common shares
    through a self-tender offer. The translation effect of foreign
    currencies, primarily the euro, decreased net income by
    $1.6 million or $0.05 per diluted share.

The Company had record sales performance and improved its gross
    margin in fiscal 2006; however the following significant and
    unusual items occurred that impacted net income by approximately
    $7.3 million:

Charge related to the extinguishment of debt of approximately
    $5.0 million;

Charges of approximately $1.2 related to ongoing tax audits;

Income from a life insurance settlement of approximately
    $0.5 million;

Tax charge of approximately $2.2 million related to the
    repatriation of dividends from Europe; and

Income of approximately $0.6 million resulting from
    compensation received from the cancellation by suppliers of
    certain European distribution agreements.

Net income also included approximately $4.5 million of
    expense related to the Company s adoption of SFAS 123R
    in fiscal 2006. There were no charges related to SFAS 123R
    in fiscal year 2005.

17

Table of Contents   

Net consolidated sales for fiscal 2006 were $1.616 billion,
    an increase of 12.8% over sales of $1.433 billion in fiscal
    2005. A comparison of net consolidated sales by business
    segments, which are North America and Europe, including Asia
    ( Europe ), is as follows:

The components of the percentage change in 2006 net
    consolidated sales are as follows:

Worldwide tonnage was up 9.1% for the year as European tonnage
    was up 14.8% offsetting a North American tonnage decrease of
    2.1%. The increase in European tonnage was a result of the
    improved European economic environment while North American
    tonnage declined slightly due to competition and weakness in the
    marketplace. The translation effect of foreign currencies,
    primarily the euro, decreased net consolidated sales by
    approximately $29.2 million or 2.0% in fiscal 2006.

The two largest markets served by the Company are the packaging
    and automotive markets. The approximate percentage of net
    consolidated sales by market for 2006 compared to 2005 is as
    follows:

Other markets include appliances, construction, medical,
    consumer products, electrical/electronics, office equipment and
    agriculture.

The majority of the Company s consolidated sales can be
    classified into five primary product families. The approximate
    amount and percentage of consolidated sales for these product
    families compared to the previous year are as follows:

18

Table of Contents   

A comparison of gross profit dollars and percentages by business
    segment for 2006 and 2005 is as follows:

Gross profit margin increased twenty basis points on a year to
    year comparison to 13.6% in fiscal 2006 from 13.4% in fiscal
    2005.

The increase of $17.5 million in gross profit dollars in
    Europe in fiscal 2006 was primarily driven by the increased
    tonnage as the gross profit percentage remained relatively flat
    as compared to fiscal 2005. North America also showed a
    significant increase in gross profit in fiscal 2006 as gross
    profits were up $9.8 million or 21.3% from fiscal 2005.
    This improvement in gross profit was the result of favorable
    pricing and changes in product mix. Overall, the Company enjoyed
    an increase in gross profit per pound in fiscal 2006, most
    notably in North America.

A comparison of capacity utilization levels is as follows:

Worldwide capacity utilization increased by 5%. The increase in
    European capacity utilization was the result of stronger
    customer demand and product mix. In order to meet this increased
    demand, some of Europe s manufacturing facilities
    temporarily added additional production shifts above the normal
    production schedule during the second half of fiscal 2006. North
    American capacity utilization decreased slightly from 2005 as a
    result of continuing softening demand, the shutdown of the
    largest production line at the Company s Texas facility due
    to a mechanical issue and a two-week shutdown at the same Texas
    facility because of Hurricane Rita.

A comparison of operating income (loss) by business segment for
    the years 2006 and 2005 is as follows:

The increase of $16.3 million in European operating income
    was primarily the result of the higher level of sales driven by
    the $17.5 million or 11.9% increase in gross profit and
    14.8% increase in tonnage from the prior year. European
    operating expenses in fiscal 2006 remained relatively flat with
    fiscal 2005 although the translation effect of foreign
    currencies decreased operating expenses by $2.4 million.
    Operating income in North America in fiscal 2006 improved
    $1.9 million from the prior year, primarily because of
    favorable pricing and product mix which increased gross profit
    from the prior year. This increase was offset by an increase in
    operating expenses as explained in the next paragraph.

Total Company selling, general and administrative expenses were
    $148.5 million for fiscal 2006, up $10.7 million or
    7.7% compared with fiscal 2005 s total of
    $137.8 million. The translation effect of foreign
    currencies had a favorable impact,

19

Table of Contents   

decreasing these expenses by $2.1 million in 2006.
    Increases in these expenses, of which the majority are in North
    America, included stock-based compensation expense related to
    the Company s adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards (SFAS), SFAS 123R in fiscal 2006 of
    $4.5 million, costs associated with the Company s CFO
    transition, incentive compensation which was driven by the
    Company s increasing common stock price, legal and
    professional fees, medical insurance and various IT related
    projects. SFAS 123R accounted for approximately half of the
    increase in selling, general and administrative expenses.

On September 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS 123R,
    Share-Based Payment, which requires the Company to measure all
    employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair value
    method and record the related expense in the financial
    statements. The Company elected to use the modified prospective
    transition method. The modified prospective transition method
    requires that compensation cost be recognized in the financial
    statements for all awards granted after the date of adoption as
    well as for existing awards for which the requisite service has
    not been rendered as of the date of adoption and requires that
    prior periods not be restated. All periods presented prior to
    September 1, 2005 were accounted for in accordance with
    Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for
    Stock Issued to Employees, and followed a nominal vesting period
    approach.

The adoption of SFAS 123R reduced income before taxes for
    year ended August 31, 2006 by approximately
    $4.5 million ($0.15 per basic and diluted share).
    These expenses are included in selling, general and
    administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated
    statement of income. The first quarter of fiscal 2006 included
    approximately $1.0 million of charges related to the
    accelerated vesting of retirement eligible employees under the
    non-substantive vesting period approach applied to new grants
    after adoption. The expense recorded did not impact income tax
    expense since the Company s deferred tax assets are fully
    reserved by a valuation allowance. There was no impact to the
    statement of cash flows related to the adoption of
    SFAS 123R. In addition, Unearned Stock Grant Compensation
    of $3.2 million was reclassified to Other Capital in
    Stockholders  Equity upon adoption of SFAS 123R.

A large part of the Company s technical activities relate
    to the continuous refinement of compounds for specific
    applications of customers. Research activities relating to the
    development of new products and the improvement of existing
    products are important to the Company. These activities are
    conducted at the Company s various technical centers and
    laboratories. Research and development expenditures were
    approximately $4.7 million in fiscal 2006 and approximately
    $3.8 million in fiscal 2005. The increase in these
    activities is primarily related to the new
    Invision   
    sheet product.

Interest expense was $6.2 million in fiscal 2006 compared
    to $3.7 million in fiscal 2005. The increase of
    $2.5 million was the result of an increased level of
    borrowings required for the Company s common stock tender
    offer and open market common stock repurchase plans which were
    implemented in fiscal 2006.

Foreign currency transaction losses represent changes in the
    value of currencies in major areas where the Company operates.
    During fiscal 2006 the Company incurred foreign currency
    transaction losses of approximately $2.1 million compared
    to approximately $2.8 million in fiscal 2005. The
    strengthening of the Canadian dollar accounted for
    $1.3 million of this loss in fiscal 2006.

Minority interest represents a 30% equity position of Mitsubishi
    Chemical MKV Company in a partnership with the Company and a 35%
    equity position of P.T. Prima Polycon Indah in an
    Indonesian joint venture with the Company.

Other income in fiscal 2006 was approximately $1.9 million,
    which included income of $0.8 million from the cancellation
    by suppliers of certain distribution arrangements in Europe and
    the receipt of a life insurance settlement of approximately
    $0.5 million. Other income of $0.9 million in 2005
    included approximately $0.8 million of income related to
    gain on the sale of an office in Europe.

In connection with the Company s new financing
    arrangements, as discussed hereafter in the  Liquidity and
    Capital Resources  section, the Company prepaid its
    $50.0 million private placement 7.27% senior notes and
    terminated its

20

Table of Contents   

$100.0 million revolving credit arrangement. The Company
    recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately
    $5.0 million which was comprised of the following:

A reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal income tax
    rate with the effective tax rates of 47.4% in 2006 and 35.0% in
    2005 is as follows:

One of the Company s major facilities in Texas was closed
    for a two-week period in September 2005 because of Hurricane
    Rita. In addition, a warehouse in Texas also incurred damage
    from Hurricane Rita. While repair work continues and operations
    have returned to normal, the financial impact from this
    hurricane is still being assessed. The claim for this hurricane
    has been filed with the insurance carriers, but the ultimate
    amount of any gain or loss related to this claim has not yet
    been determined. It is anticipated that amounts not covered by
    insurance will not have a material impact on future earnings.

In September 2005, the Company introduced its new
    Invision   
    sheet product and formed A. Schulman Invision, Inc., a wholly
    owned subsidiary.
    Invision   
    is a revolutionary product based on cutting-edge technology that
    is expected to provide high growth opportunities in many markets
    around the world.
    Invision   
    is a multi-layered, extruded sheet product that reduces costs
    and simplifies the manufacturing process for the Company s
    customers, while providing a higher-performing and more
    environmentally friendly alternative to existing plastic and
    film materials that are painted or colored. The Company expects
    Invision   
    to appeal to customers in a variety of markets, both automotive
    and non-automotive. Initially, the Company will focus on
    automotive applications to capitalize on the Company s
    market presence and recognized capabilities. Samples from the
    Company s pilot line have been tested by several potential
    customers and the Company has received positive feedback based
    on the initial results of these tests. The initial production
    line in the Company s Sharon Center facility is nearing
    completion and is scheduled for
     start-up  in
    January 2007 with the ability to produce saleable product
    expected shortly thereafter. In addition, the Company has
    purchased land for a greenfield plant site in Findlay, Ohio for
    construction of a dedicated
    Invision   
    facility. While
    Invision   
    did not produce operating income in fiscal 2006, the Company
    believes this is a very large market that could have significant
    sales in the years ahead.

In October 2006, in order to balance capacity with demand,
    reduce costs and improve efficiencies in North America, the
    Company announced its intentions to close two of its
    manufacturing lines at its Orange, Texas plant, close a
    warehouse also located in Orange, Texas and reduce the workforce
    at its Bellevue, Ohio plant. As a result, the Company expects to
    record a charge during fiscal 2007 in an estimated range of
    $1.0 million to $3.0 million. The Company expects the
    charge to include

21

Table of Contents   

costs such as severance payments, medical insurance, accelerated
    depreciation, equipment removal costs, other exit costs and the
    impact on its postretirement obligation due to the reduction in
    the workforce.

In October 2005, the Company reached an agreement with a group
    of investors led by Barington Capital Group, L.P. (the
     Barington Group ) which then had an ownership
    position of approximately 8.7% of the Company s outstanding
    stock (the  2005 Agreement ). Under the terms of the
    agreement, among other things, the Barington Group withdrew its
    notice of intent to nominate persons for election as directors
    at the Company s 2005 Annual Meeting and agreed to abide by
    certain standstill provisions until the Company s 2007
    Annual Meeting (the  Standstill Period ), while the
    Company, through its Board of Directors, expanded the size of
    the Board from 10 to 12 and appointed James A. Mitarotonda, a
    member of the Barington Group, to serve as a director until the
    2007 Annual Meeting. The Company also agreed to initiate and
    consummate a self-tender offer by April 30, 2006.

On February 21, 2006 the Company announced that its Board
    of Directors approved a modified Dutch auction self-tender offer
    for up to 8.75 million shares of its common stock, at a
    price between $21.00 and $24.00 per share. The Company
    commenced the self-tender offer on March 1, 2006 and it
    expired on April 11, 2006. On April 25, 2006 the
    Company announced the final results of the self-tender offer
    where the Company accepted for purchase 2,071,585 shares at
    a price of $24.00 per share for a total of approximately
    $49.7 million. The Company also incurred costs in
    connection with the self-tender of $0.5 million in legal
    and professional fees.

On May 30, 2006, the Barington Group filed Amendment
    No. 9 to its
     Schedule 13-D 
    disclosing certain changes, among group members and in the
    aggregate, of the beneficial ownership of the Company s
    common stock. The Barington Group disclosed its positions that
    completion of the self-tender offer by the Company without
    repurchasing 8,750,000 shares of common stock constituted a
    failure of the Company to fulfill its obligations under the 2005
    Agreement and therefore the Standstill Period terminated after
    the close of business on April 30, 2006. Among other
    things, termination of the Standstill Period would eliminate
    certain restrictions on the ability of Barington Group members
    to purchase additional shares of common stock of the Company and
    to solicit proxies in connection with the Company s 2006
    Annual Meeting.

In October 2006, the Company reached another agreement with the
    Barington Group, which as of the date of the agreement owned in
    the aggregate 2,816,536 shares, or approximately 10.5% of
    the Company s common stock (the  2006
    Agreement ). Under the terms of the 2006 Agreement, the
    Barington Group withdrew a notice of its intent to nominate
    certain persons for election as directors at the 2006 annual
    meeting, agreed to dismiss a lawsuit it had filed against the
    Company in Delaware seeking to enforce its rights as a
    stockholder to inspect and copy certain books, records and
    documents of the Company, and agreed to abide by certain
    standstill provisions until the Company s 2007 annual
    meeting. The Company agreed, among other things, to nominate
    James S. Marlen, Ernest J. Novak, Jr. (each current
    directors of the Company), Howard R. Curd and Michael A.
    McManus, Jr. on the Board s slate of nominees for
    election as Class II directors of the Company at the 2006
    annual meeting. The 2006 Agreement also superseded the 2005
    Agreement, except with respect to Sections 5(d), 6(a) and 9
    of the 2005 Agreement.

The foregoing descriptions of certain of the terms of the 2005
    Agreement and the 2006 Agreement are qualified in their entirety
    by reference to the full text of the agreements, each of which
    are attached as Exhibit 99.2 to the
     Forms 8-K 
    filed by the Company on October 24, 2005 and
    October 26, 2006.

During fiscal 2006 the Company made significant progress toward
    improving its North American business. The Company is currently
    working on several initiatives that management believes will add
    significant value in the next few years which include sales
    price optimization, purchase price reductions, inventory
    reductions, continued freight cost reductions, manufacturing
    conversion cost reductions and production process refinement.

The Company is focused and dedicated to continuous improvement
    in the challenging and competitive business climate in which it
    operates. As fiscal 2006 came to a close, gross margins in North
    America continued to improve despite strong competition and
    weakness in the marketplace. Heading into fiscal 2007, demand
    has weakened in North America primarily in the automotive
    industry. On a longer-term basis, the prospects of
    Invision   
    remain significant as the Company proceeds with the
    commercialization of this new technology.

22

Table of Contents   

2005  

Net income for the 2005 fiscal year was $32.1 million or
    $1.03 per diluted share, an increase of 15% over fiscal
    2004 s net income of $27.9 million or $0.91 per
    diluted share. The translation effect of foreign currencies,
    primarily the euro, increased net income by $2.7 million or
    $0.09 per share.

The primary reason for the increase in fiscal 2005 net
    income was a reduction in the effective tax rate to 35.0% in
    2005 from 48.9% in 2004. The tax rate was lower due to
    $3.3 million or $0.11 per share of tax benefits from
    tax reserves no longer required due to a change in Mexican tax
    laws as of January 1, 2005. The change in Mexican tax law
    impacted the timing of recognizing inventory purchases in cost
    of sales. The change had an immediate effect of increasing
    Mexican taxable income and thus allowing the Company to utilize
    tax credits previously paid on a net asset tax. The tax credits
    had a full valuation allowance previously recorded thus the
    change in tax law allowed the Company to remove the valuation
    allowance on the net asset tax credits resulting in an income
    tax benefit. In addition, the Company received a favorable
    settlement of a transfer pricing audit assessment in Canada of
    $1.1 million or $.03 per share. The Company had
    recorded a tax reserve related to anticipated transfer pricing
    adjustments between the U.S. and Canada. During February 2005
    the Company received notification from the Canadian tax
    authorities that they were formally withdrawing the proposed
    assessment for transfer pricing. Accordingly, the tax reserve
    was no longer considered necessary and was reversed. In
    addition, there was a reduction in losses in the United States
    where no tax benefits are currently recognized.

Net income for fiscal 2005 also included a net gain of
    $0.5 million or $0.02 per share from the sale of an
    office in Europe and $1.0 million or $0.03 per share from
    the refinement in assumptions relating to freight in North
    America. Enhancements to the Company s information system
    provided new information for estimating freight liabilities for
    outbound customer shipments. The estimating of freight
    liabilities is required due to the lag in time between the
    incurrence of freight expenses and the eventual receipt and
    validation of the freight vendor s invoices. As a result of
    the new information, the Company revised its estimate and
    recorded a favorable adjustment which decreased cost of sales
    and increased net income. Net income for fiscal 2004 included
    restructuring charges of $2.1 million or $0.07 per
    share, an impairment charge for goodwill of $1.8 million or
    $0.06 per share and a charge of $1.4 million or
    $0.05 per share for a valuation allowance on tax assets not
    recoverable.

Net consolidated sales for 2005 were $1.433 billion, an
    increase of 15.7% over sales of $1.239 billion for the
    comparable period in 2004. A comparison of net consolidated
    sales by business segment is as follows:

The translation effect of foreign currencies, primarily the
    euro, increased consolidated sales by $59.9 million in
    2005. The components of the percentage change in 2005
    consolidated sales are as follows:

Worldwide tonnage was up 0.5% for the year, European tonnage was
    up 4.8% while North American volume decreased 7.2%. The increase
    in Europe was primarily attributable to the manufacturing and
    merchant activities. In North America, tonnage declined for
    manufacturing and the sale of commodity products.

23

Table of Contents   

The two largest markets served by the Company are the packaging
    and automotive markets. The approximate percentage of
    consolidated sales by market for 2005 compared to 2004 is as
    follows:

Sales to the automotive market declined due to pricing, margin
    pressure and efforts by the industry to reduce unit inventory.
    Other markets include appliances, construction, medical,
    consumer products, electrical/electronics, office equipment and
    agriculture.

The majority of the Company s consolidated sales can be
    classified into five primary product families. The approximate
    amount and percentage of consolidated sales for these product
    families compared to the previous year are as follows:

A comparison of gross profit dollars and percentages by business
    segment for 2005 and 2004 is as follows:

The gross profit margin was 13.4% in fiscal 2005 compared with
    14.8% in fiscal 2004. The decline in margin was the result of
    higher raw material costs due to increased energy prices and the
    lag in passing on such increases in the form of higher selling
    prices. The reduction in margin had an adverse effect of
    approximately $17.0 million on pre-tax income.

Gross profit dollars in Europe were up from 2004 primarily due
    to the positive impact of the euro, which increased margins by
    $8.1 million in fiscal 2005. The decline in the European
    gross profit percentage was due to rising raw material prices
    and the lag in passing on cost increases in the form of higher
    sales prices.

North American gross profit in 2005 increased $2.4 million
    or 5.4% from 2004. Gross profit in 2005 includes a
    $1.0 million refinement in assumptions relating to freight,
    as discussed previously. In addition, gross profit in 2004 was
    reduced by $1.4 million for restructuring charges in
    Nashville pertaining to accelerated depreciation on disposed
    equipment.

24

Table of Contents   

A comparison of capacity utilization levels is as follows:

Capacity utilization decreased by 3% worldwide. The decrease in
    European capacity utilization was due primarily to the
    production capacity added for a new facility in China. The China
    plant, which has an estimated annual production capacity of
    approximately 35 million pounds, utilized only 20% of its
    capacity in 2005, its first year of production. North American
    capacity utilization was flat in 2005.

A comparison of operating income (loss) by business segment for
    the years 2005 and 2004 is as follows:

The decrease of $4.2 million in European income was
    primarily the result of higher operating expenses of
    $11.8 million, including increased costs of
    $2.5 million related to compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley
    requirements. In addition, the translation effect of foreign
    currencies increased operating expenses by $4.4 million.
    The balance of the increase consisted of $0.4 million for a
    major trade show, increased costs for compensation and other
    expenses required to support a higher level of sales. The
    increase in expenses offset higher gross profit from an increase
    in sales. Income in North America declined $3.5 million,
    primarily because of higher Sarbanes-Oxley compliance expenses
    of $1.3 million and the adverse effects of currency
    transaction losses. These transaction losses include
    $2.0 million related to the Canadian dollar.

Selling, general and administrative expenses were
    $137.8 million for 2005, up $15.5 million or 12.7%
    compared with 2004. The translation effect of foreign currencies
    increased these expenses by $4.6 million for 2005.
    Sarbanes-Oxley compliance expenses increased $3.8 million
    and expenses for compensation and benefits were up
    $2.9 million from the 2004 fiscal year. Various other
    expenses increased $4.2 million.

Interest expense decreased $0.5 million in 2005 due to an
    interest-rate swap of $25 million, and a reduction of
    average borrowings. Interest income increased $0.4 million
    due to a higher level of investments.

Foreign currency transaction losses represent changes in the
    value of currencies in major areas where the Company operates.
    During 2005 the Company incurred foreign currency transaction
    losses of approximately $2.0 million in Canada as a result
    of the strengthening of the Canadian dollar.

Minority interest represents a 30% equity position of Mitsubishi
    Chemical MKV Company in a partnership with the Company and a 35%
    equity position of P.T. Prima Polycon Indah in an
    Indonesian joint venture with the Company.

During fiscal 2004, in order to balance capacity with demand,
    the Company closed two manufacturing lines at its Nashville,
    Tennessee plant. As a result, the Company recorded pre-tax
    charges of $0.2 million and $1.8 million for the years
    ended August 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. At
    August 31, 2005, the restructuring was complete, therefore
    no further cash out-flows were required by the Company.

One of the Company s major facilities in Texas was down for
    a two-week period in September 2005 and a warehouse in Texas
    also incurred damage from Hurricane Rita. See the update on this
    hurricane damage in the 2006 section of Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.

In September 2005 the Company introduced its new
    Invision   
    sheet product and formed A. Schulman Invision, Inc., a wholly
    owned subsidiary. See the update on
    Invision   
    in the 2006 section of Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

25

Table of Contents   

In October 2005 the Company reached an agreement with a group of
    investors led by Barington Capital Group, L.P. which had an
    ownership position of approximately 8.7% of the Company s
    outstanding stock. See the update on this agreement in the 2006
    section of Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

CRITICAL
    ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

The Company has identified critical accounting policies that, as
    a result of the judgments, uncertainties, and the operations
    involved, could result in material changes to its financial
    condition or results of operations under different conditions or
    using different assumptions. The Company s most critical
    accounting policies relate to the allowance for doubtful
    accounts, inventory reserves, restructuring costs, goodwill,
    long-lived assets, provisions for income taxes, pension and
    other postretirement benefits and stock-based compensation.

Management records an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable
    based on the current and projected credit quality of the
    Company s customers, historical experience, customer
    payment history, expected trends and other factors that affect
    collectibility. Changes in these factors or changes in economic
    circumstances could result in changes to the allowance for
    doubtful accounts.

Management establishes an inventory reserve based on historical
    experience and amounts expected to be realized for slow-moving
    and obsolete inventory. The Company monitors its slow-moving and
    obsolete inventory on a quarterly basis and makes adjustments as
    considered necessary. The proceeds from the sale or dispositions
    of these inventories may differ from the net recorded amount.

Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with,
    SFAS 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
    Disposal Activities. Liabilities for costs associated with an
    exit or disposal activity are recognized when the liability is
    incurred. Fair value is the basis for the measurement of any
    asset write-downs that are reflected as accelerated depreciation
    in cost of sales.

Goodwill is not amortized. The Company conducts a formal
    impairment test of goodwill at the reporting unit level on an
    annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or
    circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the
    fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.

Long-lived assets, except goodwill and indefinite-lived
    intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment when
    circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be
    recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is
    measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to
    future net cash flows estimated by the Company to be generated
    by such assets.

The Company s quarterly provision for income taxes involves
    a significant amount of judgment by management. Quarterly, the
    provision for income taxes is based upon actual year to date
    results plus an estimate of pretax income for the remainder of
    the year. This provision is impacted by the income and tax rates
    of the countries where the Company operates. A change in the
    geographical source of the Company s income can have a
    significant effect on the tax rate. No taxes are provided on
    earnings which are permanently reinvested.

The Company has not recognized any tax benefits from losses in
    the United States.

Various taxing authorities periodically audit the Company s
    tax returns. These audits may include questions regarding the
    Company s tax filing positions, including the timing and
    amount of deductions and the allocation of income to various tax
    jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposures connected with these
    various tax filing positions the Company records tax liabilities
    for probable exposures. A significant period of time may elapse
    before a particular matter, for which the Company has recorded a
    tax liability, is audited and fully resolved.

The establishment of the Company s tax liabilities relies
    on the judgment of management to estimate the exposures
    associated with its various filing positions. Although
    management believes those estimates and judgments are
    reasonable, actual results could differ, resulting in gains or
    losses that may be material to the Company s consolidated
    statement of income.

To the extent that the Company prevails in matters for which tax
    liabilities have been recorded, or are required to pay amounts
    in excess of these tax liabilities, the Company s effective
    tax rate in any given financial statement period could be
    materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement could result
    in an increase in the Company s effective tax rate in the

26

Table of Contents   

financial statement period of resolution. A favorable tax
    settlement would be recognized as a reduction in the
    Company s effective tax rate in the financial statement
    period of resolution.

The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred
    tax assets if it is more likely than not that some portion or
    all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In
    accordance with the provisions of SFAS 109 Accounting for
    Income Taxes, all available evidence, both positive and
    negative, is considered to determine whether a valuation
    allowance is needed. Evidence, such as the results of operations
    for the current and preceding years, is given more weight than
    projections of future income, which is inherently uncertain. The
    Company s losses in the U.S. in recent periods provide
    sufficient negative evidence to require a full valuation
    allowance against its net deferred tax assets in the
    U.S. The Company intends to maintain a valuation allowance
    against its net deferred tax assets in the U.S. until
    sufficient positive evidence exists to support realization of
    such assets.

Defined pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans are
    a significant cost of doing business that represents obligations
    that will be ultimately settled far into the future and
    therefore subject to estimation. Pension and postretirement
    benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of
    future benefit costs over the employee s approximate period
    of employment based on the terms of the plans and the investment
    and funding decisions made by the Company. While management
    believes the Company s assumptions are appropriate,
    significant differences in the Company s actual experience
    or significant changes in the Company s assumptions,
    including the discount rate used and the expected long-term rate
    of return on plan assets, may materially affect the
    Company s pension and postretirement obligations and future
    expenses.

The Company has several postretirement benefit plans worldwide.
    These plans consist primarily of defined benefit and defined
    contribution pension plans, but also include other
    postretirement benefit plans. For financial statements prepared
    in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
    the United States of America, many assumptions are required to
    be made in order to value the plans  liabilities on a
    projected and accumulated basis, as well as to determine the
    annual expense for the plans. The assumptions chosen take into
    account historical experience, the current economic environment
    and management s best judgment regarding future experience.
    Assumptions include the discount rate, the expected long-term
    rate of return on assets, future salary increases, health care
    escalation rates, cost of living increases, turnover, retirement
    ages and mortality. The cumulative difference between actual
    experience and assumed experience is deferred under current
    accounting principles. These gains or losses are recognized in
    expense over the average future working lifetime of employees to
    the extent that the cumulative experience exceeds 10% of the
    greater of the Projected Benefit Obligation (or Accumulated
    Postretirement Benefit Obligation) and assets. Additionally, the
    current accounting principles defer the amount of any plan
    changes. These amounts are then recognized in expense over the
    average future working lifetime of the affected group. In
    accordance with SFAS 158, Employers  Accounting for
    Defined Benefit Pension and Postretirement Plans, the full
    unfunded liability will be recognized on the Company s
    balance sheet in fiscal 2007. The deferred items will be charged
    to accumulated other comprehensive income and will be amortized
    through expense in the same manner as before.

For the majority of the Company s pension plans, the
    Company consults with various actuaries annually when reviewing
    and selecting the discount rates to be used. The discount rates
    used by the Company are based on yields of various corporate
    bond indices with varying maturity dates. The discount rates are
    also reviewed in comparison with current benchmark indices,
    economic market conditions and the movement in the benchmark
    yield since the previous fiscal year. The liability
    weighted-average discount rate for the defined benefit pension
    plans is 4.7% for fiscal 2006. For the other postretirement
    benefit plan, the rate is 6.0% and is obtained from the
    Citigroup Pension Liability Index and Discount Curve. This rate
    represents the higher interest rates generally available in the
    United States, which is the Company s only country with
    other postretirement benefit liabilities. Another assumption
    that affects the Company s pension expense is the expected
    return on assets. The weighted-average expected return on assets
    assumption is 7.7% for fiscal 2006.

27

Table of Contents   

The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in
    the assumed discount rate and expected long-term rate of return
    on assets for the Company s pension plans and other
    postretirement plans as of August 31, 2006:

Stock-based compensation requires the use of a valuation model.
    The Company currently uses a Black-Scholes option pricing model
    to calculate the fair value of its stock options. The
    Black-Scholes model requires assumptions based on
    management s judgment regarding, among others, the
    volatility of the Company s stock, the expected forfeiture
    rate, the expected life of the stock award and the
    Company s dividend yield. The Company primarily uses
    historical data to determine the assumptions to be used in the
    Black-Scholes model and has no reason to believe that future
    data is likely to differ from historical data. However, changes
    in the assumptions to reflect future stock price volatility,
    future dividend payments and future stock award exercise
    experience may result in a material change to the fair value
    calculation of share-based awards. While management believes the
    Company s assumptions are appropriate, significant
    differences in the Company s actual experience or
    significant changes in the Company s assumptions, including
    the volatility of the Company s stock, the expected
    forfeiture rate, the expected life of the stock award and the
    dividend yield, may materially affect the Company s future
    stock-based compensation expense.

LIQUIDITY AND
    CAPITAL RESOURCES  

As of August 31, 2006, the current ratio was 2.8 to 1 and
    working capital, excluding cash, was $353.1 million. Net
    cash provided from operations was $19.0 million in 2006
    compared with $55.6 million in 2005. Cash used in financing
    activities increased $42.7 million, mainly due to the
    Company s purchases of its common stock pursuant to the
    Repurchase Program, as discussed later in this section, and
    through the self-tender offer.

The Company s cash and cash equivalents were
    $50.7 million at August 31, 2006, a decrease of
    $51.6 million, or 50.4% from August 31, 2005. The
    decrease is primarily due to the purchases of treasury stock and
    an increase in working capital, excluding cash. The increase in
    working capital, excluding cash, is due primarily to the
    increase in accounts receivable and inventories which supported
    the Company s significant growth in sales in fiscal 2006.

Accounts receivable increased in 2006 by $47.4 million. The
    translation effect of foreign currencies, primarily the euro,
    accounted for $6.2 million of the increase in accounts
    receivable. Excluding the translation effect, the increase in
    accounts receivable was the result of higher sales, which
    increased 22.1% in the fourth quarter and 12.8% for the year
    compared to the same periods in the prior year. Days sales in
    accounts receivable improved from 59 days to 58 days.

Inventory increased in 2006 by $52.7 million or 22.6%.
    While this represents a significant increase from the prior
    year, the stronger sales volume has resulted in the Company days
    sales in inventory to remain relatively flat with the prior
    year. The translation effect of foreign currencies also
    accounted for $5.6 million or 10.7% of the increase in
    inventory.

The Company increased total long-term debt by $57.5 million
    or 91.0% during 2006. Total long-term debt was
    $120.7 million as of August 31, 2006. The increase is
    related to the financing actions discussed below.

28

Table of Contents   

Capital expenditures for the year ended August 31, 2006
    were $29.2 million compared with $26.9 million last
    year. The major components of the capital expenditures included
    the pilot line and other components for the new
    Invision   
    product line which totaled $7.8 million, land for the
    future site of
    Invision   
    of approximately $1.0 million, a new line for the
    manufacturing facility in China of approximately
    $2.2 million, a new packaging line for the manufacturing
    facility in Germany of approximately $2.5 million, an
    upgrade to a production line for the manufacturing facility in
    Mexico of approximately $1.0 million and an expansion of
    the laboratory in the United Kingdom facility for about
    $0.5 million. The Company s Board of Directors
    approved $32.0 million for capital expenditures for A.
    Schulman Invision, Inc. of which approximately
    $15.0 million has been spent through fiscal year 2006.

On February 28, 2006 the Company completed a refinancing in
    which it replaced a $100.0 million credit facility with a
    new $260.0 million credit facility ( Credit
    Facility ). The Credit Facility consists of
    $260.0 million of revolving credit lines of which the
    U.S. dollar equivalent of $160.0 million is available
    to certain of the Company s foreign subsidiaries for
    borrowings in euros or other currencies. The Credit Facility,
    which matures on February 28, 2011, contains certain
    covenants that, among other things, limit the Company s
    ability to incur indebtedness and enter into certain
    transactions beyond specified limits. The Company must also
    maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and may not exceed a
    maximum net debt leverage ratio. As of August 31, 2006,
    there were no covenant violations under the Credit Facility.

Interest rates on the Credit Facility are based on LIBOR or
    EURIBOR (depending on the borrowing currency) plus a spread
    determined by the Company s total leverage ratio. The
    Company also pays a facility fee on the commitments whether used
    or unused. As of August 31, 2006 there was
    $26.2 million outstanding under the Credit Facility.

The Company used proceeds from the Credit Facility to prepay its
    $50.0 million in 7.27% senior notes which were due in
    2009. In conjunction with the prepayment of these notes the
    Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of
    approximately $5.0 million, which included a make-whole
    provision of approximately $3.3 million, interest rate swap
    termination fee of $1.5 million and the write-off of
    related deferred debt costs and deferred interest. Deferred
    interest related to proceeds deferred in 1999 when the Company
    completed an interest rate lock effectively reducing the annual
    interest rate from 7.27% to 7.14% over the life of the notes. In
    connection with the prepayment of debt and termination of this
    interest rate lock, the remaining balance of these deferred
    proceeds of $0.2 million was written off.

On March 1, 2006, the Company issued senior guaranteed
    notes ( Senior Notes ) in the private placement market
    consisting of the following:

The Senior Notes are guaranteed by the Company s
    wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and contain covenants
    substantially identical to those in the $260.0 million
    revolving credit facility. As of August 31, 2006, there
    were no covenant violations under the Senior Notes.

Both the Credit Facility and the Senior Notes are supported by
    up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the Company s
    directly owned foreign subsidiaries.

The proceeds from the Euro Notes, available cash, and borrowings
    on the Credit Facility were used to fund the $143.8 million
    repatriation from Europe completed in March 2006. The Company
    used these repatriated proceeds to fund the self-tender offer
    which cost approximately $50.2 million including
    $0.5 million in fees directly related to the tender offer.

29

Table of Contents   

In connection with the Company s agreement to initiate a
    self-tender offer, which required new debt and repatriation from
    foreign subsidiaries, the Company incurred $11.5 million,
    which is summarized as follows:

Amount  

(In
    millions)  

Debt extinguishment costs

$

5.0

Incremental tax on repatriation of
    dividends from foreign subsidiaries

2.2

Deferred costs related to new
    financing agreements

2.6

Forward exchange contracts loss on
    repatriation of dividends

1.2

Fees directly related to self
    tender offer

0.5

$

11.5

Charges of $2.6 million related to the issuance of the
    Senior Notes and the Credit Facility have been deferred as of
    August 31, 2006 and are being amortized over the
    contractual lives of the Senior Notes and the Credit Facility,
    respectively.

The Company had approximately $8.5 million and
    $17.0 million of uncollateralized short-term lines of
    credit from various domestic banks at August 31, 2006 and
    2005, respectively. There was $8.5 million outstanding at
    August 31, 2006 and no borrowings under these lines of
    credit at August 31, 2005.

The Company had approximately $58.0 million and
    $55.0 million of uncollateralized short-term foreign lines
    of credit available to its subsidiaries at August 31, 2006
    and August 31, 2005, respectively. There was
    $2.5 million outstanding under these lines of credit at
    August 31, 2006 and no borrowings at August 31, 2005.

The Company leases certain items under capital leases. The
    European segment leased certain land and buildings with an
    amount due on this capital lease at August 31, 2005 of
    approximately $0.4 million. The European and North American
    segments had no significant capital leases outstanding at
    August 31, 2006.

The Company s unfunded pension liability is approximately
    $65.0 million at August 31, 2006. This amount is
    primarily due to an unfunded plan of $50.3 million
    maintained by the Company s German subsidiary. Under this
    plan, no separate vehicle is required to accumulate assets to
    provide for the payment of benefits. The benefits are paid
    directly by the Company to the participants. It is anticipated
    that the German subsidiary will generate sufficient funds from
    operations to pay these benefits in the future.

The Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts as a
    hedge against amounts due or payable in foreign currencies.
    These contracts limit the Company s exposure to
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Any gains or
    losses associated with these contracts as well as the offsetting
    gains or losses from the underlying assets or liabilities hedged
    are recognized on the foreign currency transaction line in the
    Consolidated Statement of Income. The Company estimates that a
    10% change in foreign exchange rates at August 31, 2006
    would have changed the fair value of the contracts by
    approximately $3.6 million. Changes in the fair value of
    forward exchange contracts are substantially offset by changes
    in the fair value of the hedged positions. The Company does not
    hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes or
    utilize any other types of derivative instruments.

30

Table of Contents   

A summary of the Company s future obligations subsequent to
    August 31, 2006 are presented below:

(a)  

Purchase obligations include inventory. 

(b)  

Although the Company expects to make payments beyond this point,
    the Company cannot accurately estimate or determine the amount
    of such payments. 

Operating lease information is provided in the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 8 of
    this Report. The aggregate future minimum rental commitment for
    non-cancelable leases, excluding obligations for taxes,
    insurance, etc. was $12.0 million at August 31, 2006.

The Company s outstanding commercial commitments at
    August 31, 2006 are not material to the Company s
    financial position, liquidity or results of operations except as
    discussed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    appearing in ITEM 8 of this Report.

The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.

During the year ended August 31, 2006, the Company paid
    cash dividends aggregating to $0.58 per share. The total
    amount of these dividends was $17.6 million. Cash flow has
    been sufficient to fund the payment of these dividends.

For the year ended August 31, 2006, the Company issued
    650,667 common shares upon the exercise of employee stock
    options and 78,950 common shares were issued to employees under
    the restricted stock plan. The total amount received from the
    exercise of these options was $9.8 million.

On April 25, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of
    Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 6.75 million
    shares of its outstanding common stock (the  Repurchase
    Program ). This authorized share amount in the Repurchase
    Program equated to approximately 23.3% of the Company s
    outstanding shares at the authorization date. It is anticipated
    that the Company will complete the Repurchase Program through
    open market repurchases from time to time. The number of shares
    to be repurchased and the timing of repurchases will depend upon
    the prevailing market prices and any other considerations that
    may, in the opinion of the Board of Directors or management,
    affect the advisability of repurchasing shares. The Repurchase
    Program replaced the Company s prior repurchase
    authorization, under which approximately 1.7 million shares
    had remained authorized for repurchase. During the year ended
    August 31, 2006, the Company repurchased 2,000,081 common
    shares under the new program at an average cost of
    $22.76 per share, excluding commissions. Under the current
    plan the Company has approximately 4.7 million shares still
    available to be repurchased. During fiscal 2006, the Company
    purchased approximately 4.1 million shares of its common
    stock at an average price of $23.39 excluding transaction fees
    through the Repurchase Program and self-tender offer.

The assets and liabilities of the Company s foreign
    subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using current
    exchange rates. Income statement items are translated at average
    exchange rates prevailing during the period. The resulting
    translation adjustments are recorded in the  accumulated
    other comprehensive income  account in stockholders 
    equity. The continued weakness of the U.S. dollar during
    the year ended August 31, 2006 increased this account by
    $6.8 million.

31

Table of Contents   

Based on past performance and current expectations, Management
    believes the Company s cash and cash equivalents,
    investments, and cash generated from operations will satisfy the
    Company s working capital needs, capital expenditures,
    contractual obligations and other liquidity requirements
    associated with operations through at least the next
    12 months. Additional common stock repurchases would
    generally be funded through incremental borrowing.

NEW ACCOUNTING
    PRONOUNCEMENTS  

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47,
    ( FIN 47 ), Accounting for Conditional Asset
    Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.
    FIN 47 requires that the fair value of a liability for an
    asset retirement obligation (ARO) be recognized in the period in
    which it is incurred and the settlement date is estimable, and
    is capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the related
    tangible long-lived asset. The liability is recorded at fair
    value and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the remaining
    useful life of the related asset. The Company performed a
    thorough examination of asset categories during the quarter
    ended August 31, 2006. The Company is legally obligated by
    various country, state or local regulations to incur costs to
    retire certain of its assets. A liability is recorded for these
    obligations in the period in which sufficient information
    regarding timing and method of settlement become available to
    make a reasonable estimate of the liability s fair value.
    The Company has identified certain other AROs for which
    information regarding the timing and method of potential
    settlement is not available as of August 31, 2006, and
    therefore, the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the
    fair value of these liabilities at this time. The Company
    continues to monitor these conditional obligations, as well as
    any new ones that may develop, and will record reserves
    associated with them when and to the extent that more detailed
    information becomes available concerning applicable retirement
    costs. The adoption of FIN 47 by the Company in the quarter
    ended August 31, 2006 did not have a material impact on the
    Company s financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB interpretation No. 48,
    ( FIN 48 ), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,
     Accounting for Income Taxes . FIN 48 clarifies
    the accounting for uncertain income tax positions that are
    recognized in a company s financial statements. FIN 48
    prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company should
    recognize, measure, present and disclose in its financial
    statements uncertain tax positions that the company has taken or
    expects to take on a tax return. Under the interpretation, the
    financial statements will reflect expected future tax
    consequences of such positions presuming the taxing
    authorities  full knowledge of the position and all
    relevant facts, but without considering time values. The
    adoption of FIN 48 is required by the Company in fiscal
    year 2008. The Company is currently evaluating the impact, if
    any, of FIN 48 on its financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows.

On September 15, 2006 the FASB issued FASB Statement
    No. 157, ( SFAS 157 ), Fair Value
    Measurement. SFAS 157 addresses standardizing the
    measurement of fair value for companies who are required to use
    a fair value measure of recognition for recognition or
    disclosure purposes. The FASB defines fair value as  the
    price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
    transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
    participants at the measure date.  The Company is required
    to adopt SFAS 157 for fiscal year 2009. The Company is
    currently evaluating the impact, if any, of SFAS 157 on its
    financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

On September 29, 2006 the FASB issued FASB Statement
    No. 158, ( SFAS 158 ), Employers 
    Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans. SFAS 158 requires companies to recognize the funded
    status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans
    as a net asset or liability in its financial statements. In
    addition, disclosure requirements related to such plans are
    affected by SFAS 158. As required by SFAS 158, the
    Company will use a prospective approach in their adoption of
    SFAS 158. The Company will begin recognition of the funded
    status of its defined benefit postretirement plans and include
    the required disclosures under the provisions of SFAS 158
    at the end of fiscal year 2007. If the Company had adopted
    SFAS 158 the August 31, 2006 balance sheet would have
    experienced an increase in the Company s liabilities by
    approximately $26.0 million and accumulated other
    comprehensive income would have decreased by approximately
    $26.0 million, excluding any tax effect. The adoption of
    SFAS 158 is not expected to impact the Company s debt
    covenants or cash position. Additionally, the Company does not
    expect the adoption of SFAS 158 to significantly effect the
    results of operations.

On September 13, 2006 the Securities and Exchange
    Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulleting No. 108,
    ( SAB 108 ), Considering the Effects of Prior
    Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current
    Year Financial Statements. When a misstatement in a financial
    statement is identified, SAB 108 requires management to
    assess whether or not the misstatement is material to the
    affected financial statements. In performing this analysis,
    management must consider

32

Table of Contents   

materiality from both a quantitative perspective and a
    qualitative perspective. The analysis of materiality is an area
    that requires a great deal of professional judgment and
    SAB 108 requires that this analysis begin with the basic
    quantification of the misstatement. The Company is required to
    adopt SAB 108 for fiscal 2007. The adoption of SAB 108
    is not expected to impact the Company s financial position,
    results of operations or cash flows.

CAUTIONARY
    STATEMENTS  

Certain statements in this report may constitute forward-looking
    statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws.
    These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not
    relate strictly to historic or current facts. They use such
    words as  anticipate ,  estimate ,
     expect ,  project ,  intend ,
     plan ,  believe , and other words and terms
    of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future
    operating or financial performance. These forward-looking
    statements are based on currently available information, but are
    subject to a variety of uncertainties, unknown risks and other
    factors concerning the Company s operations and business
    environment, which are difficult to predict and are beyond the
    control of the Company. Important factors that could cause
    actual results to differ materially from those suggested by
    these forward-looking statements, and that could adversely
    affect the Company s future financial performance, include,
    but are not limited to, the following:

Worldwide and regional economic, business and political
    conditions, including continuing economic uncertainties in some
    or all of the Company s major product markets;

Fluctuations in the value of currencies in major areas where the
    Company operates, including the U.S. dollar, euro, U.K.
    pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Chinese yuan and
    Indonesian rupiah;

Fluctuations in the prices of sources of energy or plastic
    resins and other raw materials;

Changes in customer demand and requirements;

Escalation in the cost of providing employee health care;

The outcome of any legal claims known or unknown; and

The performance of the North American automotive market.

Additional risk factors are set forth in ITEM 1A of this
    Report. The risks and uncertainties identified above are not the
    only risks the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties
    not presently known to the Company or that it believes to be
    immaterial also may adversely affect the Company. Should any
    known or unknown risks or uncertainties develop into actual
    events, or underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, these
    developments could have material adverse effects on the
    Company s business, financial condition and results of
    operations.

ITEM 7A.  

QUANTITATIVE AND
    QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company conducts business on a multinational basis in a
    variety of foreign currencies. The Company s exposure to
    market risk for changes in foreign currency exchange rates
    arises from anticipated transactions from international trade
    and repatriation of foreign earnings. The Company s
    principle foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, U. K.
    pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Chinese yuan, and
    Indonesian rupiah.

The Company enters into forward exchange contracts to reduce its
    exposure to fluctuations in related foreign currencies. These
    contracts are with major financial institutions and the risk of
    loss is considered remote. The total value of open contracts and
    any risk to the Company as a result of these arrangements is not
    material to the Company s financial position, liquidity or
    results of operations.

The Company s exposure to market risk from changes in
    interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations.
    Interest on the Revolving Facility is based on the London
    Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for U.S. dollar borrowings
    and the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR) for euro
    borrowings. At August 31, 2006, the Company had
    $26.2 million borrowed against its Revolving Facility.
    Borrowing costs may fluctuate depending upon the volatility of
    LIBOR and amounts borrowed.

33

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8.  

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

A. SCHULMAN,
    INC. 

Index to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  

34

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

of A. Schulman, Inc.

We have completed integrated audits of A. Schulman, Inc. s
    2006 and 2005 consolidated financial statements and of its
    internal control over financial reporting as of August 31,
    2006, and an audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements
    in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based
    on our audits, are presented below.

CONSOLIDATED
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE  

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in
    all material respects, the financial position of A. Schulman,
    Inc. and its subsidiaries at August 31, 2006 and 2005, and
    the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
    the three years in the period ended August 31, 2006 in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the
    financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under
    Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects,
    the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with
    the related consolidated financial statements. These financial
    statements and financial statement schedule are the
    responsibility of the Company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
    statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
    We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
    the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
    audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test
    basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
    financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used
    and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
    audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts
    for stock-based compensation in fiscal 2006.

INTERNAL CONTROL
    OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  

Also, in our opinion, management s assessment, included in
    the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control
    Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the
    Company maintained effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of August 31, 2006 based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly
    stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria.
    Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
    material respects, effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of August 31, 2006, based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the COSO. The Company s management
    is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
    is to express opinions on management s assessment and on
    the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit
    of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with
    the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal
    control over financial reporting includes obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating
    the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and
    performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded

35

Table of Contents   

as necessary to permit preparation
    of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Cleveland, Ohio

November 2, 2006

36

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc.  

Consolidated Statement of Income 

The accompanying notes are an
    integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

37

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc.  

Consolidated Balance Sheet 

The accompanying notes are an
    integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

38

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc.  

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders 
    Equity 

The accompanying notes are an
    integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

39

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc.  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 

The accompanying notes are an
    integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

40

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

NOTE 1  
    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF
    CONSOLIDATION  

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of A.
    Schulman, Inc. (the  Company ) and its domestic and
    foreign subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is
    maintained. All significant intercompany transactions have been
    eliminated.

The Company is engaged in the sale of plastic resins in various
    forms, which are used as raw materials by its customers. To
    identify reportable segments, the Company considered its
    operating structure and the types of information subject to
    regular review by its President and Chief Executive Officer, who
    is the Chief Operating Decision Maker. On this basis, the
    Company operates primarily in two geographic segments, North
    America and Europe, including Asia ( Europe ).

Minority interest represents a 30% equity position of Mitsubishi
    Chemical MKV Co. in a partnership with the Company and a 35%
    equity position of P.T. Prima Polycon Indah in an
    Indonesian joint venture with the Company.

USE OF
    ESTIMATES  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
    disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
    the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
    and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
    differ from those estimates.

CASH EQUIVALENTS
    AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS  

All highly liquid investments purchased with a maturity of three
    months or less are considered to be cash equivalents. Such
    investments amounted to $13.7 million at August 31,
    2006 and $22.2 million at August 31, 2005. Investments
    with maturities between three and twelve months are considered
    to be short-term investments. Investments are placed with
    numerous financial institutions which management believes to
    have acceptable credit ratings. The recorded amount of these
    investments approximates fair value.

ACCOUNTS
    RECEIVABLE AND ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS  

Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount
    and do not bear interest. Management records an allowance for
    doubtful accounts receivable based on the current and projected
    credit quality of the Company s customers, historical
    experience, customer payment history, expected trends and other
    factors that affect collectibility. Changes in these factors or
    changes in economic circumstances could result in changes to the
    allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company reviews its
    allowance for doubtful accounts on a periodic basis. Trade
    accounts receivables are charged off against the allowance for
    doubtful accounts when the Company determines it is probable the
    account receivable will not be collected. Trade accounts
    receivables, less allowance for doubtful accounts, reflect the
    net realizable value of receivables, and approximate fair value.
    The Company does not have any off-balance sheet exposure related
    to its customers.

REVENUE
    RECOGNITION  

The Company s accounting policy regarding revenue
    recognition is to recognize revenue when products are shipped to
    unaffiliated customers and both title and the risks and rewards
    of ownership are transferred.

The Company provides tolling services as a fee for processing of
    material provided and owned by customers. On some occasions, the
    Company is required to provide certain amounts of its materials,
    such as additives or packaging. These materials are charged to
    the customer as an addition to the tolling fees. The Company
    recognizes revenues from tolling services and related materials
    when such services are performed. The only amounts recorded as
    revenue related to tolling are the processing fees and the
    charges related to materials provided by the Company.

41

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

DEPRECIATION  

It is the Company s policy to depreciate the cost of
    property, plant and equipment over the estimated useful lives of
    the assets, or for leasehold improvements over the applicable
    lease term, using the straight-line method. The estimated useful
    lives used in the computation of depreciation are as follows:

Buildings and leasehold improvements

7 to 40 years

Machinery and equipment

5 to 10 years

Computer equipment

3 to 5 years

Furniture and fixtures

5 to 10 years

The cost of property sold or otherwise disposed of is eliminated
    from the property accounts and the related reserve accounts.
    Gains or losses are recognized as appropriate when sales of
    property occur.

Maintenance and repair costs are charged against income. The
    cost of renewals and betterments is capitalized in the property
    accounts.

INVENTORIES  

The Company and its subsidiaries do not distinguish between raw
    materials and finished goods because numerous products that can
    be sold as finished goods are also used as raw materials in the
    production of other inventory items.

GOODWILL  

The Company does not amortize goodwill. However, the Company
    conducts a formal impairment test of goodwill at the reporting
    unit level on an annual basis and between annual tests if an
    event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than
    not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying
    value. The Company completed its annual impairment test of
    goodwill as of February 28, 2006 which resulted in no
    impairment loss being recognized.

LONG-LIVED
    ASSETS  

Long-lived assets, except goodwill and indefinite-lived
    intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment when
    circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be
    recoverable, or at least annually. Recoverability of assets to
    be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying
    amount of the asset to future net cash flows estimated by the
    Company to be generated by such assets. If such assets are
    considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is
    the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds
    the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are
    recorded at the lower of carrying value or estimated net
    realizable value. The Company completed its annual impairment
    test of long-lived assets which resulted in no impairment loss
    being recognized.

INCOME
    TAXES  

Income taxes are recognized during the period in which
    transactions enter into the determination of financial statement
    income. Accordingly, deferred taxes are provided for temporary
    differences between the book and tax bases of assets and
    liabilities. A valuation allowance is established when it is
    more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax
    asset will not be realized. No taxes are provided on earnings
    which are permanently reinvested.

RETIREMENT
    PLANS  

The Company has several defined benefit and defined contribution
    plans covering certain employees in the U.S. and in foreign
    countries. For certain plans in the U.S., pension funding is
    based on an amount paid to trust funds at an agreed rate for
    each hour for which employees are paid. Generally, the defined
    benefit plans accrue the current and prior service costs
    annually and funding is not required for all plans.

42

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company also has deferred profit sharing plans for its North
    American salaried employees for which contributions are
    determined at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

FOREIGN CURRENCY
    TRANSLATION  

The financial position and results of operations of the
    Company s foreign subsidiaries are measured using local
    currency as the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of
    these subsidiaries are translated at the exchange rate in effect
    at each reporting period end. Income statement accounts are
    translated at the average rate of exchange prevailing during the
    year. Accumulated other comprehensive income in
    stockholders  equity includes translation adjustments
    arising from the use of different exchange rates from period to
    period.

RECLASSIFICATION  

Certain items previously reported in specific financial
    statement captions have been reclassified to conform to the 2006
    presentation.

DERIVATIVE
    INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES  

The Company accounts for derivatives under Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting
    for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
    ( SFAS 133 ) as amended and interpreted.
    SFAS 133 requires all derivatives, whether designated in
    hedging relationships or not, to be recorded on the balance
    sheet at fair value. The forward exchange contracts were
    adjusted to their fair market value through the income
    statement. Gains or losses on forward contracts that hedge
    specific transactions are recognized in the consolidated
    statement of income offsetting the underlying foreign currency
    gains or losses. In 2004 the Company entered into an
    interest-rate swap agreement which was designated as a fair
    value hedge in accordance with SFAS 133. This interest-rate
    swap was terminated during 2006 in connection with the
    prepayment of the senior notes, as discussed in Note 4.

STOCK-BASED
    COMPENSATION  

On September 1, 2005, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004),
    ( SFAS 123R ), Share-Based Payment, which
    requires the Company to measure all employee stock-based
    compensation awards using a fair value method and record the
    related expense in the consolidated financial statements. The
    Company elected to use the modified prospective transition
    method. The modified prospective transition method requires that
    compensation cost be recognized in the consolidated financial
    statements for all awards granted after the date of adoption as
    well as for existing awards for which the requisite service has
    not been rendered as of the date of adoption and requires that
    prior periods not be restated. All periods presented prior to
    September 1, 2005 were accounted for using the intrinsic
    value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board
    Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,
    and followed a nominal vesting period approach.

NEW ACCOUNTING
    PRONOUNCEMENTS  

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47,
    ( FIN 47 ), Accounting for Conditional Asset
    Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.
    FIN 47 requires that the fair value of a liability for an
    asset retirement obligation (ARO) be recognized in the period in
    which it is incurred and the settlement date is estimable, and
    is capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the related
    tangible long-lived asset. The liability is recorded at fair
    value and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the remaining
    useful life of the related asset. The Company performed a
    thorough examination of asset categories during the quarter
    ended August 31, 2006. The Company is legally obligated by
    various country, state or local regulations to incur costs to
    retire certain of its assets. A liability is recorded for these
    obligations in the period in which sufficient information
    regarding timing and method of settlement become available to
    make a reasonable estimate of the liability s fair value.
    The Company has identified certain other AROs for which
    information regarding the timing and method of potential
    settlement is not available as of August 31, 2006, and
    therefore, the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the
    fair value of these liabilities at this time. The Company
    continues to monitor

43

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

these conditional obligations, as well as any new ones that may
    develop, and will record reserves associated with them when and
    to the extent that more detailed information becomes available
    concerning applicable retirement costs. The adoption of
    FIN 47 by the Company in the quarter ended August 31,
    2006 did not have a material impact on the Company s
    financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB interpretation No. 48,
    ( FIN 48 ), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,
     Accounting for Income Taxes . FIN 48 clarifies
    the accounting for uncertain income tax positions that are
    recognized in a company s financial statements. FIN 48
    prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company should
    recognize, measure, present and disclose in its financial
    statements uncertain tax positions that the company has taken or
    expects to take on a tax return. Under the interpretation, the
    financial statements will reflect expected future tax
    consequences of such positions presuming the taxing
    authorities  full knowledge of the position and all
    relevant facts, but without considering time values. The
    adoption of FIN 48 is required by the Company in fiscal
    year 2008. The Company is currently evaluating the impact, if
    any, of FIN 48 on its financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows.

On September 15, 2006 the FASB issued FASB Statement
    No. 157, ( SFAS 157 ), Fair Value
    Measurement. SFAS 157 addresses standardizing the
    measurement of fair value for companies who are required to use
    a fair value measure of recognition for recognition or
    disclosure purposes. The FASB defines fair value as  the
    price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
    transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
    participants at the measure date.  The Company is required
    to adopt SFAS 157 for fiscal year 2009. The Company is
    currently evaluating the impact, if any, of SFAS 157 on its
    financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

On September 29, 2006 the FASB issued FASB Statement
    No. 158, ( SFAS 158 ), Employers 
    Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans. SFAS 158 requires companies to recognize the funded
    status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans
    as a net asset or liability in its financial statements. In
    addition, disclosure requirements related to such plans are
    affected by SFAS 158. As required by SFAS 158, the
    Company will use a prospective approach in their adoption of
    SFAS 158. The Company will begin recognition of the funded
    status of its defined benefit postretirement plans and include
    the required disclosures under the provisions of SFAS 158
    at the end of fiscal year 2007. If the Company had adopted
    SFAS 158 the August 31, 2006 balance sheet would have
    experienced an increase in the Company s liabilities by
    approximately $26.0 million and accumulated other
    comprehensive income would have decreased by approximately
    $26.0 million, excluding any tax effect. The adoption of
    SFAS 158 is not expected to impact the Company s debt
    covenants or cash position. Additionally, the Company does not
    expect the adoption of SFAS 158 to significantly effect the
    results of operations.

On September 13, 2006 the Securities and Exchange
    Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulleting No. 108,
    ( SAB 108 ), Considering the Effects of Prior
    Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current
    Year Financial Statements. When a misstatement in a financial
    statement is identified, SAB 108 requires management to
    assess whether or not the misstatement is material to the
    affected financial statements. In performing this analysis,
    management must consider materiality from both a quantitative
    perspective and a qualitative perspective. The analysis of
    materiality is an area that requires a great deal of
    professional judgment and SAB 108 requires that this
    analysis begin with the basic quantification of the
    misstatement. The Company is required to adopt SAB 108 for
    fiscal 2007. The adoption of SAB 108 is not expected to
    impact the Company s financial position, results of
    operations or cash flows.

44

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

NOTE 2  
    ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS

The changes in the Company s allowance for doubtful
    accounts during the years ended August 31, 2006 and 2005
    are as follows:

NOTE 3  
    GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

In accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets, the Company is required to review goodwill
    and indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually for
    impairment. Goodwill impairment is tested at the reporting unit
    level on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event
    occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not
    reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying
    value. No impairment was required to be recorded as a result of
    the annual impairment review as of February 28, 2006.

In connection with the restructuring in North America, goodwill
    related to the Nashville, Tennessee plant was tested for
    impairment during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. This
    restructuring included the closing of two production lines in
    order to reduce production capacity at the plant. In connection
    with this action, the Company deemed it necessary to conduct an
    impairment test. As a result of closing these two production
    lines, the sales and cash flow forecast for this plant was
    revised and the Company estimated the fair market value of the
    plant using an earnings multiple valuation method. The results
    of this valuation indicated that the carrying value of the
    plant s net assets exceeded their market value. The Company
    then compared the recorded value of the goodwill with the
    implied fair market value of the goodwill and determined that an
    impairment loss had been incurred. The Company recorded a
    goodwill impairment loss of $1.8 million in the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2004, which represented the total recorded
    value of the goodwill for the Nashville plant.

Accumulated amortization for intangibles was $1.3 million,
    $1.2 million and $1.0 million at August 31, 2006,
    2005 and 2004, respectively. Intangible assets that are subject
    to amortization were fully amortized as of November 30,
    2005.

The carrying amount of goodwill for the European segment was
    $4.4 million at August 31, 2006 and $4.3 million
    at August 31, 2005. The carrying amount of goodwill for the
    North American segment was $1.0 million at August 31,
    2006 and 2005.

The changes in the Company s carrying value of goodwill
    during the years ended August 31, 2006 and 2005 are as
    follows:

45

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

NOTE 4  
    LONG-TERM DEBT AND CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS

On February 28, 2006 the Company completed a refinancing in
    which it replaced a $100.0 million credit facility with a
    new $260.0 million credit facility ( Credit
    Facility ). The Credit Facility consists of
    $260.0 million of revolving credit lines of which the
    U.S. dollar equivalent of $160.0 million is available
    to certain of the Company s foreign subsidiaries for
    borrowings in euros or other currencies. The Credit Facility,
    which matures on February 28, 2011, contains certain
    covenants that, among other things, limit the Company s
    ability to incur indebtedness and enter into certain
    transactions beyond specified limits. The Company must also
    maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and may not exceed a
    maximum net debt leverage ratio.

Interest rates on the Credit Facility are based on LIBOR or
    EURIBOR (depending on the borrowing currency) plus a spread
    determined by the Company s total leverage ratio. The
    Company also pays a facility fee on the commitments whether used
    or unused. As of August 31, 2006 there was
    $26.2 million outstanding under the Credit Facility.

The Company used proceeds from the Credit Facility to prepay its
    $50.0 million in 7.27% senior notes which were due in
    2009. In conjunction with the prepayment of these notes the
    Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of
    approximately $5.0 million, which included a make-whole
    provision of approximately $3.3 million, interest rate swap
    termination fee of $1.5 million and the write-off of
    related deferred debt costs and deferred interest. Deferred
    interest related to proceeds deferred in 1999 when the Company
    completed an interest rate lock effectively reducing the annual
    interest rate from 7.27% to 7.14% over the life of the notes. In
    connection with the prepayment of debt and termination of this
    interest rate lock, the remaining balance of these deferred
    proceeds of $0.2 million was written off.

On March 1, 2006, the Company issued senior guaranteed
    notes ( Senior Notes ) in the private placement market
    consisting of the following:

The Senior Notes are guaranteed by the Company s
    wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and contain covenants
    substantially identical to those in the $260.0 million
    revolving credit facility.

Both the Credit Facility and the Senior Notes are supported by
    up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the Company s
    directly owned foreign subsidiaries.

The proceeds from the Euro Notes, available cash, and borrowings
    on the Credit Facility were used to fund the $143.8 million
    repatriation from Europe completed in March 2006. The Company
    used these repatriated proceeds to fund the self-tender offer
    which cost approximately $50.2 million including
    $0.5 million in fees directly related to the tender offer.

Charges of $2.6 million related to the issuance of the
    Senior Notes and the Credit Facility have been deferred as of
    August 31, 2006 and are being amortized over the
    contractual lives of the Senior Notes and the Credit Facility,
    respectively.

46

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company had approximately $8.5 million and
    $17.0 million of uncollateralized short-term lines of
    credit from various domestic banks at August 31, 2006 and
    2005, respectively. There was $8.5 million outstanding at
    August 31, 2006 and no borrowings at August 31, 2005
    under these lines of credit.

The Company had approximately $58.0 million and
    $55.0 million of uncollateralized short-term foreign lines
    of credit available to its subsidiaries at August 31, 2006
    and August 31, 2005, respectively. There was
    $2.5 million outstanding under these lines of credit at
    August 31, 2006 and no borrowings at August 31, 2005.

The Company leases certain items under capital leases. The
    European segment leased certain land and buildings with an
    amount due on this capital lease at August 31, 2005 of
    approximately $0.4 million. The European and North American
    segments had no significant capital leases outstanding at
    August 31, 2006.

Aggregate maturities of debt including capital lease obligations
    subsequent to August 31, 2006 are as follows:

NOTE 5  
    FOREIGN CURRENCY FORWARD CONTRACTS

The Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to
    reduce its exposure for amounts due or payable in foreign
    currencies. These contracts limit the Company s exposure to
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Any gains or
    losses associated with these contracts as well as the offsetting
    gains or losses from the underlying assets or liabilities are
    recognized on the foreign currency transaction losses line in
    the Consolidated Statement of Income. The Company does not hold
    or issue foreign exchange contracts for trading purposes. The
    following table presents a summary of foreign exchange contracts
    outstanding as of August 31, 2006 and August 31, 2005:

The fair value of foreign exchange contracts was estimated by
    obtaining quotes from banks. Foreign exchange contracts are
    entered into with several financial institutions that management
    believes have acceptable credit ratings and generally have
    maturities of less than twelve months.

47

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

NOTE 6  
    INCOME TAXES

Income (loss) before taxes is as follows:

The U.S. includes a loss on debt extinguishment of
    $5.0 million and $4.2 million of expenses related to
    SFAS 123R in 2006. The U.S. includes restructuring charges
    of $0.2 million and $2.1 million in 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. In addition, fiscal 2004 includes impairment
    charges of $1.8 million.

The provisions for U.S. and foreign income taxes consist of the
    following:

A reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal income tax
    rate with the effective tax rates of 47.4% in 2006, 35.0% in
    2005, and 48.9% in 2004, is as follows:

48

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Deferred tax assets and (liabilities) consist of the following
    at August 31, 2006 and August 31, 2005:

The valuation allowance covers benefits which are not likely to
    be utilized for foreign tax credit carryforwards and other
    deferred tax assets in the United States. The Company has
    $24.2 million in foreign tax credit carryforwards that will
    expire in periods from 2010 to 2016. The expiration periods
    reflect the extension of the carryforward period granted by the
    American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 signed into law on
    October 22, 2004.

The tax effect of temporary differences included in prepaids was
    $4.2 million and $5.1 million at August 31, 2006
    and 2005 respectively. Deferred charges included
    $8.2 million and $6.9 million from the tax effect of
    temporary differences at August 31, 2006 and 2005
    respectively. The tax effect of temporary differences included
    in other accrued liabilities was $1.6 million and
    $0.8 million at August 31, 2006 and 2005 respectively.

During fiscal 2006, the Company revised its earnings
    repatriation plan for certain European subsidiaries and
    recognized an income tax provision of $2.2 million for
    taxes incurred related to the repatriation of these earnings. At
    August 31, 2006, no taxes have been provided on the
    undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries amounting
    to $264.2 million because the Company intends to reinvest
    these earnings.

NOTE 7  
    PENSIONS

The Company has defined benefit pension plans and other
    postretirement benefit plans, primarily health care and life
    insurance. Benefits for the defined benefit plans are based
    primarily on years of service and qualifying compensation during
    the final years of employment. A supplemental non-qualified,
    non-funded pension plan for certain officers was adopted as of
    January 1, 2004. Charges to earnings are provided to meet
    the projected benefit obligation. The pension cost for this plan
    is based on substantially the same actuarial methods and
    economic assumptions as those used for the defined benefit
    pension plan. In connection with this plan, the Company owns and
    is the beneficiary of life insurance policies that cover the
    estimated total cost of this plan. The cash surrender value of
    this insurance was $1.1 million and $0.8 million at
    August 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Postretirement
    health care and life insurance benefits are provided to certain
    domestic employees if they reach retirement age while working
    for the Company. Effective January 1, 2004, the Company
    amended the plan to require co-payments and participant
    contribution. The measurement date for all plans is
    August 31.

49

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Components of the plan obligations and assets, and the recorded
    liability at August 31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:

The components of net periodic benefit cost of the years ended
    August 31 are as follows:

50

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit
    obligation, and fair value of plan assets for the pension plan
    with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets
    were $79.1 million, $70.1 million and
    $14.0 million, respectively, as of August 31, 2006,
    and $68.4 million, $61.2 million and
    $10.9 million, respectively, as of August 31, 2005.
    The under funded position is primarily related to the
    Company s German pension plan, where funding is not
    required.

The total pension contributions for multi-employer pension plans
    was $17,000 in 2006, $6,000 in 2005, and $31,000 in 2004. The
    total cost for defined contribution plans was $3.8 million
    in 2006, $3.6 million in 2005 and $3.7 million in 2004.

Actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the recorded
    liability are as follows:

The Company in consultation with its actuaries reviews and
    selects the discount rate to be used in connection with its
    postretirement obligation annually. When selecting the discount
    rate the Company uses a model that considers the Company s
    demographics of the participants and the resulting expected
    benefit payment stream over the participants  lifetime.

The Company, in consultation with various actuaries, annually
    reviews and selects the discount rates to be used in connection
    with its defined benefit pension plans. The discount rates used
    by the Company are based on yields of various corporate bond
    indices with varying maturity dates. The discount rates are also
    reviewed in comparison with current benchmark indices, economic
    market conditions and the movement in the benchmark yield since
    the previous fiscal year.

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect
    on the amounts reported for the health care plan. A
    one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend
    rates would have the following effects at August 31, 2006:

One-Percentage- 

One-Percentage- 

Point
    Increase  

Point
    Decrease  

(In
    thousands)  

Effect on total of service and
    interest cost components

$

857

$

(682

)

Effect on postretirement obligation

$

5,708

$

(4,443

)

The Company s pension plan weighted-average asset
    allocation at August 31, 2006 and 2005, and target
    allocation, by asset category are as follows:

51

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company s principal objective is to ensure that
    sufficient funds are available to provide benefits as and when
    required under the terms of the plans. The Company utilizes
    investments that provide benefits and maximizes the long-term
    investment performance of the plans without taking on undue risk
    while complying with various legal funding requirements. The
    Company through its investment advisors has developed detailed
    asset and liability models to aid in implementing optimal asset
    allocation strategies. Equity securities are invested in equity
    indexed funds, which minimizes concentration risk while offering
    market returns. The debt securities are invested in a long-term
    bond indexed fund which provides a stable low risk return. The
    guaranteed investment certificates allow the Company to closely
    match a portion of the liability to the expected payout of
    benefit with little risk.

The Company, in consultation with its actuaries, analyzes
    current market trends, the current plan performance and expected
    market performance of both the equity and bond markets to arrive
    at the expected return on each asset category over the long term.

The Company expects to contribute approximately
    $2.8 million for its pension obligations and approximately
    $0.8 million to its other postretirement plan in 2007. The
    benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, offset
    by the expected Medicare Prescription Drug subsidies, are as
    follows:

The Company has agreements with two individuals that upon
    retirement, or death or disability prior to retirement, it shall
    make ten payments of $0.1 million each to the two employees
    or their beneficiaries for a ten-year period and is 100% vested.
    The liability required for these agreements was fully accrued
    and is included in other long-term liabilities as of
    August 31, 2006 and 2005. In connection with these
    agreements, the Company owns and is the beneficiary of life
    insurance policies amounting to $2.0 million.

NOTE 8  
    ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

The components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income are as
    follows:

Foreign currency translation gains are not tax effected as such
    gains are considered permanently reinvested. Minimum pension
    liability adjustments are recorded net of tax using the
    applicable effective tax rate.

NOTE 9  
    INCENTIVE STOCK PLANS

Effective in December 1991, the Company adopted the 1991 Stock
    Incentive Plan. The 1991 Plan provided for the grant of
    incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options and
    restricted stock awards. The option price for incentive stock
    options was the fair market value of the common shares on the
    date of grant. In the case of nonqualified stock options, the
    Company granted options at fair market value on the date of
    grant. However, the Plan provided that the option price may not
    be less than 50% of the fair market value of the common shares
    on the date of grant. Stock options may be exercised as

52

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

determined by the Company, but in no event prior to six months
    following the date of grant or after the 10th anniversary
    date of grant. Effective in October 1992, the Company adopted
    the 1992 Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan to
    provide for the grant of nonqualified stock options and
    restricted stock awards. The option price was the fair market
    value of the common shares on the first business day immediately
    preceding the date of grant. All options become exercisable at
    the rate of 25% per year, commencing on the first
    anniversary of the date of grant of the option. Each option
    expired five years from the date of grant. Both the 1991 and
    1992 Plans have expired and no further shares are available for
    issuance.

Effective in December 2002, the Company adopted the 2002 Equity
    Incentive Plan which provided for the grant of incentive stock
    options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock awards and
    director deferred units for employees and non-employee
    directors. The option price of incentive stock options is the
    fair market value of the common shares on the date of the grant.
    In the case of nonqualified options, the Company grants options
    at 100% of the fair market value of the common shares on the
    date of the grant. All options become exercisable at the rate of
    33% per year, commencing on the first anniversary date of
    the grant. Each option expires ten years from the date of the
    grant. On August 31, 2006, 1,722,686 shares are
    available for grants of non-qualified stock options pursuant to
    the Company s 2002 Equity Incentive Plan. It has been the
    Company s practice to issue new common shares upon stock
    option exercise.

On September 1, 2005, the Company adopted Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004),
    ( SFAS 123R ), Share-Based Payment, which
    requires the Company to measure all employee stock-based
    compensation awards using a fair value method and record the
    related expense in the financial statements. The Company elected
    to use the modified prospective transition method. The modified
    prospective transition method requires that compensation cost be
    recognized in the financial statements for all awards granted
    after the date of adoption as well as for existing awards for
    which the requisite service has not been rendered as of the date
    of adoption and requires that prior periods not be restated. All
    periods presented prior to September 1, 2005 were accounted
    for in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion
    No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and
    followed a nominal vesting period approach.

The adoption of SFAS 123R reduced income before taxes for
    year ended August 31, 2006 by approximately
    $4.5 million ($0.15 per basic and diluted share).
    These expenses are included in selling, general and
    administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated
    statement of income. The first quarter of fiscal 2006 included
    approximately $1.0 million of charges related to the
    accelerated vesting of retirement eligible employees under the
    non-substantive vesting period approach applied to new grants
    after adoption. The expense recorded did not impact income tax
    expense since the Company s deferred tax assets are fully
    reserved by a valuation allowance. There was no impact to the
    statement of cash flows related to the adoption of
    SFAS 123R. In addition, Unearned Stock Grant Compensation
    of $3.2 million was reclassified to Other Capital in
    stockholders  equity upon adoption of SFAS 123R.

The following table illustrates the effect on net income and
    earnings per share had the fair value based method been applied
    to measure compensation cost for prior periods presented:

The total stock-based employee compensation expense for the
    years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004 was calculated using
    the nominal vesting period approach.

53

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The weighted-average fair value of stock-based awards was $7.94
    for the January 2006 grant, $6.20 for the October 2005 grant,
    $5.93 for fiscal 2005 grants and $5.97 for fiscal 2004 grants.
    These values were estimated at the date of grant using a
    Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
    weighted-average assumptions:

The expected lives of the awards are based on historical
    exercise patterns and the terms of the options. The risk-free
    interest rate is based on zero coupon treasury bond rates
    corresponding to the expected life of the awards. The expected
    volatility assumption was derived by referring to changes in the
    Company s historical common stock prices over the same
    timeframe as the expected life of the awards. The expected
    dividend yield of common stock is based on the Company s
    historical dividend yield. The Company has no reason to believe
    that future stock volatility or the expected dividend yield is
    likely to differ from historical patterns.

A summary of stock options is as follows:

The intrinsic value of a stock option is the amount by which the
    market value of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price
    of the option. The total intrinsic value of options exercised
    during the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was
    approximately $4.6 million, $1.6 million and
    $3.9 million, respectively. The intrinsic value for stock
    options exercisable at August 31, 2006 was
    $2.8 million with a remaining term for options exercisable
    of 7.1 years. For stock options outstanding at
    August 31, 2006, exercise prices range from $11.62 to
    $24.69. The weighted average remaining contractual life for
    options outstanding at August 31, 2006 was 8 years.
    Stock options vested and expected to vest at August 31,
    2006 were 1,550,463 with a remaining contractual term of
    0.6 years and a weighted-average exercise price of $18.92.
    The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options vested and
    expected to vest was $7.3 million.

Total unrecognized compensation cost, including forfeitures,
    related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements at
    August 31, 2006 was approximately $5.4 million. This
    cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period
    of approximately 1.2 years.

The total fair value of options vested during the years ended
    August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was approximately
    $3.6 million, $3.0 million and $1.7 million,
    respectively.

54

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Restricted stock awards under the 2002 Equity Incentive Plan
    vest over four years following the date of grant. Restricted
    stock awards issued previous to this Plan vest over five years
    following the date of grant. The following table summarizes the
    outstanding restricted stock awards and weighted-average fair
    market value:

Unearned compensation for grants under the 1991 Plan
    representing the fair market value of the shares at the date of
    grant is charged to income over the five-year vesting period.
    Unearned compensation for grants under the 2002 Plan
    representing the fair market value of the shares at the date of
    grant is charged to income over the four-year vesting period.
    Compensation expense for restricted stock was $1.5 million
    in 2006 $1.1 million in 2005 and $1.4 million in 2004.

In October 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
    ( FSP )
     No. 123R-2 
    ( FSP 123R-2 ), Practical Accommodation to the
    Application of Grant Date as Defined in FASB Statement
    No. 123R, to provide guidance on determining the grant date
    for an award as defined in SFAS 123R. FSP 123R-2 stipulates
    that assuming all other criteria in the grant date definition
    are met, a mutual understanding of the key terms and conditions
    of an award to an individual employee is presumed to exist upon
    the award s approval in accordance with the relevant
    corporate governance requirements, provided that the key terms
    and conditions of an award (a) cannot be negotiated by the
    recipient with the employer because the award is a unilateral
    grant, and (b) are expected to be communicated to an
    individual recipient within a relatively short time period from
    the date of approval. The Company has applied the principles set
    forth in FSP 123R-2 upon its adoption of SFAS 123R on
    September 1, 2005.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP
     No. 123R-3 
    ( FSP 123R-3 ), Transition Election Related to
    Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards to
    provide an alternative transition election related to accounting
    for the tax effects of share-based payment awards to employees
    to the guidance provided in Paragraph 81 of SFAS 123R.
    The guidance in FSP 123R-3 was effective on November 11,
    2005. An entity may take up to one year from the later of its
    initial adoption of SFAS 123R or the effective date of FSP
    123R-3 to evaluate its available transition alternatives and
    make its one-time election. Until and unless an entity elects
    the transition method described in FSP 123R-3, the entity should
    follow the transition method described in Paragraph 81 of
    SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R requires an entity to calculate
    the pool of excess tax benefits available to absorb tax
    deficiencies recognized subsequent to adopting
    Statement 123R (termed the  APIC Pool ). The
    Company is using the transition method as described in
    Paragraph 81 of SFAS 123R.

NOTE 10  
    EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income
    available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number
    of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings
    per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if
    common stock equivalents were exercised and then shared in the
    earnings of the Company.

55

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The difference between basic and diluted weighted-average common
    shares results from the assumed exercise of outstanding stock
    options and grants of restricted stock, calculated using the
    treasury stock method. The following presents the number of
    incremental weighted-average shares used in computing diluted
    per share amounts:

For fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004, there were approximately
    1.0 million, 1.1 million and 1.4 million,
    respectively, of equivalent shares related to stock options and
    restricted stock that were excluded from diluted
    weighted-average shares outstanding because inclusion would have
    been anti-dilutive.

The following presents the computation of adjusted net income
    used in computing net income per share:

NOTE 11  
    CAPITAL STOCK AND STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN

The Board of Directors approved 1,000,000 shares of special
    stock with special designations, preferences and relative,
    participating, optional or other special rights, and
    qualifications, limitations or restrictions as determined by the
    Board of Directors.

On January 26, 2006, the Board of Directors adopted a
    Shareholder Rights Plan and, on February 9, 2006,
    distributed Rights to each record holder of the Company s
    Common Stock on that date. Each Right is attached to each share
    of Common Stock and entitles the registered holder to purchase
    from the Company a unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a
    share of Series A Junior Participating Special Stock, a
    series of the Special Stock, at a Purchase Price of
    $85.00 per unit (the  Purchase Price ), subject
    to adjustment.

Initially, the Rights are to be attached to all Common Stock
    certificates representing shares then outstanding, and no
    separate Rights certificate will be distributed. The Rights will
    separate from the Common Stock and will be distributed (the
     Distribution Date ) upon the earlier of
    (i) 10 days following a public announcement that a
    person or group of affiliated or associated persons (an
     Acquiring Person ) has acquired, or obtained the
    right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the
    outstanding shares of Common Stock (the  Stock Acquisition
    Date ) or (ii) 10 business days following the
    commencement of a tender offer or exchange offer that would
    result in a person or group beneficially owning 20% or more of
    such outstanding shares of Common Stock. The Rights are not
    exercisable until the Distribution Date and will expire at the
    close of business on February 9, 2012, unless earlier
    redeemed by the Company. Until a Right is exercised, the holder
    will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company, including,
    without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends.

If an Acquiring Person becomes the beneficial owner of 20% or
    more of the then outstanding shares of Common Stock, each holder
    of a Right will thereafter have the right to receive, upon
    exercise, Common Stock (or, in certain circumstances, cash,
    property or other securities of the Company), having a value
    equal to two times the Exercise Price of the Right. The Exercise
    Price is the Purchase Price times the number of shares of Common
    Stock associated with each Right (initially, one).
    Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, following the occurrence
    of any of the events set forth in this paragraph (the
     Flip-In

56

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Events ), all Rights that are, or (under certain
    circumstances specified in the Rights Agreement) were,
    beneficially owned by any Acquiring Person will be null and void.

If following the Stock Acquisition Date, (i) the Company
    engages in a merger or business combination transaction in which
    the Company is not the surviving corporation; (ii) the
    Company engages in a merger or business combination transaction
    in which the Company is the surviving corporation and the Common
    Stock of the Company is changed or exchanged; or (iii) 50%
    or more of the Company s assets or earning power is sold or
    transferred, each holder of a Right (except Rights which have
    previously been voided as set forth above) shall thereafter have
    the right to receive, upon exercise of the Right, Common Stock
    of the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the
    Exercise Price of the Right.

The Purchase Price payable, and the number of Units of Special
    Stock or other securities or property issuable upon exercise of
    the Rights are subject to adjustment from time to time to
    prevent dilution. At any time until 10 days following the
    Stock Acquisition Date, the Company may redeem the Rights in
    whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.01 per Right.
    Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors ordering
    redemption of the Rights, the Rights will terminate and the only
    right of the holders of Rights will be to receive the $0.01
    redemption price.

See Note 18 for information on subsequent event.

NOTE 12  
    LEASES

The Company leases certain equipment, buildings, transportation
    vehicles and computer equipment. Total rental expense was
    $6.0 million in 2006, $5.8 million in 2005, and
    $5.4 million in 2004. The future minimum rental commitments
    for operating non-cancelable leases excluding obligations for
    taxes, insurance, etc. are as follows:

NOTE 13  
    SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company is engaged in the sale of plastic resins in various
    forms, which are used as raw materials by its customers. To
    identify reportable segments, the Company considered its
    operating structure and the types of information subject to
    regular review by its President and Chief Executive Officer, who
    is the Chief Operating Decision Maker. On this basis, the
    Company operates primarily in two geographic segments, North
    America and Europe, including Asia ( Europe ).

The North American segment includes operations conducted in the
    United States, Canada, and Mexico. The Company s European
    segment includes operations conducted in Belgium, France,
    Germany, Poland, Hungary, Indonesia, Italy, Spain, Switzerland,
    China, Luxembourg, Denmark and the United Kingdom. The
    accounting policies of each business segment are consistent with
    those described in the  Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies. 

Operating income includes all items except for interest expense,
    interest income, restructuring, loss on extinguishment of debt,
    goodwill impairment and taxes. Corporate expenses have been
    allocated between the North American and European segments.
    Assets of geographic segments represent those assets identified
    with the operation of each segment.

57

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

58

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Below is a summary of sales by point of origin and assets by
    location:

The majority of the Company s sales for the years ended
    August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 can be classified into five
    primary product families. The approximate amount and percentage
    of consolidated sales for these product families are as follows:

NOTE 14  
    CONTINGENCIES

The Company is engaged in various legal proceedings arising in
    the ordinary course of business. The ultimate outcome of these
    proceedings is not expected to have a material adverse effect on
    the Company s financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.

During fiscal 2006, a railroad company filed suit against the
    Company seeking compensatory damages and reimbursement of
    environmental costs to investigate and remediate property
    located near its Bellevue, Ohio facility. The Company
    subsequently filed an answer to this complaint and both parties
    are now conducting discovery. Management of the Company, in
    consultation with legal counsel, is of the opinion that a valid
    cause of action does not exist. The Company will continue to
    pursue resolution of this matter. The Company has not recorded a
    reserve relating to this matter. The ultimate outcome of this
    matter is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.

NOTE 15  
    TENDER OFFER AND SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM

On February 21, 2006 the Company announced that its Board
    of Directors approved a modified Dutch auction self-tender offer
    for up to 8.75 million shares of its common stock, at a
    price between $21.00 and $24.00 per share. The Company
    commenced the self-tender offer on March 1, 2006 and it
    expired on April 11, 2006. On April 25, 2006 the
    Company announced the final results of the self-tender offer
    where the Company accepted for purchase 2,071,585 shares at
    a price of $24.00 per share for a total of approximately
    $49.7 million. The Company also incurred costs in
    connection with the self-tender of $0.5 million in legal
    and professional fees.

59

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

On April 25, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of
    Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 6.75 million
    shares of its outstanding common stock (the  Repurchase
    Program ). This authorized share amount in the Repurchase
    Program equated to approximately 23.3% of the Company s
    outstanding shares at the authorization date. It is anticipated
    that the Company will complete the Repurchase Program through
    open market repurchases from time to time. The number of shares
    to be repurchased and the timing of repurchases will depend upon
    the prevailing market prices and any other considerations that
    may, in the opinion of the Board of Directors or management,
    affect the advisability of repurchasing shares. The Repurchase
    Program replaced the Company s prior repurchase
    authorization, under which approximately 1.7 million shares
    had remained authorized for repurchase. During the year ended
    August 31, 2006, the Company repurchased 2,000,081 common
    shares under the new program at an average cost of
    $22.76 per share, excluding commissions. Under the current
    plan the Company has approximately 4.7 million shares still
    available to be repurchased. During fiscal 2006, the Company
    purchased approximately 4.1 million shares of its common
    stock at an average price of $23.39 excluding transaction fees
    through the Repurchase Program and self-tender offer.

NOTE 16  
    NORTH AMERICAN RESTRUCTURING

During fiscal 2004, in order to balance capacity with demand,
    the Company closed two manufacturing lines at its Nashville,
    Tennessee plant. As a result, the Company recorded pre-tax
    charges of $0.2 million and $1.8 million for the years
    ended August 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. There were no
    charges related to this plan during the year ended
    August 31, 2006.

The charges were primarily non-cash and are summarized below:

Restructuring charges for 2005 represent additional equipment
    removal costs pertaining to the 2004 Nashville restructuring.
    The employee related costs included severance payments and
    medical insurance for 30 employees at the Nashville facility.
    The other costs included equipment removal and other exit costs
    that were incurred as of August 31, 2005. The accelerated
    depreciation represents a change in estimate for the reduced
    life on equipment totaling $1.4 million. At August 31,
    2005, the restructuring was complete, therefore no further cash
    out-flows were required by the Company.

During fiscal 2003, the Company implemented a restructuring
    program in its North American operations. The purpose of the
    program was to improve cost efficiencies and profitability. A
    large part of this plan included the termination of
    manufacturing at its plant in Orange, Texas. The Company
    completed its 2003 restructuring plan at August 31, 2003.
    As a result, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of
    $8.6 million, net of a curtailment gain of
    $0.3 million, for the year ended August 31, 2003. The
    Company also incurred restructuring expense totaling
    $0.3 million related primarily to the disposal of
    additional equipment and to work pertaining to the closing of
    the Texas facility during fiscal 2004.

60

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The charges for this restructuring were primarily non-cash and
    are summarized below:

The employee related costs included severance payments and
    medical insurance, net of a curtailment gain of
    $0.3 million, for 35 salaried and 97 hourly employees
    primarily at facilities in Ohio and Texas. The curtailment gain
    represents the gain realized from a reduction of the
    post-retirement obligation due to a reduction in the workforce.
    The other costs include a $1.3 million write-down of the
    Texas manufacturing facility, the fair market value of which was
    determined from an independent third party appraisal, a
    $2.3 million write-off and disposal of manufacturing
    equipment and other assets related to dropped product lines and
    other exit costs. The accelerated depreciation represents a
    change in estimate for the reduced life on equipment at the
    Texas manufacturing facility totaling $2.4 million. The
    restructuring was complete at August 31, 2005 therefore no
    further cash out-flows were required by the Company.

See Note 18 for information on subsequent event.

NOTE 17  
    PURCHASE COMMITMENTS

In 2002, the Company entered into a long-term supply agreement
    with a producer of thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU). During
    fiscal 2004, per the terms of the agreement, the Company served
    notice of termination of the supply agreement. As a result of
    further discussions with the producer, the Company reinstated
    the terms of the agreement for minimum usage requirements. The
    Company has been purchasing and the producer has been supplying
    TPU pursuant to the agreement. This agreement will expire during
    fiscal 2007 after which the Company will have no further
    obligation related to purchases from this supplier.

In 2005, the Company entered into a purchase agreement with one
    of its suppliers which required the Company to purchase material
    based on then current market prices. Under this agreement,
    monthly purchases were made at the existing market prices at the
    time of purchase. During fiscal 2006, the Company renegotiated
    this contract with the supplier to adjust the required amount of
    purchases as well as the contract term. Under the new terms, the
    renegotiated agreement is no longer long-term in nature as no
    purchases are required by the Company after fiscal 2007.

NOTE 18  
    SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

In October 2006, the Company reached another agreement with the
    Barington Group, which as of the date of the agreement owned in
    the aggregate 2,816,536 shares, or approximately 10.5% of
    the Company s common stock (the  2006
    Agreement ). Under the terms of the 2006 Agreement, the
    Barington Group withdrew a notice of its intent to nominate
    certain persons for election as directors at the 2006 annual
    meeting, agreed to dismiss a lawsuit it had filed against the
    Company in Delaware seeking to enforce its rights as a
    stockholder to inspect and copy certain books, records and
    documents of the Company, and agreed to abide by certain
    standstill provisions until the Company s 2007 annual
    meeting. The Company has made several commitments under the 2006
    Agreement, including agreeing to redeem any rights issued to the
    Company s stockholders under the Shareholder Rights Plan,
    and to cause the Rights Plan to be terminated and of no further
    force or effect, on or prior to the 2006 Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders. The Company agreed, among other things, to
    nominate James S. Marlen, Ernest J. Novak, Jr. (each
    current directors of the Company), Howard R. Curd and Michael A.
    McManus, Jr.

61

Table of Contents   

A. Schulman,
    Inc. 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

on the Board s slate of nominees for election as
    Class II directors of the Company at the 2006 annual
    meeting. The 2006 Agreement also superseded the 2005 Agreement,
    except with respect to Sections 5(d), 6(a) and 9 of the
    2005 Agreement.

In October 2006, in order to balance capacity with demand,
    reduce costs and improve efficiencies in North America, the
    Company announced its intentions to close two of its
    manufacturing lines at its Orange, Texas plant, close a
    warehouse also located in Orange, Texas and reduce the workforce
    at its Bellevue, Ohio plant. As a result, the Company expects to
    record a charge during fiscal 2007 in an estimated range of
    $1.0 million to $3.0 million. The Company expects the
    charge to include costs such as severance payments, medical
    insurance, accelerated depreciation, equipment removal costs,
    other exit costs and the impact on its postretirement obligation
    due to the reduction in the workforce.

NOTE 19  
    QUARTERLY FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (UNAUDITED)

62

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9.  

CHANGES IN AND
    DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
    DISCLOSURES

None.

ITEM 9A.  

CONTROLS AND
    PROCEDURES

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that
    are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed
    in the Company s reports under the Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and
    reported within the time periods specified in the
    Commission s rules and forms and that such information is
    accumulated and communicated to the Company s management,
    including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer, as appropriate, to allow for timely decisions regarding
    required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure
    controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls
    and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can
    provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired
    control objectives, and management is required to apply its
    judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible
    controls and procedures.

The Company carries out a variety of on-going procedures, under
    the supervision and with the participation of the Company s
    management, including the Company s Chief Executive Officer
    and Chief Financial Officer, to evaluate the effectiveness of
    the design and operation of the Company s disclosure
    controls and procedures. Based on the foregoing, the
    Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls
    and procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level as
    of the end of the period covered by this report.

There has been no change in the Company s internal controls
    over financial reporting during the Company s most recent
    fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the Company s internal
    controls over financial reporting.

MANAGEMENT S
    REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined
    in Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(f). 
    The Company s internal control over financial reporting is
    a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Under the supervision and with the participation of management,
    including the chief executive officer and chief financial
    officer, the Company conducted an evaluation of the
    effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting based on the framework in   Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. Based on this assessment, management has concluded
    that the internal control over financial reporting was effective
    as of August 31, 2006.

Management s assessment of the effectiveness of the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    August 31, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated
    in their report included herein.

63

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9B.  OTHER
    INFORMATION

None.

PART III  

ITEM 10.  

DIRECTORS AND
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Conduct, available
    on the Company s website at www.aschulman.com for the
    Company s employees, officers and directors. To further
    assure compliance, the Company maintains a worldwide hotline
    that allows employees to report confidentially any complaints
    about accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing
    matters, or detected violations of its Code of Conduct.

The Board of Directors has a separately-designated audit
    committee established in accordance with
    Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
    as amended. The Board of Directors has determined that Ernest J.
    Novak, Jr. is an  audit committee financial
    expert  as defined in regulations adopted by the Securities
    and Exchange Commission. Mr. Novak is independent under The
    NASDAQ Stock Market LLC standards.

The information required in response to this Item in respect of
    Directors is set forth under the captions  Election of
    Directors  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial
    Ownership Compliance  in the Company s proxy statement
    for its 2006 Annual Meeting (the  Proxy Statement )
    for which information is incorporated herein by reference. The
    information required by this Item in respect of Executive
    Officers is set forth in the Proxy Statement under the caption
     Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Compliance  in the
    Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. The
    information required in response to this Item in respect of
    changes to the procedures by which security holders may
    recommend nominees to the Board of Directors is set forth under
    the caption  Corporate Governance   Board
    Committees   Nominating and Corporate Governance
    Committee  in the Proxy Statement and is incorporated
    herein by reference.

ITEM 11.  

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION

Information in response to this Item is set forth under the
    caption  Compensation of Executive Officers  in the
    Proxy Statement for which information is incorporated herein by
    reference.

ITEM 12.  

SECURITY OWNERSHIP
    OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information in response to this Item is set forth under the
    caption  Security Ownership of Management and Certain
    Beneficial Owners  in the Proxy Statement for which
    information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information in response to this Item is set forth under the
    caption  Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  in the Proxy Statement which information is
    incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.  

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT
    FEES AND SERVICES

The information for this Item is included under the caption
     Ratification of Selection of Independent Registered Public
    Accountants  in the Proxy Statement for which information
    is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV  

ITEM 15.  

EXHIBITS AND
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a) The following documents are filed as a part of this
    report:

(1) Financial Statements

The consolidated financial statements files as part of this
     Form 10-K 
    are located as set forth in the index on page 34 of this
    report.

64

Table of Contents   

(2) Financial Statement Schedules:

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

F-1

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
    or the required information is shown in the financial statements
    or notes thereto.

(3) Exhibits:

65

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number  

10(x)*

A. Schulman, Inc. 2002 Equity
    Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Award Agreement (Employee Form)
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company s Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 18, 2004).

10(y)*

A. Schulman, Inc. 2002 Equity
    Incentive Plan Stock Option Award Agreement (Director Form)
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company s Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 18, 2004).

10(z)*

A. Schulman, Inc. 2002 Equity
    Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Award Agreement (Director Form)
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
    Company s Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 18, 2004).

10(aa)

A. Schulman, Inc. 2002 Equity
    Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company s Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated May 12, 2005).

10(bb)

Credit Agreement, dated as of
    February 28, 2006, among A. Schulman, Inc., A. Schulman
    Europe GmbH, A. Schulman Plastics, S.A., and A. Schulman
    International Services NV, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
    administrative agent, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as
    European agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as Sole Bookrunner
    and Sole Lead Arranger and the lenders party to the Credit
    Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the
    Company s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated February 28, 2006).

10(cc)

Note Purchase Agreement, dated
    as of March 1, 2006, by and between A. Schulman Europe
    GmbH, A. Schulman, Inc. and the Purchasers and Guarantors named
    therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the
    Company s current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated February 28, 2006).

10(dd)

ISDA (International Swap Dealers
    Association, Inc.) Master Agreement by and between KeyBank
    National Association and the Company dated January 13, 2004
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ff) to the
    Company s
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2004).

10(ee)

Agreement dated October 21,
    2005 among the Company, Barington Capital Group, L.P. and others
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the
    Company s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 21, 2005).

10(ff)

Agreement dated October 25,
    2006 among the Company, Barington Capital Group, L.P. and others
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the
    Company s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 25, 2006).

10(gg)*

Non-Employee Directors Compensation
    (filed herewith)

10(hh)*

The Company s Directors
    Deferred Units Plan, as amended and restated effective
    October 17, 2006  (incorporated by reference to the
    Company s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 16, 2006).

10(ii)

Form of Indemnification Agreement
    for all Executive Officers and Directors of the Company
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the
    Company s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 16, 2006).

10(jj)*

The Company s 2007 Bonus Plan
    (incorporated by reference to the Company s Current Report
    on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 16, 2006).

11

Computation of Basic and Diluted
    Earnings Per Common Share (filed herewith).

21

Subsidiaries of the Company (filed
    herewith).

23

Consent of Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm (filed herewith).

24

Powers of Attorney (filed herewith).

31

Certifications of Principal
    Executive and Principal Financial Officers pursuant to
     Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 
    (filed herewith).

32

Certifications of Principal
    Executive and Principal Financial Officers pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. 1350 (filed herewith).

*  

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required
    to be filed as an Exhibit hereto. 

(b)  

Exhibits. 

See subparagraph (a)(3) above 

(c)  

Financial Statement Schedules. 

See subparagraph (a)(2) above 

66

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

A. SCHULMAN, INC.

By: 

/s/  Paul
    F. DeSantis

Paul F. DeSantis

Chief Financial Officer

Dated: November 3, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Company and in the capacities and on the date
    indicated.

Signature  

Title  

Date  

/s/  Terry
    L. Haines

Terry
    L. Haines 

Director and Principal Executive
    Officer

November 3, 2006

/s/  Paul
    F. DeSantis

Paul
    F. DeSantis 

Principal Financial Officer and 
    Principal Accounting Officer

November 3, 2006

*

David
    G. Birney 

Director

*

Joseph
    M. Gingo 

Director

*

Willard
    R. Holland 

Director

*

James
    A. Karman 

Director

*

James
    S. Marlen 

Director

*

Peggy
    Miller 

Director

James
    A. Mitarotonda 

Director

*

Ernest
    J. Novak, Jr. 

Director

*

Paul
    Craig Roberts 

Director

67

Table of Contents   

Signature  

Title  

Date  

*

John
    B. Yasinsky 

Director

*By:

/s/   Terry
    L. Haines  

Terry
    L. Haines 
     Attorney-in-Fact 

November 3, 2006

*  

Powers of attorney authorizing Terry L. Haines to sign this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    on behalf of certain Directors of the Company are being filed
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission herewith. 

68

Table of Contents   

F-1  

69

Table of Contents   

A. SCHULMAN,
    INC. 
    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
     
     Schedule F-1   

70

<EX-10.GG>
 2
 l22086aexv10wgg.htm
 EX-10(GG)

EX-10(GG) 

Exhibit
10.gg

Director Compensation

Each Director of the Corporation who is not an employee of the Corporation receives an annual
Director s fee of $29,000, plus $1,500 for each Board or committee meeting attended. Further, any
Director serving as a Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee or the Nominating
and Corporate Governance Committee receives an additional annual fee of $8,500, $7,500 or $6,000,
respectively.  Each Director has the option to defer payment of all or a specified portion of his or
her Director s fees under the terms of the Directors Deferred
Units Plan.  Non-Employee Directors are also eligible for grants under the Corporation s 2002 Equity Incentive Plan and, on
February 1, 2006, each non-employee Director of the Corporation received an award of 2,000
restricted shares of Common Stock.

</EX-10.GG>

<EX-11>
 3
 l22086aexv11.htm
 EX-11

EX-11 

Exhibit 11

Computation of Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Common Share

A. Schulman Inc.

Computation of Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Common Share.

</EX-11>

<EX-21>
 4
 l22086aexv21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

Exhibit 21

Subsidiaries of the Registrant

SUBSIDIARIES OF A. SCHULMAN, INC.

Jurisdiction 

Name 
       
     of Incorporation/Organization 

A. Schulman Plastics, BVBA(11)

Belgium 

A. Schulman, S.A.(2)

France 

A. Schulman Plastics, S.A.(2)

France 

Diffusion Plastique(3)

France 

A. Schulman GmbH(10)

Germany 

A. Schulman, Inc., Limited(2)

United Kingdom 

A. Schulman Canada Ltd.

Ontario, Canada 

A. Schulman AG(3)

Switzerland 

ASI Investments Holding Co.

Delaware 

ASI Akron Land Co.

Delaware 

A. Schulman International, Inc.

Delaware 

A. Schulman de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.(4)

Mexico 

ASI Employment, S.A. de C.V.(4)

Mexico 

AS Mex Hold, S.A. de C.V.(5)

Mexico 

Texas Polymer Services, Inc.

Ohio 

A. Schulman Polska Sp. z o.0.(6)

Poland 

A. Schulman Plastics SpA(2)

Italy 

A. Schulman International Services N.V.(2)

Belgium 

A. Schulman Hungary Kft.(6)

Hungary 

PT A. Schulman Plastics, Indonesia(7)

Indonesia 

The Sunprene Company(8)

Ohio 

A. Schulman Plastics S.L.(1)

Spain 

A. Schulman Europe GmbH(2)

Germany 

A. Schulman Plastics (Dongguan) Ltd.(1)

China 

A. Schulman Italia S.p.A.(2)

Italy 

A. Schulman S. r.l et Cie SCS(12)

Luxembourg 

A. Schulman S. r.l

Luxembourg 

A. Schulman Holdings S. r.l(9)

Luxembourg 

A. Schulman Invision, Inc.

Delaware 

(1) 
       
     Owned by A. Schulman Europe GmbH 

(2) 
       
     Owned by A. Schulman Plastics, BVBA 

(3) 
       
     Owned by A. Schulman, S.A. 

(4) 
       
     Owned by AS MexHold, S.A. de C.V. 

(5) 
       
     Owned by A. Schulman International, Inc. 

(6) 
       
     Owned by A. Schulman GmbH 

(7) 
       
     65% owned (in joint venture) by A. Schulman International, Inc. 

(8) 
       
     70% owned (in partnership) by ASI Investments Holding Co. 

(9) 
       
     Owned by A. Schulman S. r.l et cie SCS 

(10) 
       
     Owned 90% by A. Schulman Europe GmhH and 10% by A. Schulman, Inc. 

(11) 
       
     Owned by A. Schulman Holdings S. r.l 

(12) 
       
     99% owned by A. Schulman, Inc. and 1% owned by A. Schulman S. r.l 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 l22086aexv23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

Exhibit 23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Nos.
33-69042, 333-93093, 333-102718) of A. Schulman, Inc. of our report
dated November 2, 2006 relating
to the financial statements, financial statement schedule, management s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

Cleveland, Ohio 
 November 2, 2006 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 6
 l22086aexv24.htm
 EX-24

EX-24 

Exhibit 24

Power of Attorney

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

Each director and/or officer of A. Schulman, Inc. (the  Corporation ) whose signature
appears below hereby appoints TERRY L. HAINES, GARY J. ELEK, and PAUL F. DESANTIS, and each of them, with full
power of substitution and resubstitution, as attorneys or attorney to sign for the undersigned and
in his or her name, place and stead, and in any and all capacities stated below, and to cause to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ), the Corporation s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, and likewise to sign and file with
the Commission any and all amendments (on Form 10-K/A) and exhibits thereto, and any and all
applications and documents to be filed with the Commission pertaining to such Annual Report, with
full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things whatsoever requisite,
necessary or advisable to be done in the premises, as fully and for all intents and purposes as
each of the undersigned could so if personally present, hereby ratifying and approving the acts of
said attorneys and any of them and any such substitute.

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands effective as of the 17 th  day of
October, 2006.

/s/ Terry L. Haines

President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman 

Terry L. Haines

(Principal Executive Officer) 

/s/ Paul F. DeSantis

Chief Financial Officer 

Paul F. Desantis

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

/s/ David G Birney

Director 

David G. Birney

/s/ Joseph M. Gingo

Director 

Joseph M. Gingo

/s/ Willard R. Holland

Director 

Willard R. Holland

/s/ James A. Karman

Director 

James A. Karman

/s/ James S. Marlen

Director 

James S. Marlen

/s/ Peggy Miller

Director 

Dr. Peggy Miller

Director 

James A. Mitarontanda

/s/ Ernest J. Novak, Jr.

Director 

Ernest J. Novak, Jr.

/s/ Paul Craig Roberts

Director 

Paul Craig Roberts

/s/ John B. Yasinsky

Director 

John B. Yasinsky

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 7
 l22086aexv31.htm
 EX-31

EX-31 

Exhibit 31

Certifications of Principal Executive and Principal Financial Officers Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)

CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a)/15D-14(a)

I, Terry L. Haines, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of A. Schulman, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)), and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors
and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:
November 3, 2006

/s/ Terry L. Haines 

Terry L. Haines

President and Chief Executive Officer 

CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER 
PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a)/15D-14(a)

I, Paul F. DeSantis, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of A. Schulman, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)), and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors
and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:
November 3, 2006

/s/ Paul F. DeSantis 

Paul F. DeSantis

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 8
 l22086aexv32.htm
 EX-32

EX-32 

Exhibit 32

Certifications of Principal Executive and Principal Financial Officers Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report of A. Schulman, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the
period ending August 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned officer of the Company does hereby certify that:

(a) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

(b) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Terry L. Haines

Terry L. Haines

President and Chief Executive Officer of A. Schulman, Inc.

November 3, 2006

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report of A. Schulman, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the
period ending August 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned officer of the Company does hereby certify that:

(a) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

(b) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Paul F. DeSantis

Paul F. DeSantis

Chief Financial Officer of A. Schulman, Inc.

November 3, 2006

</EX-32>

