<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061214_10-K_edgar_data_56978_0001193125-06-253495_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1307531</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>278944</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>825182</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>72</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-06-253495.hdr.sgml : 20061214
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061214171747
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-06-253495
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061214
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			KULICKE & SOFFA INDUSTRIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000056978
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				231498399
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			PA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-00121
		FILM NUMBER:		061277961

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1005 VIRGINIA DRIVE
		CITY:			FT. WASHINGTON
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19034
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2157846000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1005 VIRGINIA DRIVE
		CITY:			FT. WASHINGTON
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19034

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 O99PcXoF2uM2mwUh+XHA8C9+CDvBpG3qBfaxLZU6iGFEXUXRiAWUxNqeVGxb4rpQ
 Lt/DEsarb4ZbmzEBJjottg==

 0001193125-06-253495.txt : 20061214

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 KULICKE AND SOFFA INDUSTRIES INC--FORM 10-K

Kulicke and Soffa Industries Inc--Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549             FORM 10-K             

     For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006        OR        
     For the transition period from                to
              .           Commission file number 0-121   
            KULICKE AND
SOFFA INDUSTRIES, INC.        (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)             
     1005 VIRGINIA DRIVE, FORT WASHINGTON, PENNSYLVANIA 19034        (Address of principal executive offices)        Registrants telephone number including area code (215) 784-6000             Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        None        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:        COMMON STOCK, WITHOUT PAR VALUE        (Title of Class)            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes           No             Indicate by check mark if the registrant
is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes           No             Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      Large
accelerated filer             Accelerated filer           Non-accelerated filer               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes           No           The aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock (its only voting stock and common equity) held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of April 1, 2006 was approximately $532,214,000 based upon
the closing sale price of the common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market (Reference is made to Part II, Item 5 herein for a statement of assumptions upon which this calculation is based).      As of December 1, 2006 there were 57,323,065 shares of the registrant s common stock, without par value, outstanding.       Documents Incorporated by Reference       Portions of the
registrant s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Shareholders  Meeting to be filed on or about January 3, 2007 are incorporated by reference into Part III, Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 herein of this Report. Such Proxy Statement,
except for the parts therein which have been specifically incorporated by reference, shall not be deemed  filed  for the purposes of this Report on Form 10-K.        

Table of Contents  

KULICKE AND SOFFA INDUSTRIES, INC.        2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K        Table of Contents        

Page    

Part I    

Item 1.  

Business   
      
  2   

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors   
      
  10   

Item 2.  

Properties   
      
  19   

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings   
      
  19   

Item 4.  

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  19   

Part II    

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  20   

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data   
      
  21   

Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  24   

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  44   

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  46   

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  80   

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures   
      
  80   

Item 9B.  

Other Information   
      
  82   

Part III    

Item 10.  

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   
      
  82   

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation   
      
  83   

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management   
      
  83   

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   
      
  83   

Item 14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
      
  83   

Part IV    

Item 15.  

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
      
  83   
       
   1   

Table of Contents  

PART I        In addition to historical information, this filing contains statements relating to future events or our future
results. These statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
 Exchange Act ), and are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by statute. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to our future revenue, product development, demand forecasts,
competitiveness, operating expenses, cash flows, profitability, gross margins, and benefits expected as a result of (among other factors):        

the projected growth rates in the overall semiconductor industry, the semiconductor assembly equipment market, and the market for semiconductor packaging materials;
and          

the projected continuing demand for wire bonder and die bonder equipment.          Generally, words such as  may,   will,   should,   could,   anticipate,   expect,   intend,   estimate,   plan, 
 continue ,  goal , and  believe,  or the negative of or other variations on these and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this
filing. We do not undertake to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.        Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties and our future results could differ significantly from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These risks and
uncertainties include, without limitation, those described under Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . In light of these and other uncertainties, you should not conclude
that we will necessarily achieve any plans or objectives or projected financial results referred to in any forward-looking statements.        
  Item 1. BUSINESS.       We design, manufacture and market capital equipment and packaging materials as well as service,
maintain, repair and upgrade equipment, all used to assemble semiconductor devices. We are currently the world s leading supplier of semiconductor wire bonding assembly equipment, according to VLSI Research, Inc. Our business is currently
divided into two product segments:       

equipment; and         

packaging materials.        Our goal is to be both the technology leader and
the lowest cost supplier in each of our major lines of business. We believe we are the only major supplier to the semiconductor assembly industry that provides customers with semiconductor wire bonding and die bonding equipment along with the
complementary packaging materials that actually contact the surface of the customer s semiconductor devices. We believe that the ability to control all of these assembly related products provides us with a significant competitive advantage, and
should allow us to develop system solutions to the new technology challenges inherent in assembling and packaging next-generation semiconductor devices.      The semiconductor industry has been historically volatile, with periods of rapid growth followed by downturns. In response to recent downturns, we shifted our strategy, focusing on our larger, more established product lines, and divesting
or discontinuing smaller or more speculative businesses. Additionally, we continuously seek to further reduce our cost structure by moving operations to lower cost areas, moving a portion of our supply chain to lower cost suppliers and increasing
our productivity. We believe the historical volatility of the semiconductor industry both upward and downward will persist.      On November 3,
2006, we completed the acquisition of Alphasem, a leading supplier of die bonder equipment, from Dover Technologies International, Inc., a subsidiary of Dover Corporation. The consideration for the acquisition was approximately $27.1 million in
cash, after a working capital adjustment and subject to further post closing adjustments. Alphasem will be integrated into our equipment segment.         
   2   

Table of Contents  

   During the three months ended April 1, 2006, we committed to a plan of disposal and sold our test business in two
separate transactions as follows:       

1.  
  On March 3, 2006, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets and certain of the liabilities of our wafer test business to SV Probe, PTE. Ltd. ( SV
Probe ) for initial proceeds of $10.0 million in cash plus the assumption of accounts payable and certain other liabilities, subject to a post-closing working capital adjustment that was settled in the three months ended July 1, 2006.
Certain accounts receivable were excluded from the assets sold.         

2.  
  On March 31, 2006, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets and certain of the liabilities of our package test business to Antares conTech, Inc., an entity
formed by Investcorp Technology Ventures II, L.P. and its affiliates (collectively  Investcorp ) for initial proceeds of $17.0 million in cash plus the assumption of accounts payable and certain other liabilities, subject to a post-closing
working capital adjustment that was settled in the three months ended July 1, 2006.        We recorded a loss of $0.8 million on the disposal
of our test business. We sold the test business to strengthen our focus on our core businesses   semiconductor assembly equipment and materials   and explore growth opportunities in these markets.      As part of the terms of each sale noted above, the associated China-based assets were not transferred to the buyers on the above referenced closing dates, as neither
buyer had a legal entity in China that could accept the transfer of the China-based assets as of the closing date. The China-based assets associated with the sale to SV Probe were transferred to SV Probe in September 2006 and the China-based assets
associated with the sale to Antares conTech were transferred to Antares conTech in December 2006, without additional consideration. In addition, we provided manufacturing and other transition services (invoiced at cost) to SV Probe through
September 1, 2006 and provided these services to Antares conTech through November 2006.      In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ( SFAS ) No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets , the financial results of the test business have been presented as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements. See
Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report for further discussion of the divestiture of our test business.      Unless otherwise indicated, amounts provided throughout this Form 10-K relate to continuing operations only.      Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc.
was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1956. Our principal offices are located at 1005 Virginia Drive, Fort Washington, Pennsylvania 19034 and our telephone number is (215) 784-6000. We maintain a website with the address www.kns.com. We are not
including the information contained on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this filing. We make available free of charge (other than an investor s own Internet access charges) on or through our website our annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or otherwise furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the  SEC ). Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are also available on the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

    Products and Services       We offer a range of wire bonding and die bonding equipment (and related spare parts) and packaging materials. Set forth below is a table listing the net revenue from continuing operations for each business segment for our fiscal years ended
September 30, 2004, 2005, and 2006:       
    Our equipment sales have been, and are expected to remain, highly volatile due to the semiconductor
industry s need for new capability and capacity. Packaging material unit sales tend to be less volatile, following the trend of total semiconductor unit production; however, fluctuations in gold metal commodity prices can have a significant
impact on reported package material net revenues.      See Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this report, for
financial results by business segment and sales by geographic location.        Equipment        We manufacture and market a line of wire bonders and die bonders. Our wire bonders are used to connect very fine wires, typically made of gold, aluminum or copper,
between the bond pads of a semiconductor die and the leads on the integrated circuit ( IC ) package to which the die has been attached. We believe that our wire bonders offer competitive advantages by providing customers with high
productivity/throughput and superior package quality/process control. In particular, our machines are capable of performing very fine pitch bonding as well as creating the sophisticated wire loop shapes that are needed in the assembly of advanced
semiconductor packages. Our die bonders perform the task of removing a semiconductor die from a previously cut/separated wafer and placing it onto a bed of dispensed epoxy, or tape, which will permanently attach the die to its package substrate.
This step precedes the wire bonding process. We believe our die bonders have good position in the market, serving a wide range of applications. Die bonders and wire bonders share many of the same sub-assemblies, software features, and components and
we believe joining the engineering and manufacturing expertise of these two products will yield superior equipment platforms. Our principal products are:       Ball Bonders . Automatic IC ball bonders represent a large majority of our semiconductor equipment business. As part of our competitive strategy, we have been introducing new models of IC ball bonders every 15
to 24 months, with each new model designed to increase both productivity and process capability compared to its predecessor. We extended the life of the successful Maxum product line introducing the Maxum Ultra to succeed the Maxum Plus and the
Maxum Elite to succeed the Nutek. Each of these machines provides approximately a 10% productivity improvement over its predecessor and offers various other performance improvements.       Specialty Wire Bonders . We also produce other models of wire bonders, targeted at specific market niches, including: the Model 8098, a large area
ball bonder designed for wire bonding hybrid, chip on board applications, and other large area applications; and the Model 8090, a large area wedge bonder. We introduced a new model wafer stud bumper in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the AT
Premier       . The AT Premier        is targeted for gold-to-gold interconnect in the flip chip market. With industry-leading speed and technology, the machine lowers the cost of ownership
for stud bumping, enabling a wider range of applications than previously served. We also manufacture and market a line of manual wire bonders.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

    IC Die Bonders.  In November 2006, we acquired the Alphasem die bonder product lines, consisting of
the SwissLine and EasyLine models. These products are used by many of the same customers and applications that our wire bonders serve today. We expect to utilize the same competitive strategy as our wire bonders by developing new models that will
both improve the productivity of the die bonders and increase the size of the market that the new models will serve.       Specialty Die
Bonders . A portion of the Alphasem product line is a series of specialty bonders that consist of several equipment models based on our die bonder platforms. This equipment is used for various assembly processes that include die sorting, power
device assembly, MEMS assembly, and others.      We believe that our industry knowledge and technical experience have positioned us to deliver innovative,
customer-specific offerings that reduce the cost of owning our equipment over its useful life. In response to customer trends in outsourcing packaging requirements, we provide repair and maintenance services, a variety of equipment upgrades, machine
and component rebuild activities and expanded customer training through our customer operations group.        Packaging Materials        We manufacture and market a range of semiconductor packaging materials and expendable tools for the semiconductor assembly market, including gold, aluminum and copper
wire, capillaries, wedges, die collets and saw blades, all of which are used in packaging and assembly processes. Our packaging materials are designed for use on both our own and our competitors  assembly equipment. A wire bonder uses a
capillary or wedge tool and bonding wire much like a sewing machine uses a needle and thread. Our principal products are:       Bonding
Wire . We manufacture gold, aluminum and copper wire used in the wire bonding process. This wire is bonded to the chip surface and package substrate by the wire bonder and becomes a permanent part of the customer s semiconductor package. We
produce wire to a wide range of specifications, which can satisfy most wire bonding applications across the spectrum of semiconductor packages.       Expendable Tools . Our expendable tools include a wide variety of capillaries, wedges, die collets and wafer saw blades. The capillaries and wedges attach the wire to the semiconductor chip, allow a precise amount of wire to be fed
out to form a permanent wire loop, then attach the wire to the package substrate, and finally cut the wire so that the bonding process can be repeated again. Die collets are used to pick up and place die into packages before the wire bonding process
begins. Our wafer saw blades are used to cut silicon wafers into individual semiconductor die.       Customers       Our major customers include large semiconductor manufacturers and their subcontract assemblers and vertically integrated manufacturers of electronic systems. Customers
may vary from year-to-year based on their capital investment and operating expense budgets.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

   The chart below shows our top ten end-use customers, based on net sales, for each of the last three fiscal years:

Fiscal 2004    
      
     Fiscal 2005    
      
     Fiscal 2006     
 
  1. Advanced Semiconductor Engineering*  
      
  1. Advanced Semiconductor Engineering*  
      
  1. Advanced Semiconductor Engineering*   
 
  2. ST Microelectronics  
      
  2. ST Microelectronics*  
      
  2. ST Microelectronics*   
 
  3. Texas Instruments  
      
  3. Siliconware Precision Industries  
      
  3. STATS ChipPAC   
 
  4. Siliconware Precision Industries  
      
  4. Infineon Technologies  
      
  4. Siliconware Precision Industries   
 
  5. National Semiconductor  
      
  5. Intel  
      
  5. Texas Instruments   
 
  6. STATS ChipPAC  
      
  6. STATS ChipPAC  
      
  6. Infineon Technologies   
 
  7. Infineon Technologies  
      
  7. Samsung  
      
  7. United Test and Assembly Center   
 
  8. Amkor Technologies  
      
  8. Advanced Micro Devices  
      
  8. Spansion   
 
  9. Advanced Micro Devices  
      
  9. National Semiconductor  
      
  9. Samsung   
 
  10. Samsung  
      
  10. Amkor Technologies  
      
  10.National Semiconductor   

*  
  Accounted for more than 10% of total fiscal year net sales.        We believe
that developing long-term relationships with our customers is critical to our success. By establishing these relationships with semiconductor manufacturers, semiconductor subcontract assemblers, and vertically integrated manufacturers of electronic
systems, we gain insight into our customers  future IC packaging strategies. This insight assists us in our efforts to develop material, equipment, and process solutions that address our customers  future assembly requirements.   
   International Operations       We sell our products to semiconductor
manufacturers, semiconductor subcontract assemblers, and vertically integrated manufacturers of electronic systems, which are primarily located in or have operations in the Asia/Pacific region. Approximately 93% of our fiscal 2006 net sales and 95%
of our fiscal 2005 and 2004 net sales were for delivery to customer locations outside of the United States. The majority of these foreign sales were destined for customer locations in the Asia/Pacific region, including Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore,
Korea, Japan, China and the Philippines. We expect sales outside of the United States to continue to represent a majority of our future revenues.       Sales
and Customer Support       We believe that providing comprehensive worldwide sales, service, training, and support are important competitive factors in the
semiconductor equipment industry, and we manage these functions through our global customer operations group. We rely on a combination of a direct sales force, manufacturers  representatives and distributors for the sale of our various product
lines. In order to support our customers whose semiconductor assembly operations are located primarily outside of the United States, we have sales, service, and support personnel based in China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines,
Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, and Europe, and applications labs in Singapore, Japan, Israel, and Taiwan. We provide timely customer service and support by positioning our service representatives and spare parts near customer facilities, which
provides customers with the ability to place orders locally and to deal with service and support personnel who speak the customer s language and are familiar with local country practices.       Backlog       At September 30, 2006, we had a backlog of customer
orders totaling $56.0 million, compared to $59.0 million at July 1, 2006 and $91.5 million at September 30, 2005. Our backlog consists of customer orders which are scheduled for shipment within 12 months. Virtually all orders are subject
to cancellation, deferral or rescheduling by the customer with limited or no penalties. Because of the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellations and potential delays in product shipments, our backlog as of any particular
date may not be indicative of revenues for any succeeding quarterly period.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

    Manufacturing       We
believe excellence in manufacturing can create a competitive advantage, both through lower costs and superior responsiveness. In order to achieve these goals, we manage our manufacturing operations through a single organization and are trending to
fewer, larger factories to take advantage of economies of scale and the cost savings available in low labor cost areas.       Equipment.
 Our equipment manufacturing activities consist primarily of integrating outsourced parts and subassemblies, and testing the finished product to customer specifications. During fiscal 2006, most of our equipment manufacturing took place in
Singapore, with a small number of machines built in Pennsylvania. We believe the outsourcing model enables us to minimize our fixed costs and capital expenditures and focus on product differentiation through technology innovations in system design
and manufacturing quality control. Just-in-time inventory management has reduced our manufacturing cycle times and reduced our on-hand inventory requirements. We have received ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications for our equipment manufacturing
facility in Singapore.       Packaging Materials.  We manufacture expendable tools at facilities in Yokneam, Israel and Suzhou, China, and
bonding wire at facilities in Singapore and Thalwil, Switzerland. We manufacture blades for wafer sawing in Suzhou, China. Our bonding wire facility in Switzerland has received ISO 9001 certification; our bonding wire facility in Singapore has
received QS9000 and ISO 14001 certifications; our bonding tools facility in Yokneam, Israel has received ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications; and our bonding tools and dicing blades facility in Suzhou, China has received ISO 9001 and ISO 14001
certifications.       Research and Product Development       Many
of our customers generate technology roadmaps describing the future manufacturing capability requirements needed to support their product development plans. Our research and product development activities are organized so that our products
anticipate our customers  requirements. This can happen either through continuous improvement of our existing products, including upgrades for products already installed in customers  facilities, or through the creation of next-generation
products. Examples of our continuous improvement strategy include the Maxum Elite and Maxum Ultra wire bonders   both improvements of the Maxum product line and our DuraCap line of bonding tools. Major next-generation development programs are
underway for our wire bonders and die bonders. Whether we proceed via continuous improvement, or via next-generation technology development, our goal is technology leadership in each of our major product lines.      Our net expenditures for research and development totaled approximately $37.7 million, $28.5 million, and $28.4 million during our fiscal years ended September 30,
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.       Competition       The
market for semiconductor equipment and packaging materials products is intensely competitive. Significant competitive factors in the semiconductor equipment market include price, as well as speed/throughput, production yield, process control, and
customer support, each of which contribute to lower the overall cost per package being manufactured. Our major equipment competitors include:       

Wire bonders: ASM Pacific Technology and Shinkawa         

Epoxy Die Bonders: Renesas, ESEC, ASM Pacific Technology and Shinkawa           
   7   

Table of Contents  

   Significant competitive factors in the semiconductor packaging materials industry include performance, price, delivery,
product life, and quality. Our significant packaging materials  competitors include:       

Bonding tools: Gaiser Tool Co., Small Precision Tools, Inc. and PECO         

Saw blades: Disco Corporation         

Bonding wire: Tanaka Electronic Industries, Sumitomo Metal Mining, Heraeus, and Nippon Metal.        In each of the markets we serve, we face competition and the threat of competition from established competitors and potential new entrants, some of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing, and
marketing resources than we have. Some of our competitors are Asian and European companies that have had and may continue to have an advantage over us in supplying products to local customers because many of these customers appear to prefer to
purchase from local suppliers, without regard to other considerations.       Intellectual Property       Where circumstances warrant, we seek to obtain patents on inventions governing new products and processes developed as part of our ongoing research, engineering, and
manufacturing activities. We currently hold a number of United States patents, some of which have foreign counterparts. We believe that the duration of our patents generally exceeds the life cycles of the technologies disclosed and claimed in the
patents. We believe that our portfolio of patents will have more value in the future but that our success will depend primarily on our engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and service skills.      In addition, we believe that much of our important technology resides in our trade secrets and proprietary software. As long as we rely on trade secrets and unpatented
knowledge, including software, to maintain our competitive position, we cannot assure you that competitors may not independently develop similar technologies and possibly obtain patents containing claims applicable to our products and processes. Our
ability to defend ourselves against these claims may be limited. In addition, although we execute non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain of our employees, customers, consultants, selected vendors and others, there is no assurance
that such secrecy agreements will not be breached, or that they can be enforced. Additional disclosures regarding these risks, as well as other risk factors facing the Company are included in Item 7  Management s Discussion and
Analysis , included herein.       Environmental Matters       We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, use, emission, discharge, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and the health and safety
of our employees. In addition, we are subject to environmental laws which may require investigation and cleanup of any contamination at facilities we own or operate or at third party waste disposal sites we use or have used. These laws could impose
liability upon us even if we did not know of, or were not responsible for, the contamination.      We have in the past and will in the future incur costs to
comply with environmental laws. We are not, however, currently aware of any costs or liabilities relating to environmental matters, including any claims or actions under environmental laws or obligations to perform any cleanups at any of our
facilities or any third party waste disposal sites, that we expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. It is possible, however, that material environmental costs or liabilities may arise in
the future.       Employees       At September 30, 2006, we
had 2,454 permanent employees and 197 temporary and contract workers worldwide. The only employees represented by a labor union are the bonding wire employees in Singapore. Generally, we believe our employee relations to be good. Competition in the
recruiting of personnel in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industry is intense, particularly with respect to engineering. We believe that our future         
   8   

Table of Contents  

   success will depend in part on our continued ability to hire and retain qualified management, marketing and technical
employees.       Executive Officers of the Company       The
following table sets forth certain information regarding the executive officers of the Company as of September 30, 2006. Our executive officers are appointed by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.       

Name    
      
   Age   
      
   First Became an Officer (calendar year)   
      
     Position     
 
  C. Scott Kulicke  
      
  57  
      
  1976  
      
  Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer   
 
  Charles Salmons  
      
  51  
      
  1992  
      
  Senior Vice President, Acquisition Integration   
 
  Jagdish (Jack) G. Belani  
      
  53  
      
  1999  
      
  Senior Vice President of Package Materials and Corporate Marketing   
 
  Maurice E. Carson  
      
  49  
      
  2003  
      
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
 
  Bruce Griffing  
      
  56  
      
  2004  
      
  Vice President, Engineering   
 
  Christian Rheault  
      
  41  
      
  2005  
      
  Vice President, Equipment Segment   
     C. Scott Kulicke  has been the Chief Executive Officer of our Company since 1979 and Chairman of the Board
of Directors since 1984. His present term as a director expires in 2007. He first became an officer of the Company in 1976 and has held a number of executive positions with us since that time.       Charles Salmons  holds the position of Senior Vice President, Acquisition Integration. He was appointed to this position in September 2006. He held the position of
Senior Vice President, Wafer Test from November 2004. Mr. Salmons was Senior Vice President, Product Development from September 2002 to November 2004 and until 2006 Senior Vice President Operations from 1999 to 2004. From 1998 to 1999, he was
General Manager, Wire Bonder operations and from 1994 to 1998 he was Vice President of Operations. Mr. Salmons has been an officer of the Company since 1992.       Jagdish (Jack) G. Belani  holds the position of Senior Vice President of Package Materials and Corporate Marketing. He was appointed to this position in November 2005. Before this, he was Vice President of Wire Bonding and Corporate
Marketing. Mr. Belani has also held the following positions: Vice President of all the Business Units and Marketing, President of the Wire Bonding Division and President of XLAM, which was our high density substrate group. He became an officer
of the Company upon joining us in April 1999. Before joining us, he served for more than three years at Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, where he was Vice President of Assembly and Packaging. Before Cypress, he was with National Semiconductor
Corporation for approximately 18 years in a variety of technical and managerial positions and one year with Advanced Micro Devices as a Wafer Fabrication Process Development Engineer. Mr. Belani has a B.Tech in Chemical Engineering from IIT,
Madras; a M.S. in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering from IIT, Chicago and a J.D. from the Univ. Santa Clara.       Maurice E. Carson  holds the
position of Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. He was appointed to this position when he joined us in September 2003. From 1996 until he joined us in 2003, Mr. Carson served in various finance positions culminating as the Vice President,
Finance and Corporate Controller for Cypress Semiconductor Corporation. Before Cypress he was with Ephigraphx as the Chief Operating Officer.       Bruce
Griffing  holds the position of Vice President, Engineering. He was appointed to this position when he joined us in September 2004. From 2001 to 2003 Dr. Griffing served as Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of DuPont Photomask, a
company that provides microimaging solutions. Before DuPont Photomask, Dr. Griffing worked for General Electric from 1979 to 2001, serving as a Laboratory Manager from 1986 to 2001. Dr. Griffing received his Ph.D in Physics from Purdue
University in 1979.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

    Christian Rheault  holds the position of Vice President, Equipment Segment. He was appointed to this position in
2006. Mr. Rheault manages the overall marketing and business operations for the Company s equipment line, which includes all ball bonders and wafer bumping products, microelectronics products, die bonders, manual wire bonders as well as
equipment rebuilds and spares. Previously, he served as Vice President and General Manager of our Ball Bonder Business Unit. An employee since 1998, Mr. Rheault has served in other positions of increasing responsibility including Director of
Strategic Marketing and Vice President/General Manager of the Company s Microelectronics Business Unit. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Rheault held engineering and management positions at IBM Canada. He holds an Electrical Engineering
degree at Canada s Laval University and a DSA (Business Administration Diploma) at Sherbrooke University in Canada.       
  Item 1A. RISK FACTORS        Risks Relating to Our Business         The semiconductor industry is volatile with sharp periodic downturns and slowdowns        Our operating results are
significantly affected by the capital expenditures of large semiconductor manufacturers and their subcontract assemblers and vertically integrated manufacturers of electronic systems. Expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and their subcontract
assemblers and vertically integrated manufacturers of electronic systems depend on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products that use semiconductors, including personal computers, telecommunications equipment,
consumer electronics, and automotive goods. Significant downturns in the market for semiconductor devices or in general economic conditions reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and
operating results.      Historically, the semiconductor industry has been volatile, with periods of rapid growth followed by industry-wide retrenchment. These
periodic downturns and slowdowns have adversely affected our business, financial condition and operating results. They have been characterized by, among other things, diminished product demand, excess production capacity, and accelerated erosion of
selling prices. These downturns historically have severely and negatively affected the industry s demand for capital equipment, including the assembly equipment and the packaging materials that we sell. There can be no assurances regarding
levels of demand for our products, and in any case, we believe the historical volatility   both upward and downward   will persist.        We may
experience increasing price pressure        Our historical business strategy for many of our products has focused on product performance and customer
service rather than on price. The length and severity of the fiscal 2001   fiscal 2003 economic downturn increased cost pressure on our customers and we have observed increasing price sensitivity on their part. In response, we are actively
seeking to reduce our cost structure by moving operations to lower cost areas and by reducing other operating costs. If we are unable to realize prices that allow us to continue to compete on the basis of performance and service, our financial
condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected.        Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly and may continue
to do so in the future        In the past, our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly. We expect that they will continue to fluctuate.
Although these fluctuations are partly due to the volatile nature of the semiconductor industry, they also reflect other factors, many of which are outside of our control.      Some of the factors that may cause our revenues and/or operating margins to fluctuate significantly from period to period are:       

market downturns;         

the mix of products that we sell because, for example:           
   10   

Table of Contents  

some lines of equipment within our business segments are more profitable than others; and         

some sales arrangements have higher margins than others;         

the volume and timing of orders for our products and any order postponements;         

virtually all of our orders are subject to cancellation, deferral or rescheduling by the customer without prior notice and with limited or no penalties;         

competitive pricing pressures may force us to reduce prices to retain the business;         

higher than anticipated costs of development or production of new equipment models;         

the availability and cost of the components for our products;         

unanticipated delays in the development and manufacture of our new products and upgraded versions of our products and market acceptance of these products when introduced;

customers  delay in purchasing our products due to anticipation that we or our competitors may introduce new or upgraded products; and         

our competitors  introduction of new products.        Many of our
expenses, such as research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses, and interest expense, do not vary directly with our net sales. Our research and development efforts include long-term projects lasting a year or more, which
require significant investments. In order to realize the benefits of these projects, we believe that we must continue to fund them during periods when our net sales have declined. As a result, a decline in our net sales would adversely affect our
operating results. In addition, if we were to incur additional expenses in a quarter in which we did not experience comparable increased net sales, our operating results would decline. In a downturn, we may have excess inventory, which is required
to be written off. Some of the other factors that may cause our expenses to fluctuate from period-to-period include:       

the timing and extent of our research and development efforts;         

severance, resizing, and other costs of relocating facilities;         

inventory write-offs due to obsolescence; and         

inflationary increases in the cost of labor or materials.        Because our
revenues and operating results are volatile and difficult to predict, we believe that consecutive period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance.        We may not be able to rapidly develop, manufacture and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products required to maintain or expand our business
       We believe that our continued success depends on our ability to continuously develop and manufacture new products and product enhancements on a
timely and cost-effective basis. We must introduce these products and product enhancements into the market in a timely manner in response to customers  demands for higher performance assembly equipment, leading-edge materials customized to
address rapid technological advances in integrated circuits, and capital equipment designs. Our competitors may develop new products or enhancements to their products that offer         
   11   

Table of Contents  

   performance, features and lower prices that may render our products less competitive. The development and
commercialization of new products requires significant capital expenditures over an extended period of time, and some products that we seek to develop may never become profitable. In addition, we may not be able to develop and introduce products
incorporating new technologies in a timely manner that will satisfy our customers  future needs or achieve market acceptance.        Substantially all
of our sales and manufacturing operations are located outside of the United States, and we rely on independent foreign distribution channels for certain product lines; all of which subject us to risks, including risks from changes in trade
regulations, currency fluctuations, political instability and war        Approximately 93% of our net sales for fiscal 2006 and 95% of our net sales for
fiscal 2005 and 2004 were to customers located outside of the United States, in particular to customers located in the Asia/Pacific region. Our future performance will depend on our ability to continue to compete in foreign markets, particularly in
the Asia/Pacific region. These economies have been highly volatile, resulting in significant fluctuation in local currencies, and political and economic instability. These conditions may continue or worsen, which may materially and adversely affect
our business, financial condition and operating results.      We also rely on non-United States suppliers for materials and components used in our products,
and nearly all of our manufacturing operations are located in countries other than the United States. We manufacture our automatic ball bonders and bonding wire in Singapore, we manufacture capillaries in Israel and China, die bonders in Switzerland
and China, bonding wire in Switzerland, and we have sales, service and support personnel in China, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and Europe. We also rely on independent foreign distribution channels for certain of our
product lines. As a result, a major portion of our business is subject to the risks associated with international, and particularly Asia/Pacific, commerce, such as:       

risks of war and civil disturbances or other events that may limit or disrupt manufacturing and markets;         

seizure of our foreign assets, including cash;         

longer payment cycles in foreign markets;         

international exchange restrictions;         

restrictions on the repatriation of our assets, including cash;         

significant foreign and United States taxes on repatriated cash;         

the difficulties of staffing and managing dispersed international operations;         

possible disagreements with tax authorities regarding transfer pricing regulations;         

episodic events outside our control such as, for example, an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome or influenza;         

tariff and currency fluctuations;         

changing political conditions;         

labor conditions and costs;         

foreign governments  monetary policies and regulatory requirements;           
   12   

Table of Contents  

less protective foreign intellectual property laws; and         

legal systems which are less developed and which may be less predictable than those in the United States.        Because most of our foreign sales are denominated in United States dollars, an increase in value of the United States dollar against foreign currencies, particularly the
Japanese yen, will make our products more expensive than those offered by some of our foreign competitors. Our ability to compete overseas in the future may be materially and adversely affected by a strengthening of the United States dollar against
foreign currencies.      Our international operations also depend upon favorable trade relations between the United States and those foreign countries in which
our customers, subcontractors, and materials suppliers have operations. A protectionist trade environment in either the United States or those foreign countries in which we do business, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export
compliance or other trade policies, may materially and adversely affect our ability to sell our products in foreign markets.        We are exposed to
fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows        Because a significant portion of our
business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Historically, our primary exposures have
related to (net) receivables denominated in currencies other than a foreign subsidiaries  functional currency, and remeasurement of our foreign subsidiaries  net monetary assets from the subsidiaries  local currency into the
subsidiaries  functional currency (the U.S. dollar). In general, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could require certain of our foreign subsidiaries to record translation and remeasurement gains. Conversely, a decrease in the value of
the U.S. dollar could require certain of our foreign subsidiaries to record losses on translation and remeasurement. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United
States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials. An increase in the value of China s Yuan could increase our material, labor, and other operating
expenses in China. Our board has granted management with limited authority to enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and other instruments designed to minimize the short term impact currency fluctuations have on our business. We have entered
into foreign exchange forward contracts and expect to enter into additional foreign exchange forward contracts and other instruments in the future. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful and may result in a material adverse
impact on our financial results and cash flows.        We may not be able to consolidate manufacturing facilities without incurring unanticipated costs and
disruptions to our business        As part of our ongoing efforts to further reduce our cost structure, we seek to consolidate our manufacturing
facilities. We may incur significant and unexpected costs, delays and disruptions to our business during this consolidation process. Because of unanticipated events, including the actions of governments, suppliers, employees or customers, we may not
realize the synergies, cost reductions and other benefits of any consolidation to the extent or within the timeframe that we currently expect.        Our
business depends on attracting and retaining management, marketing and technical employees        Our future success depends on our ability to hire and
retain qualified management, marketing and technical employees. In particular, we periodically experience shortages of technical personnel. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain the managerial, marketing and technical personnel we
require, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.        Difficulties in forecasting demand for
our product lines may lead to periodic inventory shortages or excesses        We typically operate our business with limited visibility of future demand.
As a result, we sometimes experience inventory shortages or excesses. We generally order supplies and otherwise plan our production based on internal         
   13   

Table of Contents  

   forecasts of demand. We have in the past, and may again in the future, fail to forecast accurately demand for our
products, in terms of both volume and configuration for either our current or next-generation wire bonders. This has led to and may in the future lead to delays in product shipments or, alternatively, an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. If
we fail to forecast accurately demand for our products, including assembly equipment and packaging materials, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected.        Advanced packaging technologies other than wire bonding may render some of our products obsolete        Advanced packaging technologies have emerged that may improve device performance or reduce the size of an integrated circuit package, as compared to traditional die and
wire bonding. These technologies include flip chip and chip scale packaging. Some of these advanced technologies eliminate the need for wires to establish the electrical connection between a die and its package. The semiconductor industry may, in
the future, shift a significant part of its volume into advanced packaging technologies, such as those discussed above, which do not employ our products. If a significant shift to advanced packaging technologies were to occur, demand for our
equipment and related packaging materials may be materially and adversely affected.        Because a small number of customers account for most of our
sales, our revenues could decline if we lose a significant customer        The semiconductor manufacturing industry is highly concentrated, with a
relatively small number of large semiconductor manufacturers and their subcontract assemblers and vertically integrated manufacturers of electronic systems purchasing a substantial portion of our semiconductor assembly equipment and packaging
materials. Sales to a relatively small number of customers account for a significant percentage of our net sales. During fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, sales to Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, our largest customer accounted for 17%, 15% and 19%,
respectively, of our net sales.      We expect that sales of our products to a small number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our
net sales for the foreseeable future. Thus, our business success depends on our ability to maintain strong relationships with our important customers. Any one of a number of factors could adversely affect these relationships. If, for example, during
periods of escalating demand for our equipment, we were unable to add inventory and production capacity quickly enough to meet the needs of our customers, they may turn to other suppliers making it more difficult for us to retain their business.
Similarly, if we are unable for any other reason to meet production or delivery schedules, particularly during a period of escalating demand, our relationships with our key customers could be adversely affected. If we lose orders from a significant
customer, or if a significant customer reduces its orders substantially, these losses or reductions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.        We depend on a small number of suppliers for raw materials, components and subassemblies. If our suppliers do not deliver their products to us, we would be unable
to deliver our products to our customers        Our products are complex and require raw materials, components and subassemblies having a high degree of
reliability, accuracy and performance. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture many of these components and subassemblies and we rely on sole source suppliers for some important components and raw materials, including gold. As a result, we are
exposed to a number of significant risks, including:       

lack of control over the manufacturing process for components and subassemblies;         

Changes in our manufacturing processes, in response to changes in the market, which may delay our shipments;         

our inadvertent use of defective or contaminated raw materials;         

the relatively small operations and limited manufacturing resources of some of our suppliers, which may limit their ability to manufacture and sell subassemblies, components or
parts in the volumes we require and at acceptable quality levels and prices;           
   14   

Table of Contents  

reliability or quality problems with certain key subassemblies provided by single source suppliers as to which we may not have any short term alternative;     

shortages caused by disruptions at our suppliers and subcontractors for a variety of reasons, including work stoppage or fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters;

delays in the delivery of raw materials or subassemblies, which, in turn, may delay our shipments; and         

the loss of suppliers as a result of consolidation of suppliers in the industry.        If we are unable to deliver products to our customers on time for these or any other reasons; if we are unable to meet customer expectations as to cycle time; or if we do not maintain acceptable product quality or reliability, our business,
financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected.        Diversification into multiple businesses increases demands on
our management and systems        We recently acquired Alphasem, a manufacturer of die bonders, and may from time to time in the future seek to expand
through further acquisition. Significant acquisitions increase demands on management, financial resources and information and internal control systems. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses with
our existing businesses and to successfully implement, improve and expand our systems, procedures and controls. If we fail to integrate businesses successfully or to develop the necessary internal procedures to manage diversified businesses, our
business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected.        We may be unable to continue to compete successfully
in the highly competitive semiconductor equipment and packaging materials industries        The semiconductor equipment and packaging materials industries
are very competitive. In the semiconductor equipment, significant competitive factors include performance, quality, customer support and price. In the semiconductor packaging materials industry, competitive factors include price, delivery and
quality.      In each of our markets, we face competition and the threat of competition from established competitors and potential new entrants. In addition,
established competitors may combine to form larger, better capitalized companies. Some of our competitors have or may have significantly greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. Some of these competitors
are Asian and European companies that have had and may continue to have an advantage over us in supplying products to local customers who appear to prefer to purchase from local suppliers, without regard to other considerations.      We expect our competitors to improve their current products  performance, and to introduce new products and materials with improved price and performance
characteristics. Our competitors may independently develop technology that is similar to or better than ours. New product and materials introductions by our competitors or by new market entrants could hurt our sales. If a particular semiconductor
manufacturer or subcontract assembler selects a competitor s product or materials for a particular assembly operation, we may not be able to sell products or materials to that manufacturer or assembler for a significant period of time because
manufacturers and assemblers sometimes develop lasting relations with suppliers, and assembly equipment in our industry often goes years without requiring replacement. In addition, we may have to lower our prices in response to price cuts by our
competitors, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete in these or other areas in the future. If we cannot compete
successfully, we could be forced to reduce prices, and could lose customers and market share and experience reduced margins and profitability.        Our
success depends in part on our intellectual property, which we may be unable to protect        Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology.
To protect this technology, we rely principally on         
   15   

Table of Contents  

   contractual restrictions (such as nondisclosure and confidentiality provisions) in our agreements with employees,
subcontractors, vendors, consultants and customers and on the common law of trade secrets and proprietary  know-how.  We also rely, in some cases, on patent and copyright protection. We may not be successful in protecting our technology
for a number of reasons, including the following:       

employees, subcontractors, vendors, consultants and customers may violate their contractual agreements, and the cost of enforcing those agreements may be prohibitive, or those
agreements may be unenforceable or more limited than we anticipate;         

foreign intellectual property laws may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights;         

our patent and copyright claims may not be sufficiently broad to effectively protect our technology; our patents or copyrights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; or we
may otherwise be unable to obtain adequate protection for our technology.        In addition, our partners and alliances may also have rights to
technology that we develop. We may incur significant expense to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may be weakened.        Third parties may claim we are infringing on their intellectual property, which could cause us to incur significant litigation costs or other expenses, or prevent
us from selling some of our products        The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, with frequent introductions of new
products and technologies. Industry participants often develop products and features similar to those introduced by others, creating a risk that their products and processes may give rise to claims that they infringe on the intellectual property of
others. We may unknowingly infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and incur significant liability for that infringement. If we are found to have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, we could be enjoined from
continuing to manufacture, market or use the affected product, or be required to obtain a license to continue manufacturing or using the affected product. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly,
changing or re-engineering our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly, impractical or time consuming.      Occasionally,
third parties assert that we are, or may be, infringing on or misappropriating their intellectual property rights. In these cases, we will defend against claims or negotiate licenses where we consider these actions appropriate. Intellectual property
cases are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. If we become involved in this type of litigation, it could consume significant resources and divert our attention from our business.        We may be materially and adversely affected by environmental and safety laws and regulations        We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, use, emission, discharge, transportation and disposal of hazardous material,
investigation and remediation of contaminated sites and the health and safety of our employees. Increasingly, public attention has focused on the environmental impact of manufacturing operations and the risk to neighbors of chemical releases from
such operations.      Proper waste disposal plays an important role in the operation of our manufacturing plants. In many of our facilities we maintain
wastewater treatment systems that remove metals and other contaminants from process wastewater. These facilities operate under permits that must be renewed periodically. A violation of those permits may lead to revocation of the permits, fines,
penalties or the incurrence of capital or other costs to comply with the permits, including potential shutdown of operations.      In the future, existing or
new land use and environmental regulations may: (1) impose upon us the need for additional capital equipment or other process requirements, (2) restrict our ability to expand our operations, (3) subject us to liability for, among
other matters, remediation, and/or (4) cause us to curtail our operations. We cannot         
   16   

Table of Contents  

   assure you that any costs or liabilities associated with complying with these environmental laws will not materially and
adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.        Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and
under Pennsylvania law may discourage other companies from attempting to acquire us        Some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws as
well as Pennsylvania law may discourage some transactions where we would otherwise experience a fundamental change. For example, our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that:       

Classify our board of directors into four classes, with one class being elected each year;         

permit our board to issue  blank check  preferred stock without stockholder approval; and         

Prohibit us from engaging in some types of business combinations with a holder of 20% or more of our voting securities without super-majority board or stockholder approval.
       Further, under the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law, because our bylaws provide for a classified board of directors, stockholders may
remove directors only for cause. These provisions and some other provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law could delay, defer or prevent us from experiencing a fundamental change and may adversely affect our common stockholders 
voting and other rights.        Terrorist attacks, or other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which we operate and our profitability
       Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the
United States or United States businesses. Terrorist attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Our primary facilities include administrative, sales and R D facilities in the
United States and manufacturing facilities in the United States, Singapore, Switzerland, China and Israel. Additional terrorist attacks may disrupt the global insurance and reinsurance industries with the result that we may not be able to obtain
insurance at historical terms and levels for all of our facilities. Furthermore, additional attacks may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more expensive and ultimately affect the sales of our products
in the United States and overseas. Additional attacks or any broader conflict, could negatively impact on our domestic and international sales, our supply chain, our production capability and our ability to deliver products to our customers.
Political and economic instability in some regions of the world could negatively impact our business. The consequences of terrorist attacks or armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse
effect on our business.        We may be unable to generate enough cash to repay our debt        Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and other activities will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future.
If our convertible debt is not converted to our common shares, we will be required to make annual cash interest payments of $1.3 million in each of fiscal years 2007 and 2008, $0.8 million in fiscal 2009 and $0.5 million in fiscal 2010 on our
aggregate $195.0 million of convertible subordinated debt. Principal payments of $130.0 million and $65.0 million on the convertible subordinated debt are due in fiscal 2009 and 2010, respectively. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness is
affected by the volatile nature of our business, and general economic, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our indebtedness poses risks to our business, including that:       

insufficient cash flow from operations to repay our outstanding indebtedness when it becomes due may force us to sell assets, or seek additional capital, which we may be unable to
do at all or on terms favorable to us; and         

our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns.        We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash in an amount sufficient to enable us to service interest, principal and other payments on our debt, including the notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs.
We are not restricted under the         
   17   

Table of Contents  

   agreements governing our existing indebtedness from incurring additional debt in the future. If new debt is added to our
current levels, our leverage and our debt service obligations would increase and the related risks described above could intensify.        We have the
ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock        The issuance of additional
equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities will result in dilution of existing stockholders  equity interests in us. Our board of directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, shares of
preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of
redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. In addition, we are authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to an aggregate of 200 million shares of
common stock, of which approximately 57.2 million shares were outstanding as of September 30, 2006. We are also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, securities convertible into either shares of common stock or preferred
stock.       Weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures could result in material misstatements in our financial statements       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal controls over financial reporting are
processes designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A material weakness is a control
deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected.      Management determined that a material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of September 30, 2006. See
Item 9A   Controls and Procedures for a description of this material weakness.      We have begun to implement measures designed to
remediate the material weakness in our internal controls by September 30, 2007 (See Item 9A   Controls and Procedures). We cannot assure you as to when the remediation measures will be fully implemented, nor can we assure
you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified by our management or independent accountants in the future. In addition, even after the remediation measures are fully implemented, our internal controls may not prevent all potential
errors or fraud, because any control system, no matter how well designed and implemented, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system will be achieved.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

Item 2. PROPERTIES.       Our major operating facilities are described in the table below:       

Facility   
     
     Approximate       Size    
     
   Function   
     
     Products       Manufactured    
     
     Lease       Expiration       Date (4)     
 
  Fort Washington,     Pennsylvania  
     
  88,000 sq. ft. (1)  
     
  Corp. headquarters,   manufacturing, technology   center, sales and
service  
     
  Wedge, large area   bonders  
     
  April 2028   

Suzhou, China  
     
  136,379 sq. ft. (1)  
     
  Manufacturing  
     
  Capillaries, dicing   blades  
     
  October 2022   

Singapore  
     
  77,500 sq.ft. (1)  
     
  Manufacturing, technology   center, assembly systems  
     
  Wire bonders  
     
  August 2008   

Singapore  
     
  38,400 sq. ft. (1)  
     
  Manufacturing, technology   center, assembly systems  
     
  Bonding wire  
     
  May 2009   

Yokneam, Israel  
     
  53,800 sq .ft. (2)  
     
  Manufacturing, technology   center  
     
  Capillaries, wedges, die   collets  
     
  N/A   

Thalwil, Switzerland  
     
  15,100 sq .ft. (1)  
     
  Manufacturing  
     
  Bonding wire  
     
  (3)   

Berg, Switzerland  
     
  69,940 sq.ft. (2)  
     
  Manufacturing, technology   center  
     
  Die bonders  
     
  N/A   

(3)  
  Cancelable semi-annually upon six months notice.     

(4)  
  Includes lease extension periods at the Company s option.        We also
rent space for sales and service offices in: San Jose, California; Chandler, Arizona; China; Germany; Japan; Korea; Malaysia; the Philippines; Taiwan; and Thailand. We believe that our facilities generally are in good condition.       
  Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.       From time to time, we are a plaintiff or defendant in various cases arising out of our
business. We cannot assure you of the results of any pending or future litigation, but we do not believe that resolution of these matters will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.       
  Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.       None.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

PART II        
  Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.       Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol  KLIC.  The following table lists the high and low per share sale prices for our common stock for the periods indicated:       
    The payment of dividends on our common stock is within the discretion of our board of directors. We have not
historically paid any cash dividends on our common stock, including during the past two fiscal years, and we do not expect to declare cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. We intend to retain earnings to finance the growth of our
business and/or pay down debt.        For the purposes of calculating the aggregate market value of the shares of our common stock held by nonaffiliates,
as shown on the cover page of this report, we have assumed that all of our outstanding shares were held by nonaffiliates except for the shares held by our directors and executive officers. However, this does not necessarily mean that all directors
and executive officers of the Company are, in fact, affiliates of the Company, or that there are not other persons who may be deemed to be affiliates of the Company. Further information concerning the beneficial ownership of our executive officers,
directors and principal shareholders will be included in our proxy statement relating to our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC on or about January 3, 2007 .       On December 1, 2006, there were 535 holders of record of the shares of outstanding common stock.       Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities:       During the last fiscal year, except as otherwise disclosed on our current
reports on Form 8-K, we have not sold any of our securities without registration under the Securities Act, except as described below:      During the quarter
ended April 1, 2006, we issued and contributed 200,000 shares of our common stock with a fair value of approximately $1.8 million (based upon the market price at the time of contribution) to Reliance Trust Company, as Trustee of our defined
benefit pension plan, in a private placement under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. We issued and contributed the shares of our common stock to the trust to fund certain obligations to the pension plan.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

   On February 14, 2006, the Company purchased a portion of its outstanding 0.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes having
an aggregate principal amount of $52.2 million for consideration consisting of 2.5 million shares of common stock with an aggregate fair value of $29.5 million and $18.7 million in cash. On February 16, 2006, the Company purchased an
additional portion of its outstanding 0.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes having an aggregate principal amount of $22.8 million for consideration consisting of 1.1 million shares of common stock with an aggregate fair value of $13.2 million and
$8.0 million in cash. In accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 26,  Early Extinguishment of Debt , the Company recorded a net gain on the transactions of $4.0 million, net of deferred financing cost write-offs of $1.3
million and transaction costs of $0.4 million.       
  Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.       The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with our
consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this report or in annual reports filed previously by us in respect of the fiscal years identified in the column headings of the tables below.

21   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  During fiscal 2006, we recorded the following charges in continuing operations: $3.5 million in cost of sales and $0.8 million in operating expenses for the cumulative adjustment to
correct immaterial errors in the consolidated financial statements; $0.6 million in cost of sales and $4.1 million in operating expenses for FAS 123R stock compensation expense; $9.0 million in operating expenses for incentive compensation and a
gain on the sale of assets of $4.5 million in operating expenses.        During fiscal 2005, we recorded the following charges as
operating expenses in continuing operations: severance charges of $0.9 million; China start-up costs of $1.2 million; and inventory write-downs of $1.0 million. We also recorded a gain on the sale of assets of $1.7 million within fiscal 2005
operating expenses.      During fiscal 2004, we recorded the following charges as operating expenses in continuing operations: severance charges
of $1.9 million; China start-up costs of $0.1 million; inventory write-downs of $0.4 million; and a reversal of prior year resizing charges of $0.1 million. We also recorded a gain on the sale of assets of $0.9 million within fiscal 2004 operating
expenses.      During fiscal 2003, we recorded the following charges as operating expenses in continuing operations: loss on sale of product
lines of $5.3 million and asset impairment of $0.5 million which resulted from the write-down of assets that were sold and assets that became obsolete, $3.1 million of severance associated with workforce reductions; and charges for inventory
write-downs of $1.7 million (to costs of sales).      During fiscal 2002, we recorded the following charges as operating expenses: goodwill
impairment of $2.3 million associated with our saw blade business unit; asset impairment of $30.3 million primarily due to the cancellation of a company-wide integrated information system, the closure of our high density interconnect substrate
business and the write-off of development and license costs of certain engineering and manufacturing software; $14.1 million of resizing charges comprised primarily of severance and contractual commitments associated with reductions in workforce in
our continuing businesses. In fiscal 2002, we also recorded charges for inventory write-downs of $9.2 million (to costs of sales).         
   22   

Table of Contents  

(2)  
  In fiscal 2006, we reversed $38.2 million of valuation allowance associated with our U.S. net operating loss carryforward deferred tax asset and provided $21.5 million for
withholding tax liability associated with future repatriation of earnings. In fiscal 2005, we recorded $15.0 million of valuation allowance associated with our U.S. net operating loss carryforward deferred tax asset. In fiscal 2004, we reversed
$11.2 million of valuation allowance associated with our U.S. net operating loss carryforward deferred tax asset. In fiscal 2003, we recorded a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset consisting primarily of U.S. net operating loss
carryforwards of $12.1 million. In fiscal 2002 we recorded a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset consisting primarily of U.S. net operating loss carryforwards of $65.3 million and a charge of $25.0 million to provide for tax expense
on repatriation of certain foreign earnings.         

(3)  
  Reflects the operations of the Company s former flip chip business unit and test division which were sold in February 2004 and March 2006, respectively.

(4)  
  For fiscal years 2002 and 2003, only the common shares outstanding have been used to calculate both the basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share because
the inclusion of potential common shares would be anti-dilutive due to the net losses from continuing operations reported in those years. The after-tax interest expense recognized in fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006 associated with our convertible
subordinated notes that was added back to net income in order to compute diluted net income per share was $5.2 million, $1.7 million and $1.4 million, respectively.         

(5)  
  Does not include letters of credit.         
       
   23   

Table of Contents  

Item 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.        In addition to
historical information, this filing contains statements relating to future events or our future results. These statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
 Securities Act ) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), and are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by statute. Such forward-looking statements include, but are
not limited to, statements that relate to our future revenue, product development, demand forecasts, competitiveness, operating expenses, cash flows, profitability, gross margins, and benefits expected as a result of (among other factors):

the projected growth rates in the overall semiconductor industry, the semiconductor assembly equipment market, and the market for semiconductor packaging materials;
and          

the projected continuing demand for wire bonder and die bonder equipment.          Generally, words such as  may,   will,   should,   could,   anticipate,   expect,   intend,   estimate,   plan, 
 continue,   goal  and  believe,  or the negative of or other variations on these and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this
filing. We do not undertake to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.        Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties and our future results could differ significantly from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These risks and
uncertainties include, without limitation, those described below and under the heading  Risk Factors  within this section and in our other reports and registration statements filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange
Commission ( SEC ). This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes in this report.        Introduction       We design, manufacture and market capital equipment and packaging materials as well as service, maintain, repair and upgrade
equipment, all used to assemble semiconductor devices. We are currently the world s leading supplier of semiconductor wire bonding assembly equipment, according to VLSI Research, Inc. Our business is currently divided into two product segments:

equipment; and         

packaging materials.        We believe we are the only major supplier to the
semiconductor assembly industry that provides customers with semiconductor die bonding and wire bonding equipment along with the complementary packaging materials that actually contact the surface of the customer s semiconductor devices. We
believe that the ability to control these assembly related products provides us with a significant competitive advantage and should allow us to develop system solutions to the new technology challenges inherent in assembling and packaging
next-generation semiconductor devices.      The semiconductor industry has been historically volatile, with periods of rapid growth followed by downturns.
Compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2006, revenues for the second, third and fourth fiscal quarters were lower, as industry wide demand for automatic ball bonders decreased. As we look ahead to the first fiscal quarter of 2007, we expect net
revenue to be in the $140 to $150 million range, including approximately $7 million in revenue from die bonders and excluding any impact of fluctuations in gold pricing. There can be no assurances regarding levels of demand for our products, and in
any case, we believe the historical volatility   both upward and downward   will persist.      We have continued to lower our cost structure by
consolidating operations, moving certain of our manufacturing capacity to China, moving a portion of our supply chain to lower cost suppliers and designing higher-performing, lower cost equipment. Cost reduction efforts have become, and will
continue to be, an important part of our normal         
   24   

Table of Contents  

   ongoing operations and we expect to continue to further drive down our cost structure below current levels, while not
diminishing our product quality. Our goal is to be both the technology leader and the lowest cost supplier in each of our major lines of business.      On
November 3, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Alphasem, a leading supplier of die bonder equipment, from Dover Technologies International, Inc., a subsidiary of Dover Corporation. The business acquired is a leading supplier of die bonders.
The consideration for the acquisition was approximately $27.1 million in cash, after a working capital adjustment and subject to further post closing adjustments. We will integrate Alphasem into our equipment segment.      Beginning in fiscal year 2006, to align our external reporting with management s internal reporting, we no longer include  Corporate and Other  as a
business segment. Costs previously presented separately for this segment, which primarily consisted of general corporate expenses, have been allocated to our two remaining business segments. The business segment information for fiscal 2004 and 2005
have been restated to reflect this change.       Discontinued Operations       During the three months ended April 1, 2006, we committed to a plan of disposal and sold our test business in two separate transactions as follows:       

On March 3, 2006, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets and certain of the liabilities of our wafer test business to SV Probe, PTE. Ltd. ( SV
Probe ) for initial proceeds of $10.0 million in cash plus the assumption of accounts payable and certain other liabilities, subject to a post-closing working capital adjustment that was settled in the three months ended July 1, 2006.
Certain accounts receivable were excluded from the assets sold.         

On March 31, 2006, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets and certain of the liabilities of our package test business to Antares conTech, Inc., an entity
formed by Investcorp Technology Ventures II, L.P. and its affiliates (collectively  Investcorp ) for initial proceeds of $17.0 million in cash plus the assumption of accounts payable and certain other liabilities, subject to a post-closing
working capital adjustment that was settled in the three months ended July 1, 2006.        We recorded a loss of $0.8 million on the disposal
of our test business. We sold the test business to allow management to strengthen its focus on our core businesses   semiconductor assembly equipment and materials   and explore growth opportunities in these markets.      As part of the terms of each sale noted above, the associated China-based assets were not transferred to the buyers on the above referenced closing dates, as neither
buyer had a legal entity in China that could accept the transfer of the China-based assets as of the closing date. The China-based assets associated with the sale to SV Probe were transferred to SV Probe in September 2006 and the China-based assets
associated with the sale to Antares conTech were transferred to Antares conTech in December 2006, without additional consideration. In addition, we provided manufacturing and other transition services (invoiced at cost) to SV Probe through
September 1, 2006 and provided these services to Antares conTech through November 2006.      In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ( SFAS ) No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  ( SFAS 144 ), the financial results of the test business have been presented as discontinued operations in our Consolidated
Financial Statements. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report for further discussion of the divestiture of our test business.      Unless otherwise indicated, amounts provided throughout this report relate to continuing operations only.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

    Products and Services       We offer a range of wire bonding and die bonding equipment (and related spare parts) and packaging materials. Set forth below is a table listing the percentage of our total net revenues from continuing operations for each business segment:
      
    Our equipment sales have been, and are expected to remain, highly volatile due to the semiconductor
industry s need for new capability and capacity. Packaging materials unit sales tend to be less volatile, following the trend of total semiconductor unit production, however, fluctuations in gold metal commodity prices can have a significant
impact on reported packaging materials net revenues.      See Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report for
financial results by business segment.        Equipment        We manufacture and market a line of wire bonders and die bonders. Our wire bonders are used to connect very fine wires, typically made of gold, aluminum or copper, between the bond pads of a semiconductor die and the leads on the integrated
circuit ( IC ) package to which the die has been attached. We believe that our wire bonders offer competitive advantages by providing customers with high productivity/throughput and superior package quality/process control. In particular,
our machines are capable of performing very fine pitch bonding as well as creating the sophisticated wire loop shapes that are needed in the assembly of advanced semiconductor packages. Our die bonders perform the task of removing a semiconductor
die from a previously cut/separated wafer and placing it onto a bed of dispensed epoxy, or tape, which will permanently attach the die to its package substrate. This step precedes the wire bonding process. We believe our die bonders have good
position in the market, serving a wide range of applications. Die bonders and wire bonders share many of the same sub-assemblies, software features, and components and we believe joining the engineering and manufacturing expertise of these two
products will yield superior equipment platforms. Our principal products are:       Ball Bonders . Automatic IC ball bonders represent a
large majority of our semiconductor equipment business. As part of our competitive strategy, we have been introducing new models of IC ball bonders every 15 to 24 months, with each new model designed to increase both productivity and process
capability compared to its predecessor. We extended the life of the successful Maxum product line introducing the Maxum Ultra to succeed the Maxum Plus and the Maxum Elite to succeed the Nutek. Each of these machines provides approximately a 10%
productivity improvement over its predecessor and offers various other performance improvements.       Specialty Wire Bonders . We also
produce other models of wire bonders, targeted at specific market niches, including: the Model 8098, a large area ball bonder designed for wire bonding hybrid, chip on board applications, and other large area applications; and the Model 8090, a
large area wedge bonder. We introduced a new model wafer stud bumper in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the AT Premier       . The AT Premier        is targeted for gold-to-gold interconnect in the flip chip market. With
industry-leading speed and technology, the machine lowers the cost of ownership for stud bumping,         
   26   

Table of Contents  

   enabling a wider range of applications than previously served. We also manufacture and market a line of
manual wire bonders.       IC Die Bonders.  In November 2006, we acquired the Alphasem die bonder product lines, consisting of the
SwissLine and EasyLine models. These products are used by many of the same customers and applications that our wire bonders serve today. We expect to utilize the same competitive strategy as our wire bonders by developing new models that will both
improve the productivity of the die bonders and increase the size of the market that the new models will serve.       Specialty Die
Bonders . A portion of the Alphasem product line is a series of specialty bonders that consist of several equipment models based on the die bonder platform. This equipment is used for various assembly processes that include die sorting, power
device assembly, MEMS assembly, and others.      We believe that our industry knowledge and technical experience have positioned us to deliver innovative,
customer-specific offerings that reduce the cost of owning our equipment over its useful life. In response to customer trends in outsourcing packaging requirements, we provide repair and maintenance services, a variety of equipment upgrades, machine
and component rebuild activities and expanded customer training through our customer operations group.        Packaging Materials        We manufacture and market a range of semiconductor packaging materials and expendable tools for the semiconductor assembly market, including gold, aluminum and copper
wire, capillaries, wedges, die collets, and saw blades, all of which are used in packaging and assembly processes. Our packaging materials are designed for use on both our own and our competitors  assembly equipment. A wire bonder uses a
capillary or wedge tool and bonding wire much like a sewing machine uses a needle and thread. Our principal products are:       Bonding
Wire . We manufacture gold, aluminum and copper wire used in the wire bonding process. This wire is bonded to the chip surface and package substrate by the wire bonder and becomes a permanent part of the customer s semiconductor package. We
produce wire to a wide range of specifications, which can satisfy most wire bonding applications across the spectrum of semiconductor packages.       Expendable Tools . Our expendable tools include a wide variety of capillaries, wedges, die collets and wafer saw blades. The capillaries and wedges attach the wire to the semiconductor chip, allow a precise amount of wire to be fed
out to form a permanent wire loop, then attach the wire to the package substrate, and finally cut the wire so that the bonding process can be repeated again. Die collets are used to pick up and place die into packages before the wire bonding process
begins. Our hub blades are used to cut silicon wafers into individual semiconductor die.       Accounting Policies and Estimates       We believe the following accounting policy is critical to the preparation of our financial statements:       Revenue Recognition.  Our revenue recognition policy is in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 104 ( SAB 104 ),  Revenue Recognition . We recognize revenue when
persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, the collectibility is reasonably assured, and we have satisfied equipment installation obligations and received
customer acceptance, or are otherwise released from our installation or customer acceptance obligations. In the event terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue based upon the expiration of the lapsing
acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first. Our standard terms are Ex Works (Kulicke   Soffa factory), with title transferring to our customer at our loading dock or upon embarkation. We do have a small percentage of
sales with other terms, and revenue is recognized in accordance with the terms of the related customer purchase order. Revenue related to services is generally recognized upon performance of the services requested by a         
   27   

Table of Contents  

   customer. Revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a term more than one month is recognized on a prorated
straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Revenue from royalty arrangements and license agreements is recognized in accordance with the contract terms, generally prorated over the life of the contract or based upon specific deliverables.
     Our business is subject to contingencies related to customer orders as follows:       

Right of Return:  A large portion of our revenue comes from the sale of machines that are used in the semiconductor assembly process. Other product sales relate to consumable
products, which are sold in high-volume quantities, and are generally maintained at low stock levels at our customer s facility. Customer returns have historically represented a very small percentage of customer sales on an annual basis. Our
policy is to provide an allowance for customer returns based upon our historical experience and management assumptions.         

Warranties:  Our products are generally shipped with a one-year warranty against manufacturer s defects and we generally do not offer extended warranties in the normal
course of our business. We recognize a liability for estimated warranty expense when revenue for the related product is recognized. The estimated liability for warranty is based upon historical experience and our estimates of future expenses.

Conditions of Acceptance:  Sales of our consumable products and bonding wire generally do not have customer acceptance terms. In certain cases, sales of our equipment products
do have customer acceptance clauses which generally require that the equipment perform in accordance with specifications during an on-site factory inspection by the customer, as well as when installed at the customer s facility. In such cases,
if the terms of acceptance are satisfied at our facility prior to shipment, the revenue for the equipment will be recognized upon shipment. If the terms of acceptance are satisfied at our customer s facility, the revenue for the equipment will
be not be recognized until acceptance, which typically consists of installation and testing, is received from the customer.         

Price Protection:  We do not provide price protection to our customers.        Critical Estimates and Assumptions:      Generally accepted accounting principles require the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The more significant areas involving the use
of estimates in our financial statements include allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable, reserves for excess and obsolete inventory, carrying value and lives of fixed assets, goodwill and intangible assets, valuation allowances for
deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, repatriation of unremitted foreign subsidiary earnings, self-insurance reserves, pension benefit liabilities, equity-based compensation expense, resizing, warranties, and litigation. We base our
estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which are the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.      We believe the following
accounting policies require significant judgments and estimates:       Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.  We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for
estimated losses resulting from our customers failure to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. We
are also subject to concentrations of customers and sales to a few geographic locations, which would also impact the collectibility of certain receivables. If economic or political conditions were to change in some of the countries where we do
business, it could have a significant impact on the results of our operations, and our ability to realize         
   28   

Table of Contents  

   the full value of our accounts receivable.       Inventory Reserves . We generally provide reserves for obsolete inventory and for inventory considered to be in excess of 12 or 18 months of forecasted future demand. The forecasted demand is based upon internal
projections, historical sales volumes, customer order activity, and a review of consumable inventory levels at our customers  facilities. We communicate forecasts of our future demand to our suppliers and adjust commitments to those suppliers
accordingly. If required, we record additional reserves for the difference between the carrying value of our inventory and the lower of cost or market value, based upon assumptions about future demand, market conditions and the next cyclical market
upturn. If actual market conditions are less favorable than our projections, additional inventory reserves may be required. We review and physically dispose of excess and obsolete inventory on a regular basis.       Valuation of Long-lived Assets . Our long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, and goodwill and intangible assets. Our property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives, and are reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. The fair value of our goodwill and
intangible assets is based upon our estimates of future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. We manage and value our intangible technology assets in the aggregate, as one asset group, not by individual
technology. We perform our annual goodwill and intangible assets impairment tests in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, which coincides with our annual planning process. We also test for impairment whenever a  triggering  event
occurs. Our impairment testing resulted in an impairment charge related to our discontinued test segment business of $100.6 million in fiscal 2005, and an impairment charge of $3.2 million in fiscal 2004 (recorded in Discontinued Operations) related
to our PC board fabrication business. No impairment charge was recorded in fiscal 2006, as a result of our annual impairment test. If our actual results are less favorable than the estimates or assumptions used to determine the fair value of the
respective assets, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets .       Income Taxes.  We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we expect is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and our ongoing tax planning
strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, if we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of our net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would increase
income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would decrease income in the
period such determination was made. In fiscal 2002 and 2003 we established a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets generated from our U.S. net operating losses. In fiscal 2004 and 2006 we reversed the portion of the valuation allowance
that was equal to the U.S. federal income tax expense on our U.S. income for that fiscal year or related to our plans to repatriate certain unremitted foreign earnings. In fiscal 2005, we generated additional U.S. net operating loss carryforwards
and established additional valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets. Also in fiscal 2005, we reduced the valuation allowance against U.S. net operating loss carryfowards for the repatriation of certain foreign earnings in fiscal 2006.
     Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves when, despite our belief
that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are subject to challenge and that we may not succeed. We are currently subject to multiple tax audits and we believe that it is unlikely that the result of any of
these audits would result in expense greater than our reserves. An adverse finding could result in a significant cash outlay.       Equity-based
Compensation.  Beginning on October 1, 2005 we account for our employee stock option grants under the provisions of SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based Payments  ( SFAS 123R ). SFAS 123R requires the recognition of the fair value
of equity-based compensation in net income. The fair value of our stock option awards was estimated using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. This model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions and elections in adopting and
implementing SFAS 123R, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award. The fair value of equity-based awards is amortized over the vesting period of the award and we have elected to use the straight-line method for
awards granted after the adoption of SFAS 123R and continue to use a graded vesting method for awards granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R,         
   29   

Table of Contents  

   we accounted for our stock option grants under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board
( APB ) Opinion No. 25  Accounting For Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 ) and made pro forma footnote disclosures as required by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting For Stock-Based Compensation   
 Transition and Disclosure , which amends SFAS No. 123,  Accounting For Stock-Based Compensation . Pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share disclosed in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements were
estimated using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R, we will only recognize a benefit from stock-based compensation in paid-in-capital if an incremental tax benefit is realized after all other tax
attributes currently available to us have been utilized.       Correction of Error       As part of our fiscal 2006 annual financial closing process, it was determined that certain balance sheet accounts had not been properly reconciled during prior annual or interim periods. Specifically, the general
ledger balance was either not agreed to supporting sub-ledger activity or the supporting documentation was inaccurate. As a result, we have determined that prior to correction, accrued liabilities were overstated by $4.3 million. We reviewed the
impact of these errors on prior annual and interim periods and concluded that the cumulative impact of these errors in fiscal 2006 does not have a material impact on 2006. In accordance with APB No. 28,  Interim Financial Reporting
 ( APB 28 ), paragraph 29, in determining materiality for the purpose of reporting the cumulative effect of an error, amounts should be related to the estimated income for the full fiscal year and also the effect on the trend of
earnings. Changes that are material with respect to an interim period but not material with respect to the estimated income for the full fiscal year or to the trend of earnings should be separately disclosed in the interim period. As the impact of
correcting the error in fiscal 2006 was not material to the full year results, we have recorded the full amount in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for discussion of the impact of this
correction on the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 results. The correction increased fiscal 2006 income from continuing operations by $4.3 million and increased the loss from discontinued operations by $0.5 million.       Overview of Statement of Operations        Net revenues.  Our
equipment sales depend on the capital expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers and subcontract assemblers worldwide, which in turn, depend on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and technology driven advancements in
semiconductor design.      Our packaging materials sales depend on manufacturing expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers and subcontract assemblers
worldwide, many of which also purchase our equipment products. However, the volatility in unit demand for our packaging materials is less than that of our equipment sales due to the consumable nature of these products. Our gold bonding wire is
generally priced based on a fabrication charge per 1,000 feet of wire, plus the value of the gold, which generally matches the price we pay for the gold from our gold supplier. Accordingly, we do not absorb fluctuations in the price of gold, but
they may have a significant impact on our reported net revenue.       Cost of sales.  Equipment cost of sales consists mainly of subassemblies, materials,
direct and indirect labor costs, and other overhead. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture many of the components and subassemblies for our products and we rely on sole source suppliers for some material components.      Packaging materials cost of sales consists primarily of gold and aluminum, direct labor, and other materials used in the manufacture of bonding wire, capillaries,
wedges, and other company products, with the cost of gold metal making up the majority of the cost. To minimize our exposure to gold price fluctuations, we obtain gold for fabrication under a contract with our gold supplier, which generally matches
the price we pay for the gold with the price we invoice our customers. Accordingly, fluctuations in the price of gold are generally absorbed by our gold supplier. Since gold makes up a significant portion of the cost of sales and net revenues of our
bonding wire business unit, the gross profit as a percentage of sales of that business unit and therefore of the packaging materials segment is lower than can be expected in the equipment business.       Selling, general and administrative expense.  Our selling, general and administrative expense is comprised primarily of personnel and related costs, professional
fees, and depreciation expense.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

    Research and development expense.  Our research and development expense consists primarily of labor, prototype
material and other costs associated with our development efforts to strengthen our product lines and develop new products and depreciation expense. Included in research and development expense is the cost to develop the software that operates our
semiconductor assembly equipment, which is expensed as incurred. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development costs.       Recent
Accounting Pronouncements       In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the  FASB ) issued SFAS 123R which requires measurement
of all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair-value method and the recording of such expense in the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the adoption of SFAS 123R requires additional accounting changes related to the income
tax effects and disclosure regarding the cash flow effects resulting from share-based payment arrangements. In January 2005, the SEC issued SAB No. 107, which provides supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS 123R. We selected the
Black-Scholes option pricing model as the method to estimate the fair value for awards and will recognize compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The Company adopted SFAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal
2006. (See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements).      In February 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-4,  Classification of
Options and Similar Instruments Issued as Employee Compensation That Allow for Cash Settlement upon the Occurrence of a Contingent Event . This position amends SFAS 123R to incorporate that a cash settlement feature that can be exercised only
upon the occurrence of a contingent event that is outside the employee s control does not meet certain conditions in SFAS 123R until it becomes probable that the event will occur. The guidance in this FASB Staff Position shall be applied upon
the initial adoption of SFAS 123R. The Company adopted SFAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. (See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements).      The Company also adopted the following accounting pronouncements in fiscal 2006:       

FASB Interpretation No. 47 ( FIN 47 ),  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 .
       The adoption of SFAS 151, SFAS 153 and FIN 47 did not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition.
     In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  ( SFAS 154 ), which replaces APB Opinion
No. 20,  Accounting Changes  and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements   An Amendment of APB Opinion No. 28 . SFAS 154 provides guidance on the accounting for and reporting of
accounting changes and error corrections. It establishes retrospective application, or the earliest practicable date, as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle and restatement with respect to the reporting of a correction
of an error. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We are required to be adopt SFAS 154 in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. We do not expect the adoption
of SFAS 154 to have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition.      In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,
 Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140 (  SFAS 155  ).  SFAS 155 simplifies the accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments that contain an
embedded derivative that otherwise would have required bifurcation. SFAS 155 also eliminates the interim guidance in SFAS 133, which provides that beneficial interests in securitized financial assets are not subject to the provisions of SFAS 133.
SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entity s first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. SFAS 155 is required to be adopted by the Company in the first quarter of
fiscal 2007. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS         
   31   

Table of Contents  

   155 to have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition.      In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets   an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140  ( SFAS
156 ). SFAS 156 requires that all separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities be initially measured at fair value, if practicable. The statement permits, but does not require, the subsequent measurement of servicing assets
and servicing liabilities at fair value. SFAS 156 is effective as of the beginning of an entity s first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. We are required to adopt SFAS 156 in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. We do not
expect the adoption of SFAS 156 to have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition.      In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB
Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  ( FIN 48 ), an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s
financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109. FIN 48 prescribes a two-step process to determine the amount of tax benefit to be recognized. First, the tax position must be evaluated to determine the likelihood that it will be sustained upon
examination. If the tax position is deemed  more-likely-than-not  to be sustained, the tax position is then measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured at the largest
amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. FIN 48 is required to be adopted by the Company in fiscal 2008. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of FIN 48 on our financial position
and results of operations      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements . This Statement clarifies the definition of
fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures on fair value measurements. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. We are currently
evaluating the impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 157 on our consolidated results of operations or financial position.      In September 2006, the SEC
issued SAB No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Current Year Misstatements  ( SAB 108 ) .  SAB 108 requires analysis of misstatements using both an income statement (rollover)
approach and a balance sheet (iron curtain) approach in assessing materiality and provides for a one-time cumulative effect transition adjustment. SAB 108 is effective for annual financial statements issued for fiscal years ending after
November 15, 2006. We do not expect the adoption of SAB 108 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132R  ( SFAS
158 ) .  SFAS 158 requires an employer to: (i) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plan s overfunded status or a liability for a plan s underfunded status; (ii) measure a plan s assets
and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer s fiscal year; and (iii) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur. Those
changes will be reported in comprehensive income similar to the additional minimum pension liability adjustment required under SFAS No. 87,  Employers Accounting for Pension s. The requirements listed under (i) and (iii) above
are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006, and the requirement listed under (ii) above is effective as of December 31, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of SFAS 158 on our financial
position and results of operations.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations         Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2004, 2005, and 2006        The table below shows the principal line items from continuing operations
of our consolidated statements of operations, as a percentage of our net sales:       
      Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2005 and September 30, 2006         Bookings and Backlog.  During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, we recorded bookings of $660.9 million compared to $516.2 million in fiscal 2005. A
booking is recorded when a customer order is reviewed and a determination is made that all specifications can be met, production (or service) can be scheduled, a delivery date can be set, and the customer meets the Company s credit
requirements. At September 30, 2006, the backlog of customer orders totaled $56.0 million, compared to $91.5 million at September 30, 2005. Since the timing of deliveries may vary and orders are generally subject to cancellation, our
backlog as of any date may not be indicative of net sales for any succeeding period.        Net Revenues        Business segment net revenues:       
     Net Revenue.  Overall, net revenue for fiscal 2006 increased $220.8 million or 46.4% to $696.3 million from
$475.5 million in fiscal 2005. Included in the revenue for the package material segment is gold metal value that is generally passed through to the customer. The total amount of gold metal value included in our packaging materials revenue in fiscal
2006 is $278.8 million compared to $183.8 million in fiscal 2005. These same amounts are included in the cost of sales. Following is a review of net revenue for each of our two business segments.      For fiscal 2006, net revenue for the equipment segment increased $118.2 million or 58.6% to $319.8 million from $201.6 million in fiscal 2005. The increase in revenue
was due to a 75.1% increase in unit sales of our automatic ball bonders, caused by increased industry-wide demand for backend semiconductor equipment. Average selling         
   33   

Table of Contents  

   prices (ASP) decreased 1.5% compared to fiscal year 2005. Fiscal year 2005 included significant volume of a customized
product to a customer with a much higher ASP than a traditional ball bonder.      For fiscal 2006, net revenue for the packaging materials segment increased
$102.6 million, or 37.5% to $376.5 million from $273.9 million in fiscal 2005. This increase in revenue primarily resulted from a $100.5 million increase in wire revenue. Of the $100.5 million increase in wire revenue, $34.9 million was due to
increased volumes of wire sold (measured in Kft) and $65.6 million was due to an increase in gold wire average selling prices primarily caused by an increase in the price of gold. Gold wire selling prices are heavily dependent upon the price of gold
and can fluctuate significantly from period to period.      The majority of our sales are to customers that are located outside of the United States or that
have manufacturing facilities outside of the United States. Shipments of our products with ultimate foreign destinations comprised 95% of our total sales in fiscal 2005 and 93% in 2006. The majority of these foreign sales were to customer locations
in the Asia/Pacific region, including Taiwan, Malaysia, Korea, Singapore, and Japan. Taiwan accounted for the largest single destination for our product shipments with 25% of our shipments in fiscal 2006 compared to 27% of our shipments in the prior
fiscal year.        Gross Profit        Business segment
gross profit:       
     Gross profit.  Overall, gross profit for fiscal 2006 increased $60.5 million to $196.6 million from $136.1
million in fiscal 2005. This higher gross profit is primarily due to increased industry-wide demand, particularly for automatic ball bonders sold within our equipment segment.      For fiscal 2006, our equipment segment gross profit increased $55.3 million, compared to fiscal year 2005, as industry-wide demand for automatic ball bonders increased sharply. Gross margin increased to 44.2% in
fiscal year 2006 from 42.7% in fiscal year 2005. The increase in gross margin was mainly due to a 0.3% reduction in material cost. Approximately $3.5 million of our equipment segment s fiscal 2006 gross profit included a cumulative adjustment
to correct an immaterial error (See Note 1 and Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements).      For fiscal 2006, our packaging materials segment gross
profit increased $5.2 million to $55.2 million from $50.0 million in fiscal 2005. This increase was primarily due to increased sales of gold wire and expendable tools. Our packaging materials gross margin declined to 14.7% from 18.3% for the year
ago period. This decline in gross margin was primarily due to a 31.5% increase in the cost of gold during fiscal 2006, compared to the same period a year ago. The 46.6% increase in wire sales also contributed to the decline in gross margins during
the twelve months ended September 30, 2006, compared to the same period a year ago.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

     Operating Expenses         
      Selling, General and Administrative Expenses        Selling, General and Administrative ( SG A ) expenses of $81.5 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 increased $11.9 million compared to
the SG A expenses of $69.5 million in fiscal 2005. This increase was primarily due to an increase in incentive compensation of $9.0 million, and the recording of $3.0 million of stock-based compensation expense associated with the adoption of
SFAS 123R in fiscal 2006. Incentive compensation expense is recorded when net income and certain other performance targets are achieved.        Research
and Development        Research and Development expenses for fiscal 2006 increased by $9.2 million to $37.7 million from $28.5 million in fiscal 2005. The
increase was primarily due to costs associated with the development of the next generation ball bonder and stock based compensation associated with the adoption of SFAS 123R.        Gain on sale of assets        For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, the $4.5 million net gain on sale
of assets represents the gain recognized on the sale of the land and building of our former corporate headquarters location in Willow Grove, Pennsylvania. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, the $1.7 million net gain on sale of assets
primarily consists of the gain on the sale of our wedge bonding technology of $1.6 million.        Income from Operations        Income from operations by business segment appears below:       
    For fiscal 2006, we had income from operations of $82.0 million, compared to income from operations of $39.8
million in fiscal 2005. This change was primarily due to a $220.8 million increase in sales caused by increased industry-wide demand for automatic ball bonders.      For fiscal 2006, income from operations for our equipment business segment increased $35.4 million due to increased industry-wide demand for our automatic ball bonders. Income from operations for our packaging materials business segment
increased $2.3 million primarily due to higher volumes of wire sold and an increase in gold wire average selling price caused by an increase in the price of gold.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

     Interest Income and Expense        Interest income during fiscal 2006 was $1.7 million higher than in fiscal 2005 due to higher rates of return on invested cash balances and higher invested cash balances. Interest expense in fiscal 2006 was $0.7
million lower than fiscal 2005. Interest expense in both the current and prior fiscal year primarily reflects interest on our Convertible Subordinated Notes. The reduction in interest expense in fiscal 2006 was primarily due to the repurchase of a
portion of our outstanding 0.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes having an aggregate principal outstanding amount of $75.0 million.        Gain (loss) on
Early Extinguishment of Debt        In fiscal 2006, we exchanged a total of 3.6 million shares of our common stock and $26.4 million of cash for
$75.0 million (face value) of our Convertible Subordinated Notes outstanding. In accordance with APB No. 26,  Early Extinguishment of Debt , we recorded a gain on early extinguishment of debt of $4.0 million, net of deferred amortization
costs written off of $1.3 million and transaction costs of $0.4 million, as the exchanges included a number of shares that was less than the number of shares issuable under the original conversion terms.        Provision for Income Taxes        Our provision for income taxes
from continuing operations for fiscal 2006 reflects income tax expense of $9.8 million, which primarily consists of $1.3 million for federal alternative minimum taxes, $2.0 million for state income taxes, $2.0 million for income taxes on income
earned in foreign jurisdictions, $3.6 million of income tax expense for additional foreign income tax exposures, $0.6 million for potential repatriation of foreign earnings, and $0.3 for foreign withholding taxes. Our tax expense in fiscal 2005
reflects income tax expense on income in foreign jurisdictions, foreign income tax exposures and potential repatriation of foreign earnings.      Our future
effective tax rate would be affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates by changes in the valuation of our deferred
tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. We regularly assess the effects resulting from these factors to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
       Loss from Discontinued Operations, net of tax        In fiscal 2005 and 2006, our discontinued operations consist of our former test interconnect business unit (see the description of the sale of this business in the introduction to this Management s Discussion Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations).      The test segment was sold in fiscal 2006, but had net revenue of $42.7 million through the date of sale. This former
segment reported net revenue of $85.7 million in fiscal 2005. The loss from the test segment s operations for fiscal 2006 was $24.9 million, including a loss on disposal of $0.8 million, net of a benefit from income taxes of $1.4 million.
Included in the loss from discontinued operations are operating losses of $10.6 million, and accrued severance and facilities costs of approximately $6.4 million and $6.1 million, respectively. The facilities costs of $6.1 million are net of
estimated sublease income from the affected facilities. These estimates of sublease income are subject to change, and such changes could result in an increase or decrease to the estimated facilities charges previously recorded. These payments are
expected to be paid out through September 2012. The loss from the test segment s operations for fiscal 2005 was $137.4 million. The major classes of test assets and liabilities sold included: $12.3 million in accounts receivable; $9.8 million
in inventory; $12.7 million in property, plant and equipment; and $5.2 million in accounts payable.      Accruals recorded in fiscal 2006 for obligations
associated with the discontinuation of the test business are presented below:         
   36   

Table of Contents  

Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2004 and September 30, 2005         Bookings and Backlog.  During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, we recorded bookings of $516.2 million compared to $594.7 million in fiscal 2004. A
booking is recorded when a customer order is reviewed and a determination is made that all specifications can be met, production (or service) can be scheduled, a delivery date can be set, and the customer meets the Company s credit
requirements. At September 30, 2005, the backlog of customer orders totaled $91.5 million, compared to $50.8 million at September 30, 2004. Since the timing of deliveries may vary and orders are generally subject to cancellation, our
backlog as of any date may not be indicative of net sales for any succeeding period.        Net Revenues        Business segment net revenues:       
     Net Revenue.  Overall, net revenue for fiscal 2005 decreased $120.4 million or 20% to $475.5 million from
$595.9 million in fiscal 2004. Following is a review of net revenue for each of our two business segments.      For fiscal 2005, net revenue for the equipment
segment declined $159.6 million or 44% to $201.6 million from $361.2 million in fiscal 2004. This decrease in revenue was primarily due to a 51% reduction in unit sales of our automatic ball bonders caused by reduced industry-wide demand for backend
semiconductor equipment. Partially offsetting this decrease in unit sales was a 2% increase in average selling prices, resulting from higher average selling prices on our next generation automatic ball bonders. Generally, the proportion of newer
models sold, as well as product and customer mix, impact average selling prices.      For fiscal 2005, net revenue for the packaging materials segment
increased $39.2 million or 17% to $273.9 million from $234.7 million in fiscal 2004. This increase in revenue resulted from a $43.7 million increase in wire revenue that was partially offset by a $4.2 million reduction in expendable tools revenue.
The $43.7 million increase in wire revenue was primarily due to a 27.2% increase in gold wire unit volumes caused by increased orders from existing customers and two new customers in Taiwan, along with a 8.0% increase in average selling prices
caused by an increase in the price of gold. The $4.2 million reduction in expendable tools revenue was primarily due to an 8% reduction in average selling prices caused by pricing pressures, and a 4% reduction in capillary unit sales caused by lower
industry-wide demand. Gold wire selling prices are heavily dependent upon the price of gold and can fluctuate significantly from period to period.      The
majority of our sales are to customers that are located outside of the United States or that have manufacturing facilities outside of the United States. Shipments of our products with ultimate foreign destinations comprised 95% of our total sales in
both fiscal 2005 and 2004. The majority of these foreign sales were to customer locations in the Asia/Pacific region, including Taiwan, Malaysia, Korea, Singapore, and Japan. Taiwan accounted for the largest single destination for our product
shipments with 27% of our shipments in fiscal 2005 compared to 29% of our         
   37   

Table of Contents  

   shipments in the prior fiscal year.        Gross Profit        Business segment gross profit:       
     Gross profit.  Overall, gross profit for fiscal 2005 decreased $68.6 million to $136.1 million from $204.7
million in fiscal 2004. This lower gross profit is primarily due to reduced industry-wide demand, particularly for automatic ball bonders sold within our equipment segment.      For fiscal 2005, gross profit for the equipment segment decreased $66.6 million to $86.1 million from $152.6 million in fiscal 2004, as industry-wide demand for automatic ball bonders declined sharply. Our equipment
segment gross margin increased slightly from 42.3% in fiscal 2004 to 42.7% in fiscal 2005.      For fiscal 2005, gross profit for our packaging materials
segment decreased $2.1 million to $50.0 million from $52.1 million in fiscal 2004. This $2.1 million (net) reduction was primarily due to lower average selling prices for our capillary products (caused by pricing pressures) that amounted to $4.0
million, which was partially offset by an increase in gross profit of $1.9 million from increased gold wire sales. Our packaging materials segment gross margin declined to 18.3% during fiscal 2005 from 22.2% in fiscal 2004. This decline in gross
margin was primarily due to a higher percentage of lower margin wire sales compared to other packaging materials sold, as wire sales increased 25% during fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. An 8% increase in the cost of gold also contributed to the
decline in gross margins during fiscal 2005, compared to fiscal 2004.        Operating Expenses         
      Selling, General and Administrative Expenses        SG A expenses of $69.5 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 decreased $5.6 million compared to the SG A expenses of $75.1 million in fiscal
2004. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in incentive compensation of $6.3 million, which was partially offset by an increase in professional fees of $2.3 million, which includes the costs associated with the Company s compliance
with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Incentive compensation expense is recorded when net income and certain other performance targets are achieved.        Research and Development        Research and Development expenses for fiscal 2005 were flat at $28.5 million from
$28.4 million in fiscal 2004.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

     Resizing        The
Company recorded resizing charges in fiscal 2002 of $19.7 million (includes $14.1 million in continuing operations and $5.6 million in discontinued operations) and $4.2 million in fiscal 2001 (includes $3.9 million in continuing operations and $0.3
million in discontinued operations). In fiscal 2004, the Company reversed $0.1 million of these resizing charges in continuing operations and in fiscal 2003 it reversed $0.5 million of these resizing charges (includes $0.4 million in continuing
operations and $0.1 million in discontinued operations) as the actual severance costs were less than the costs originally estimated.      In addition to the
formal resizing costs identified below, the Company continued (and is continuing) to downsize its operations. These downsizing efforts resulted in workforce reduction charges, consisting primarily of severance and benefit payments recorded in
continuing and discontinued operations, of $3.7 million in fiscal 2005 compared to $4.5 million in fiscal 2004. In contrast to the resizing plans discussed above, these workforce reductions were not related to formal or distinct restructurings, but
rather, the normal and recurring management of employment levels in response to business conditions and our ongoing effort to reduce the Company s cost structure.      A table of the charges, reversals and payments of the formal resizing plans initiated in fiscal 2002 appears below:       
    The plans have been completed but cash payments for the severance charges and commitments (non-cancelable
operating lease obligations) will continue into fiscal 2006.        Gain on sale of assets        For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, the $1.7 million net gain on sale of assets primarily consists of the gain on the sale of our wedge bonding technology
of $1.6 million. In fiscal 2004, we realized a gain of $0.9 million on the sale of land and a building.        Income from Continuing Operations
       Income from operations by business segment appears below:         
   39   

Table of Contents  

For fiscal 2005, we had income from continuing operations of $39.8 million, compared to income from continuing
operations of $102.2 million in fiscal 2004. This change was primarily due to a $120.4 million decline in sales caused by reduced industry-wide demand for automatic ball bonders.      For fiscal 2005, income from operations for our equipment business segment decreased $56.0 million due to reduced industry-wide demand for our automatic ball bonders. Income from operations for our packaging materials
business segment decreased $6.4 million due to lower capillary sales caused by pricing pressures and lower industry-wide demand.        Interest Income and
Expense        Interest income during fiscal 2005 was $1.1 million higher than in fiscal 2004 due to higher rates of return on invested cash balances.
Interest expense during fiscal 2005 was $3.8 million compared to $10.5 million in fiscal 2004. Interest expense in both the current and prior fiscal year primarily reflects interest on our Convertible Subordinated Notes. The reduction in interest
expense for fiscal 2005 was due to the early extinguishment of our 4.75% and 5.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes and issuance of our 0.5% and 1.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes during fiscal 2004.        Charge on Early Extinguishment of Debt        In fiscal 2004, we
incurred costs of $10.5 million to redeem our 4.75% and 5.25% convertible subordinated notes, of which $6.0 million was a redemption premium cash charge and $4.5 million was due to the write-off of deferred financing costs associated with the
initial issuance of the notes during fiscal 2004.        Provision for Income Taxes        The provision for income taxes for fiscal 2005 reflects income tax expense of $4.8 million, which primarily consists of $4.4 million of income taxes on income earned in foreign jurisdictions, $3.3 million for
additional foreign income tax exposure, $0.6 million for the potential repatriation of foreign earnings, $0.4 million for U.S. Alternative Minimum tax, and a credit of $3.9 million associated with a reduction of the valuation allowance on U.S. net
operating loss carryfowards due to the planned repatriation of foreign earnings in fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2005, we increased our valuation allowance against U.S. net operating loss carryforwards by approximately $3.0 million, which is equal to
the amount of deferred tax asset generated by additional U.S. net operating loss carryforwards. Our tax expense in fiscal 2004 reflects income tax on income in foreign jurisdictions, alternative minimum tax on U.S. income and a provision for
California state income tax.      Our future effective tax rate would be affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower
statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations
thereof. We regularly assess the effects resulting from these factors to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.      On October 22,
2004, the U.S. Government passed The American Jobs Creation Act (the  Act ). The Act provides for certain tax benefits including but not limited to the reinvestment of foreign earnings in the United States. For         
   40   

Table of Contents  

   fiscal 2006, we can elect, under the Act, to apply an 85% dividends-received deduction against certain dividends received
from controlled foreign corporations, in which it is a U.S. shareholder. We have evaluated the potential benefit(s) under the Act and concluded that we are unlikely to derive a material benefit from doing so.        Loss from Discontinued Operations, net of tax        The
Company s discontinued operations consists of its test interconnect business unit (see the description of the sale of this business in the introduction to this Management s Discussion Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations) in fiscal 2005 and its test interconnect and Flip chip businesses in fiscal 2004. Net sales included in discontinued operation were $85.7 million in fiscal 2005 compared to $131.2 million in fiscal 2004. The lower sales of $45.5 million
or 35% were primarily due to reduced industry-wide demand, reduced market share caused by factory closings and operations transfers, product pricing pressures, and lower demand for our products from our customers. The net loss from discontinued
operations in fiscal 2005 was $137.4 million compared to $18.8 million in the prior year. The increased loss of $118.6 million was due primarily to a goodwill impairment charge of $51.8 million, an asset impairment charge of $48.8 million, and lower
gross profit as the result of the lower net sales. The major classes of test assets and liabilities sold included: $12.3 million in accounts receivable; $9.8 million in inventory; $12.7 million in property, plant and equipment; and $5.2 million in
accounts payable.       LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES       As
of September 30, 2006, total cash and investments were $157.3 million compared to $95.4 million at September 30, 2005, an increase of $61.9 million.      The net cash provided by operating activities (from continuing operations) in fiscal 2006 was $78.3 million and primarily attributable to income from continuing operations of $77.0 million plus non-cash expenses/income of $8.2 million that
was partially offset by net changes in operating assets and liabilities of $6.9 million. The net outflow of cash from operating assets and liabilities of $6.9 million was primarily due to the paydown of accounts payable partially offset by a
reduction in accounts receivable. Including the net cash used in discontinued operations of $15.0 million, net cash provided by operating activities was $63.3 million in fiscal 2006.      The net cash used in investing activities (from continuing operations) of $16.9 million consists of purchases of short-term investments totaling $36.6 million and capital expenditures of $9.5 million offset in part by
the net proceeds from the sale of marketable securities of $29.8 million. Including the net cash provided by discontinued operations of $28.0 million, which represents primarily the proceeds from the sale of the test business, net cash provided by
investing activities was $11.0 million in fiscal 2006.      The net cash used in financing activities of $19.8 million includes $26.6 million of cash used in
the early extinguishment of $75.0 million (face value) of our Convertible Subordinated Notes that is partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $6.8 million.      As mentioned previously, we acquired Alphasem, a leading supplier of die bonder equipment in November 2006, for approximately $27.1 million in cash, after a working
capital adjustment and subject to further post closing adjustments. In addition to the cash used to purchase Alphasem, our primary need for cash in fiscal 2007 will be to provide the working capital necessary to meet our expected production and
sales levels and to make the necessary capital expenditures to enhance our production and operating activities. We expect our fiscal 2007 capital expenditure needs to be between $10 million and $15 million. We financed our working capital needs and
capital expenditure needs in fiscal 2006, and the acquisition of Alphasem, through internally generated funds and expect to continue to generate cash from operating activities during fiscal 2007 to meet our cash needs. We expect to use the excess
cash generated from our operating activities to fund future growth opportunities and/or to redeem a portion of our convertible subordinated notes.      Our
long term debt at September 30, 2005 and 2006 consisted of the following:         
   41   

Table of Contents  

Our 0.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes mature on November 30, 2008, bear interest at 0.5% per annum and
are convertible into common stock of the Company at a conversion price of $20.33 per share, subject to adjustment for certain events. The notes are general obligations of the Company and are subordinated to all senior debt. The notes rank equally
with the Company s 1.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes (described below). There are no financial covenants associated with the notes and there are no restrictions on incurring additional debt or issuing or repurchasing our securities. Interest
on the notes is payable on May 30 and November 30 of each year. In fiscal 2006, we exchanged a total of 3.6 million shares of our common stock and $26.4 million of cash for $75.0 million (face value) of the 0.5% Convertible
Subordinated Notes.      Our 1.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes mature on June 30, 2010, bear interest at 1.0% per annum and are convertible into
our common stock at a conversion price of $12.84 per share, subject to adjustment for certain events. The conversion rights of these notes may be terminated if the closing price of our common stock has exceeded 140% of the conversion price then in
effect for at least 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading days. The notes are general obligations of the Company and are subordinated to all senior debt. The notes rank equally with our 0.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes. There
are no financial covenants associated with the notes and there are no restrictions on incurring additional debt or issuing or repurchasing our securities. Interest on the notes is payable on June 30 and December 30 of each year.
     In accordance with SFAS No. 98,  Accounting For Leases , during fiscal 2005 the Company recorded debt of $10.6 million (reduced to $10.1
million at September 30, 2005 and classified as a current liability), as part of accounting for a sale-leaseback transaction, associated with the sale of our former headquarters building in Willow Grove, PA, as a direct financing arrangement.
The building in Willow Grove was sold in May 2006 and this direct financing liability was eliminated and removed from our balance sheet.      Under U.S.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, certain obligations and commitments are not required to be included in our consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations. These obligations and commitments, while entered into in the normal course
of business, may have a material impact on our liquidity. Certain of the following commitments as of September 30, 2006 have not been included in our consolidated balance sheet and statements of operations included in Item 8 to this
report; however, they have been disclosed in the following table in order to provide a more complete picture of our financial position and liquidity. The most significant of these are our operating lease commitments and inventory purchase
obligations.      The following table identifies obligations and contingent payments under various arrangements at September 30, 2006, including those not
included in our consolidated balance sheet:         
   42   

Table of Contents  

*  
  Represents contractual amounts not reflected in the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2006.     

**  
  $5.5 million of the discontinued operations operating lease obligation is reflected in the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2006.        In addition the to the obligations identified in the above table, the following long-term liabilities are recorded in our consolidated balance sheet at
September 30, 2006: obligation to our non-contributory defined benefit pension plan of $2.1 million; post employment foreign severance obligations of $2.2 million; and lease retirement obligations of $2.0 million. The timing of the ultimate
payment of these obligations was uncertain at September 30, 2006.      Long-term debt includes the amounts due under our 0.5% Convertible Subordinated
Notes due 2008 and our 1.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2010. The operating lease obligations at September 30, 2006 represent obligations due under various facility and equipment leases with terms up to fifteen years in duration.
Inventory purchase obligations represent outstanding purchase commitments for inventory components ordered in the normal course of business. The Gold supply financing guarantee includes gold inventory purchases we are obligated to pay for upon
shipment of fabricated gold to our customers.      The standby letters of credit represent obligations in lieu of security deposits for employee benefit
programs and a customs bond.      At September 30, 2006, the fair value of our $130.0 million 0.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes was $114.7 million, and
the fair value of our $65.0 million 1.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes was $55.9 million. The fair values were determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. The fair value of our other assets and liabilities approximates the book
value of those assets and liabilities. At September 30, 2006, the Standard   Poor s rating on our convertible subordinated notes was B-.      We have a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all U.S. employees who were employed on September 30, 1995. The benefits for this plan were based on the employees  years of service and the
employees  compensation during the three years before retirement. Our funding policy is consistent with the funding requirements of U.S. Federal employee benefit and tax laws. We contributed approximately $1.8 million (based on the market price
at the time of contribution) in Company stock to the Plan in Fiscal 2006 and $1.5 million in fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2007, we expect to make a contribution of up to $5.0 million in a combination of Company common stock and cash. Effective
December 31, 1995, the benefits under the Company s pension plan were frozen. As a consequence, accrued benefits no longer change as a result of an employee s length of service or compensation.         
   43   

Table of Contents  

   We believe that our existing cash reserves and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our
liquidity and capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, our liquidity is affected by many factors, some based on normal operations of the business and others related to uncertainties of the industry and global economies. We may
seek, as we believe appropriate, additional debt or equity financing to provide capital for corporate purposes. We may also seek additional debt or equity financing for the refinancing or redemption of existing debt and/or to fund strategic business
opportunities, including possible acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances or other business arrangements which could require substantial capital outlays. The timing and amount of such potential capital requirements cannot be determined at this time
and will depend on a number of factors, including demand for our products, semiconductor and semiconductor capital equipment industry conditions, competitive factors, the condition of financial markets and the nature and size of strategic business
opportunities which we may elect to pursue.       
  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.       We are exposed to changes in interest rates
primarily from our investments in certain available-for-sale securities. Our available-for-sale securities consist primarily of fixed income investments (corporate bonds, commercial paper and U.S. Treasury and Agency securities). We continually
monitor our exposure to changes in interest rates and credit ratings of issuers with respect to our available-for-sale securities and target an average life to maturity of less than eighteen months. Accordingly, we believe that the effects of
changes in interest rates and credit ratings of issuers are limited and would not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. At September 30, 2006, we had a non-trading investment portfolio of fixed income
securities, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents, of $21.3 million (see Note 5 of the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements). If market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of
September 30, 2006, the fair market value of the portfolio would decline by approximately $0.1 million.      Our international operations, particularly
those in Switzerland, are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates due to transactions denominated in currencies other than the location s functional currency (the Swiss Franc and the Euro). We are also exposed to foreign currency
fluctuations due to remeasurement of the net monetary assets of our Israel and Singapore operations  local currencies into the location s functional currency, the U.S. dollar. Based on our overall currency rate exposure at
September 30, 2006, a near term 10% appreciation or depreciation in the foreign currency portfolio to the U.S. dollar could have approximately a $2.0 million impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for a three
month period. This impact is heavily dependent on numerous factors associated with our foreign operations, including sales to certain customers, product mix and demand, and expense levels. We may enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and
other instruments designed to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our business. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful and may result in a material adverse impact on our financial results and
cash flows.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

   [This page intentionally left blank]         
   45   

Table of Contents  

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.       The Consolidated Financial Statements of Kulicke and Soffa
Industries, Inc. listed in the index appearing under Item 15 (a)(1) herein are filed as part of this Report under this Item 8.       
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM        To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Kulicke  
Soffa Industries, Inc.:       We have completed integrated audits of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. s 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial
statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 and an audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.       Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule       In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. (the  Company ) at September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects,
the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      As discussed in Note 8 the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(revised
2004)  Share-Based Payment  during the year ended September 30, 2006.       Internal control over financial reporting       Also, we have audited management s assessment, included in Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that
Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, because of the effect of the Company not maintaining effective controls over processes associated with the
reconciliation and analysis of certain accounts payable and accrual balances, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on
management s assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our
audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the         
   46   

Table of Contents  

   circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the
annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The following material weakness has been identified and included in management s assessment. As of September 30, 2006, the Company did not operate effective controls
over the process associated with the reconciliation and analysis of certain account balances. Specifically, the Company did not ensure the general ledger for certain balances were accurately and completely reconciled with the subledgers or other
supporting documentation. As a result of this deficiency, during fiscal 1999 through 2005, certain accounts payable and accrual balances were overstated and the Company s earnings were understated. These misstatements were reflected in the
Company s financial statements through June 2006. This control deficiency could have resulted in a material misstatement of certain balance sheet accounts and related income statement accounts in the Company s annual or interim
consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected in a timely manner.      This material weakness was considered in determining the
nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the 2006 consolidated financial statements, and our opinion regarding the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting does not affect our opinion on
those consolidated financial statements.      In our opinion, management s assessment that Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. did not maintain effective
internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in  Internal Control - Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO. Also, in our opinion, because of
the effect of the material weakness described above on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. has not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2006, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO.      /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      Philadelphia, Pennsylvania      December 14, 2006         
   47   

Table of Contents  

KULICKE AND SOFFA INDUSTRIES, INC.        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS         (in thousands)         
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements   
     
   48   

Table of Contents  

KULICKE AND SOFFA INDUSTRIES, INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS        (in thousands, except per share amounts)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements   
     
   49   

Table of Contents  

KULICKE AND SOFFA INDUSTRIES, INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        (in thousands)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements   
     
   50   

Table of Contents  

KULICKE AND SOFFA INDUSTRIES, INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY (DEFICIT)
       (in thousands)        

(1)  
  Includes continuing and discontinued operations.        The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements         
   51   

Table of Contents  

KULICKE AND SOFFA INDUSTRIES, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        NOTE 1: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES        Basis of
Consolidation -  These consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the  Company  or  K S ), with appropriate elimination of intercompany balances and
transactions.      During the quarter ended April 1, 2006, the Company sold its test business. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ( SFAS ) No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  ( SFAS 144 ), the financial results of the test business, including certain balance sheet amounts relating to this business,
have been classified as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. See Note 2 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the test business divestiture.       Nature of Business    The Company designs, manufactures and markets capital equipment and packaging materials and services, maintains, repairs and upgrades
assembly equipment. The Company s operating results depend upon the capital and operating expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers and subcontract assemblers worldwide which, in turn, depend on the current and anticipated market demand for
semiconductors and products utilizing semiconductors. The semiconductor industry is highly volatile and experiences periodic downturns and slowdowns which have a severe negative effect on the semiconductor industry s demand for semiconductor
capital equipment, including assembly equipment manufactured and marketed by the Company and, to a lesser extent, packaging materials such as those sold by the Company. Over time, these downturns and slowdowns have also adversely affected the
Company s operating results. The Company believes such volatility will continue to characterize the industry and the Company s operations in the future.       Management Estimates  - The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The more significant areas involving the use of estimates in these
financial statements include allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable, reserves for excess and obsolete inventory, carrying value and lives of fixed assets, goodwill, valuation allowances for deferred tax assets, deferred tax liabilities for
undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries, tax contingencies, pension benefit liabilities, warranty, and litigation. Actual results could differ from those estimated.       Vulnerability to Certain Concentrations  - Financial instruments, which may subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk at September 30, 2005 and 2006 consist primarily of investments and trade
receivables. The Company manages credit risk associated with investments by investing its excess cash in investment grade debt instruments of the U.S. Government, financial institutions, and corporations. The Company has established investment
guidelines relative to diversification and maturities designed to maintain safety and liquidity. These guidelines are periodically reviewed and modified to take advantage of trends in yields and interest rates. The Company s trade receivables
result primarily from the sale of semiconductor equipment, related accessories and replacement parts, packaging materials and test interconnect products (recorded in discontinued operations) to a relatively small number of large manufacturers in a
highly concentrated industry. The Company continually assesses the financial strength of its customers to reduce the risk of loss. Write-offs of uncollectible accounts have historically not been significant.       Correction of Error       As part of the Company s fiscal 2006 annual
financial closing process, it was determined that certain balance sheet accounts had not been properly reconciled during prior annual or interim periods. Specifically, the general ledger balance was either not agreed to supporting sub-ledger
activity or the supporting documentation was inaccurate. As a result, the Company has determined that prior to correction, accrued liabilities were overstated by $4.3 million. The Company reviewed the impact of these errors on prior annual and
interim periods and concluded that the cumulative impact of these errors in fiscal 2006 does not have a material impact on 2006. In accordance with APB No. 28,  Interim Financial Reporting  ( APB 28 ), paragraph 29, in
determining materiality for the purpose of reporting the cumulative effect of an error, amounts should be related to the estimated income for the full fiscal year and also the effect on the trend of         
   52   

Table of Contents  

   earnings. Changes that are material with respect to an interim period but not material with respect to the estimated
income for the full fiscal year or to the trend of earnings should be separately disclosed in the interim period. As the impact of correcting the error in fiscal 2006 was not material to the full year results, the Company has recorded the full
amount in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. See Note 15 for discussion of the impact of this correction on the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 results. The correction increased fiscal 2006 income from continuing operations by $4.3 million and
increased the loss from discontinued operations by $0.5 million.       Cash Equivalents  - The Company considers all highly liquid investments with
original maturities of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.       Investments  - Investments, other than cash equivalents, are
classified as  trading,   available-for-sale  or  held-to-maturity , in accordance with SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, and depending upon the nature of the
investment, its ultimate maturity date in the case of debt securities, and management s intentions with respect to holding the securities. Investments classified as  trading  are reported at fair market value, with unrealized gains or
losses included in earnings. Investments classified as  available-for-sale  are reported at fair market value, with net unrealized gains or losses reflected as a separate component of shareholders  equity (accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss)). The fair market value of trading and available-for-sale securities is determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. Investments classified as held-to-maturity are reported at amortized cost. Realized
gains and losses are determined on the basis of specific identification of the securities sold.       Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.  The Company
maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from its customers failure to make required payments. If the financial condition of the Company s customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their
ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. The Company also is subject to concentrations of customers and sales to a few geographic locations, which may also impact the collectibility of certain receivables. If economic or
political conditions were to change in the countries where the Company does business, it could have a significant impact on the results of its operations, and its ability to realize the full value of its accounts receivable.       Inventories  - Inventories are stated at the lower of standard cost (which approximates actual cost on a first-in first-out basis) or market value, except for
certain gold inventories on hand that are stated at market value (along with a corresponding liability) in accordance with the terms of our gold supply financing agreement. The Company generally provides reserves for equipment inventory and spare
parts and consumable inventories considered to be in excess of eighteen (18) months of forecasted future demand. The forecasted demand is based upon internal projections, historical sales volumes, customer order activity and a review of
consumable inventory levels at our customers  facilities. The Company communicates forecasts of its future demand to its suppliers and adjusts commitments to those suppliers accordingly. If required, the Company reserves for the difference
between the carrying value of its inventory and the lower of cost or market value, based upon assumptions about future demand, market conditions and the next cyclical market upturn. If actual market conditions are less favorable than its
projections, additional inventory reserves may be required.       Property, Plant and Equipment  - Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost. The
cost of additions and those improvements which increase the capacity or lengthen the useful lives of assets are capitalized while repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line
basis over the estimated useful lives as follows: buildings 25 to 40 years; machinery and equipment 3 to 10 years; and leasehold improvements are based on the shorter of the life of lease or life of asset. Purchased computer software costs related
to business and financial systems are amortized over a five year period on a straight-line basis.       Long-Lived Assets    The Company s
long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment and goodwill. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  ( SFAS 142 ), the Company s goodwill is no longer amortized. The
standard also requires that an impairment test be performed to support the carrying value of goodwill at least annually, and whenever events occur that may impact the carrying value of goodwill. The Company s goodwill impairment test utilizes
discounted cash flows to determine fair value and comparative market multiples to corroborate fair value.      In accordance with SFAS No. 144,
 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets  ( SFAS 144 ), the         
   53   

Table of Contents  

   Company s property, plant and equipment is tested for impairment based on undiscounted cash flows, and if impaired,
written-down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. This standard also provides a single accounting model for long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale and establishes additional criteria that would have to be met
to classify an asset as held for sale. The carrying amount of an asset or asset group is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset or asset group.
Estimates of future cash flows used to test the recoverability of a long-lived asset or asset group must incorporate the entity s own assumptions about its use of the asset or asset group and must factor in all available evidence. SFAS 144
requires that long-lived assets be tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Such events include significant under-performance relative to the expected
historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of use of the assets; significant negative industry or economic trends and significant changes in market capitalization.       Foreign Currency Translation    The majority of the Company s business is transacted in U.S. dollars, however, the functional currency of some of the
Company s subsidiaries is their local currency. For the Company subsidiaries that have a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar, gains and losses resulting from the translation of the functional currency into U.S. dollars for financial
statement presentation are not included in determining net income but are accumulated in the cumulative translation adjustment account as a separate component of shareholders  equity (accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)), in
accordance with SFAS No. 52,  Foreign Currency Translation . Cumulative translation adjustments are not adjusted for income taxes as they relate to indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. Gains and losses resulting from foreign
currency transactions are included in the determination of net income. Net exchange and transaction losses were $0.6 million, $0.1 million, and $0.6 million, for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
      Revenue Recognition    The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 104,  Revenue
Recognition  ( SAB 104 ). The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, the collectibility is reasonably
assured, and it has completed its equipment installation obligations and received customer acceptance, or is otherwise released from its installation or customer acceptance obligations. In the event terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer
acceptance period, revenue is recognized based upon the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first. The Company s standard terms are Ex Works (K S factory), with title transferring to its
customer at the Company s loading dock or upon embarkation. The Company does have a small percentage of sales with other terms, and revenue is recognized in accordance with the terms of the related customer purchase order. Revenue related to
services is generally recognized upon performance of the services requested by a customer order. Revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a term more than one month is recognized on a prorated straight-line basis over the term of the
contract.      Shipping and handling costs billed to customers are recognized in net revenue. Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales.
      Research and Development  - The Company charges all research and development costs associated with the development of new products to expense when
incurred.       Income Taxes  - Deferred income taxes are determined using the liability method in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for
Income Taxes . No provision is made for U.S. income taxes on the portion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred
tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return
positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are subject to challenge and that we may not succeed. We are currently subject to multiple tax audits and we believe that it is unlikely that the result of any of these audits would
result in expense greater than our reserves. An adverse finding could result in a significant cash outlay.       Environmental Expenditures    Future
environmental remediation expenditures are recorded in operating expenses when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Accrued liabilities do not include claims against third
parties and are not discounted.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

    Earnings Per Share  Earnings per share are calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 128,  Earnings Per
Share . Basic earnings per share include only the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share include the weighted average number of common shares and the dilutive effect of stock options and
other potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period, when such instruments are dilutive.       Variable Interest Entities  In
accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Interpretation No. 46,  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51,  certain variable interest entities are to be
consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support from other parties. Effective October 1, 2003, the Company identified a business enterprise that qualified as a variable interest entity and consolidated the entity (the  VIE ) into the
Company s financial statements beginning with the quarter ending December 31, 2003. In fiscal 2004, the consolidation of the VIE , recorded in discontinued operations, increased the Company s assets and liabilities by approximately
$6.0 million. During fiscal 2005, the VIE sold land and a building located in Gilbert, Arizona and subsequently was dissolved. The deconsolidation of the VIE in fiscal 2005 resulted in a decrease in assets and liabilities by approximately $5.8
million and $5.5 million, respectively.       Accounting for Leases    In accordance with SFAS No. 98,  Accounting For Leases  ( SFAS
98 ), the Company accounts for a sale-leaseback transaction involving real estate as a sale-leaseback transaction if the transaction includes the following:       

A normal leaseback, as described in SFAS 98.         

Payment terms and provisions that adequately demonstrate the buyer-lessor s initial and continuing investment in the property.         

Payment terms and provisions that transfer all of the other risks and rewards of ownership as demonstrated by the absence of any other continuing involvement by the seller-lessee.
           Otherwise, the Company accounts for the sale by the deposit method or
as a direct financing arrangement in accordance with SFAS 98.       Extinguishment of Debt    In accordance with APB No.26,  Early Extinguishment
of Debt  ( APB 26 ), gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt are included in income (loss) from operations unless the extinguishment is both unusual in nature and infrequent in occurrence, in which case the gain or loss would
be presented as an extraordinary item.       Equity-Based Compensation    In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R which requires measurement of
all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair-value method and the recording of such expense in the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the adoption of SFAS 123R requires additional accounting changes related to the income
tax effects and disclosure regarding the cash flow effects resulting from share-based payment arrangements. In January 2005, the SEC issued SAB No. 107, which provides supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS 123R. We selected the
Black-Scholes option pricing model as the method to estimate the fair value for awards and will recognize compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The Company adopted SFAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal
2006. (See Note 8 to these consolidated financial statements).       Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In February 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-4,  Classification of Options and Similar Instruments Issued as Employee Compensation That Allow
for Cash Settlement upon the Occurrence of a Contingent Event . This position amends SFAS 123R to incorporate that a cash settlement feature that can be exercised only upon the occurrence of a contingent event that is outside the employee s
control does not meet certain conditions in SFAS 123R until it becomes probable that the event will occur. The guidance in this FASB Staff Position shall be applied upon the initial adoption of Statement 123R. The Company adopted SFAS 123R in the
first quarter of fiscal 2006. (See Note 8 to these consolidated financial statements).         
   55   

Table of Contents  

   The Company also adopted the following accounting pronouncements in fiscal 2006:       

FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 ( FIN 47 ) .
       The adoption of SFAS 151, SFAS 153 and FIN 47 did not have a material impact on the Company s results of operations and financial
condition.      In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  ( SFAS 154 ), which replaces APB
Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes,  and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements   An Amendment of APB Opinion No. 28 . SFAS 154 provides guidance on the accounting for and reporting
of accounting changes and error corrections. It establishes retrospective application, or the earliest practicable date, as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle and restatement with respect to the reporting of a
correction of an error. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We are required to adopt SFAS 154 in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. We do not expect the
adoption of SFAS 154 to have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition      In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,
 Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140 (  SFAS 155  ).  SFAS 155 simplifies the accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments that contain an
embedded derivative that otherwise would have required bifurcation. SFAS 155 also eliminates the interim guidance in SFAS 133, which provides that beneficial interests in securitized financial assets are not subject to the provisions of SFAS 133.
SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entity s first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. SFAS 155 is required to be adopted by the Company in the first quarter of
fiscal 2007. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 155 to have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition.      In March 2006, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets   an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140  ( SFAS 156 ). SFAS 156 requires that all separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities
be initially measured at fair value, if practicable. The statement permits, but does not require, the subsequent measurement of servicing assets and servicing liabilities at fair value. SFAS 156 is effective as of the beginning of an entity s
first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. We are required to adopt SFAS 156 in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 156 to have a material impact on our results of operations and financial
condition.      In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  ( FIN 48 ), an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  ( SFAS 109 ). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS
109. FIN 48 prescribes a two-step process to determine the amount of tax benefit to be recognized. First, the tax position must be evaluated to determine the likelihood that it will be sustained upon examination. If the tax position is deemed
 more-likely-than-not  to be sustained, the tax position is then measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50
percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. FIN 48 is required to be adopted by the Company in fiscal 2008. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of FIN 48 on our financial position and results of operations.      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements . This Statement clarifies the definition of fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value and expands disclosures on fair value measurements. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of
SFAS No. 157 on our consolidated results of operations or financial position.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

   In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when
Quantifying Current Year Misstatements  ( SAB 108 ) .  SAB 108 requires analysis of misstatements using both an income statement (rollover) approach and a balance sheet (iron curtain) approach in assessing materiality and provides
for a one-time cumulative effect transition adjustment. SAB No. 108 is effective for annual financial statements issued for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006. We do not expect the adoption of SAB 108 to have a material impact on
our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.      In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 158,  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132R  ( FAS 158 ) .  FAS 158 requires an employer to: (i) recognize in its statement of financial
position an asset for a plan s overfunded status or a liability for a plan s underfunded status; (ii) measure a plan s assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer s fiscal year;
and (iii) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur. Those changes will be reported in comprehensive income similar to the additional minimum pension liability
adjustment required under FASB Statement No. 87,  Employers Accounting for Pension  s. The requirements listed under (i) and (iii) above are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006, and the requirement
listed under (ii) above is effective as of December 31, 2008. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of FAS 158 on its financial position and results of operations.       Reclassifications       The Company reclassed  Changes in restricted
cash, net  on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows from Cash Flows from Financing Activities to Cash Flows from Investing Activities. The reclassified amount was $(0.4) million and $1.9 million in fiscal 2004 and 2005, respectively.
Management of the Company does not believe this reclassification to be material to the Company s consolidated financial condition or consolidated results of operations. In addition, certain other reclassifications have been made to prior year
balances in order to conform to the current year s presentation.       NOTE 2: DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS       Test Business      During the three months ended April 1, 2006, the Company
committed to a plan of disposal and sold its test business in two separate transactions as follows:       

1.  
  On March 3, 2006, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of the assets and certain of the liabilities of its wafer test business to SV Probe, PTE. Ltd. ( SV
Probe ) for initial proceeds of $10.0 million in cash plus the assumption of accounts payable and certain other liabilities, subject to a post-closing working capital adjustment that was settled in the three months ended July 1, 2006.
Certain accounts receivable were excluded from the assets sold.         

2.  
  On March 31, 2006, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of the assets and certain of the liabilities of its package test business to Antares conTech, Inc., an
entity formed by Investcorp Technology Ventures II, L.P. and its affiliates (collectively  Investcorp ) for initial proceeds of $17.0 million in cash plus the assumption of accounts payable and certain other liabilities, subject to a
post-closing working capital adjustment that was settled in the three months ended July 1, 2006.        We recorded a loss of $0.8 million on
the disposal of our Test business. The Company sold the test business to allow management to strengthen its focus on its core businesses   semiconductor assembly equipment and materials   and explore growth opportunities in these markets.
     As part of the terms of each sale noted above, the associated China-based assets were not transferred to the buyers on the above referenced closing dates,
as neither buyer had a legal entity in China that could accept the transfer of the China-based assets as of the closing date. The China-based assets associated with the sale to SV Probe were transferred to SV Probe in September 2006 and the
China-based assets associated with the sale to Antares conTech were transferred to Antares conTech in December 2006, without additional consideration. In addition, we provided         
   57   

Table of Contents  

   manufacturing and other transition services (invoiced at cost) to SV Probe through September 1, 2006 and are
provided these services to Antares conTech through November 2006.      In accordance with SFAS 144, the financial results of the test business have been
presented as discontinued operations in the condensed consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.      The assets and liabilities of the
discontinued operations are as follows:       
    Operating results of the discontinued operations are as follows:       

(2)  
  Included in the 2004 loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, are Test division and FCT losses of $18.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively.        Due to the existence of assets impairment triggers, during the third quarter of fiscal 2005 the Company performed interim impairment tests on the segment goodwill and
other long-lived tangible and intangible assets. These triggers included the identification of difficulties in the development of new products, challenges in the introduction of these products, and greater than expected losses incurred by the
segment. Based on this impairment analysis, a goodwill impairment charge totaling $51.8 million was recorded to fully write off the goodwill of the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit goodwill was determined by discounting the
projected future cash flows from this reporting unit (the fair value of the reporting unit) and then performing an allocation of this fair value to the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets of the reporting unit, with the
residual representing the implied fair value of the goodwill.      The Company also tested the identifiable intangible assets (other than goodwill) of the
segment for impairment during fiscal 2005 by comparing the carrying value of the identifiable intangible assets to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the segment, in accordance with SFAS 144. Based on these analyses, it
determined that the carrying value of the identifiable intangible assets was not recoverable. As such, impairment charges totaling $48.8 million were recorded during fiscal 2005 to completely write off the customer account and complete technology
        
   58   

Table of Contents  

   assets of the segment. The fair value of the identifiable other intangible assets was calculated using the present value
of estimated future cash flows of the segment.      In fiscal 2004, the Company performed interim goodwill impairment due to the existence of an impairment
trigger, which were the losses experienced in our business. Based on these results and the Company s annual impairment , no impairment charge was recorded in fiscal 2004. The fair value of the reporting unit was based on discounted cash flows
of our projected future cash flows from this reporting unit, consistent with the methods used in fiscal 2002 and 2003. The Company tested its intangible assets for impairment in the March 2004 quarter, as a result of the sale of certain assets of
the operations and recorded an impairment charge of $3.2 million associated with the reporting unit s purchased technology intangible asset. In fiscal 2004 the Company also recorded an impairment charge of $0.1 million associated with the
write-down of manufacturing equipment resulting from the closure of a probe card production facility in France.      The changes in the carrying value of
goodwill and intangible assets, associated with the Company s Test division and included in discontinued operations, appear below:       
     
    The $1.0 million addition in the segment s Complete Technology intangible assets during fiscal 2005 was for a
technology license to be used in the development of new products. The aggregate amortization expense related to these intangible assets for fiscal 2005 and 2004 was $6.2 million and $9.0 million, respectively.      Accrued expenses recorded in fiscal 2006 for obligations associated with the discontinuation of the test business are presented below:         
   59   

Table of Contents  

Flip Chip Business      In February 1996, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with Delco Electronics Corporation ( Delco ) providing for the formation and management of FCT. FCT was formed to license related technologies and to provide
wafer bumping services on a contract basis. In March 2001, the Company purchased the remaining interest in the joint venture owned by Delco for $5.0 million and included FCT in its Advanced Packaging business segment.      In February 2004, the Company sold the assets of FCT for approximately $3.4 million in cash and notes, the agreement by the buyer to satisfy approximately $5.2 million
of the Company s lease liabilities and the assumption of certain other liabilities. The sale included fixed assets, inventories, and intellectual property of the Company s flip chip business. The Company recorded a net loss on the sale of
FCT of $0.4 million. The net sales from FCT in fiscal 2004 were $9.4 million and the net loss from operations was $0.3 million. FCT has been recorded as a discontinued operation in these financial statements.       NOTE 3: GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS       The Company s goodwill
of $29.7 million as of September 30, 2005 and 2006 is included in the Packaging Materials Segment.      Intangible assets classified as goodwill and those
with indefinite lives are not amortized. Intangible assets with determinable lives are amortized over their estimated useful life. The Company performs an annual impairment test of its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets at the end of
the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, which coincides with the completion of its annual forecasting process. The Company performed its annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and no impairment charge was required. The Company
also tests for impairment between annual tests if a  triggering  event occurs that may have the effect of reducing the fair value of a reporting unit or its intangible assets below their respective carrying values. No triggering events
occurred during fiscal 2006 that would have the effect of reducing the fair value of goodwill below its carrying value. When conducting its goodwill impairment analysis, the Company calculates its potential impairment charges based on the two-step
test identified in SFAS 142 and using the estimated fair value of the respective reporting units. The Company uses the present value of future cash flows from the respective reporting units to determine the estimated fair value of the reporting unit
and the implied fair value of goodwill.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

    NOTE 4: ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)       At September 30, 2005 and 2006, the components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, consisted of the following:
      
     NOTE 5: INVESTMENTS       At September 30, 2005 and 2006, all short-term investments were classified as available-for-sale. Investments, excluding cash equivalents, classified as available-for-sale, consisted of the following at September 30, 2005 and
2006:       
    In fiscal 2006, the Company purchased $36.6 million of securities it classified as available-for-sale and sold
$29.8 million of available-for-sale securities. In fiscal 2005, the Company purchased $37.9 million of securities it classified as available-for-sale and sold $55.6 million of available-for-sale securities.       NOTE 6: BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS       Inventories consist of the
following:       
    Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:         
   61   

Table of Contents  

During fiscal 2005, the Company entered into a direct financing arrangement involving the sale and leaseback of
land and a building housing its corporate headquarters in Willow Grove, Pennsylvania. In accordance with SFAS 98, the Company kept the land and building on its financial statements and recorded the cash received of $10.6 million as debt (See Note
7). In the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company exited this Facility and has no continuing involvement in the Facility, accordingly, it recognized a gain of approximately $4.5 million on the sale of the land and building, and the land, building
and remaining debt outstanding were removed from the Company s consolidated financial statements.      Accrued expenses consist of the following:
      
    The Company had restricted cash balances of $2.0 million at September 30, 2006 and $1.4 million at
September 30, 2005. These restricted cash balances were used to support letters of credit.       NOTE 7: DEBT OBLIGATIONS       Long-term debt at September 30, 2005 and 2006 consisted of the following:       
    In the first half of fiscal year 2004, we issued $205.0 million of 0.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes in a
private placement to qualified institutional investors. No principal payments are required until maturity on November 30, 2008, the notes bear interest at 0.5% per annum and are convertible into common stock of the Company at a conversion
price of $20.33 per share, subject to adjustment for certain events. The notes are general obligations of the Company and are subordinated to all senior debt. The notes rank equally with the Company s 1.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes
(described below). There are no financial covenants associated with the notes and there are no restrictions on incurring additional debt or issuing or repurchasing our securities. Interest on the notes is payable on May 30 and November 30
of each year.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

   In the second half of fiscal year 2004, we issued $65.0 million of 1.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes in a private
placement to qualified institutional investors. No principal payments are required until maturity on June 30, 2010, the notes bear interest at 1.0% per annum and are convertible into common stock of the Company at a conversion price of
$12.84 per share, subject to adjustment for certain events. The conversion rights of these notes may be terminated on or after June 30, 2006 if the closing price of our common stock has exceeded 140% of the conversion price then in effect for
at least 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading days. The notes are general obligations of the Company and are subordinated to all senior debt. The notes rank equally with our 0.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes. There are no
financial covenants associated with the notes and there are no restrictions on incurring additional debt or issuing or repurchasing our securities. Interest on the notes is payable on June 30 and December 30 of each year.      On February 14, 2006, the Company purchased a portion of its outstanding 0.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes having an aggregate principal outstanding amount of
$52.2 million for consideration consisting of 2.5 million shares of common stock with an aggregate fair value of $29.5 million and $18.7 million in cash. On February 16, 2006, the Company purchased an additional portion of its outstanding
0.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes having an aggregate principal outstanding amount of $22.8 million for consideration consisting of 1.1 million shares of common stock with an aggregate fair value of $13.2 million and $8.0 million in cash. In
accordance with APB 26, the Company recorded a net gain on the transactions of $4.0 million, net of deferred financing cost write-offs of $1.3 million and transaction costs of $0.4 million.       Sale-leaseback  In accordance with SFAS 98, during fiscal 2005, the Company recorded debt of $10.6 million, as part of accounting for a sale-leaseback transaction
as a direct financing arrangement. Monthly lease payments of $0.1 million, which are allocated by the Company to interest expense and amortization of the debt, were paid through May 2006 at which time a gain of approximately $4.5 million on the sale
of the land and building was recognized, and the land, building and remaining debt outstanding were removed from the Company s consolidated financial statements (see Note 6). Interest expense was calculated using the Company s incremental
borrowing rate, which is estimated to be 6.0%.       NOTE 8: SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY        Defined Benefit Pension Plan       The Company issued and contributed 200,000 shares of Company common stock with a fair
value of approximately $1.8 million (based on the market price at the time of contribution) to the defined benefit pension plan in fiscal 2006, 215,000 common shares valued at $1.5 million in fiscal 2005, and 230,000 common shares valued at $2.8
million in fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2007, the Company expects to make a contribution of Company common stock of approximately 10% of the market value of pension assets at the time of the contribution. Employee contributions are neither required nor
permitted.       401(k) Savings Plan       As matching
contributions to the Company s 401(k) saving plan, the Company issued and contributed 215,000 shares of Company common stock with a fair value of approximately $1.9 million (based on the market price at the time of contribution) to the 401(k)
Savings Plan in fiscal 2006, 281,000 common shares valued at $2.0 million in fiscal 2005, and 214,000 common shares valued at $2.3 million in fiscal 2004.       Debt Repurchase       As discussed in Note 7, the Company purchased a portion of its outstanding 0.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes on
February 14, 2006 having an aggregate principal outstanding amount of $52.2 million for consideration consisting of 2.5 million shares of common stock with an aggregate fair value of $29.5 million and $18.7 million in cash. On
February 16, 2006, the Company purchased an additional portion of its outstanding 0.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes having an aggregate principal outstanding amount of $22.8 million for consideration consisting of 1.1 million shares of
common stock with an aggregate fair value of $13.2 million and $8.0 million in cash.       Equity-Based Compensation       As of September 30, 2006, the Company has six stock-based employee compensation plans (the  Employee Plans ) and two director compensation plans (the
 Director Plans ) (collectively, the  Plans ), under which options have been         
   63   

Table of Contents  

   or may be granted at 100% of the market price of the Company s common stock on the date of grant. The Company may
also grant Performance Stock and/or Share Unit Awards from the Company s recently approved 2006 Equity Plan. Each share granted under a Performance Stock or Share Unit Award from this Plan reduces the aggregate number of shares that may be
granted under this Plan by two shares. Options, Performance Stock and/or Share Unit Awards granted under the Plans vest at such dates as are determined in connection with their issuance, but not later than five years from the date of grant and
expire ten years from date of grant. Upon share option exercise or upon attainment of designated performance goals, new shares of the Company s common stock are issued. The Company does not expect to repurchase shares of its common stock in
fiscal 2007.      The Company adopted the fair value measurement and recognition provisions of SFAS 123R, using the modified prospective basis transition
method. Under this method, stock-based compensation expense recognized in fiscal 2006 includes: (a) compensation expense for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of October 1, 2005 (effective date of SFAS 123R),
based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123, and (b) compensation expense for all share-based payments granted subsequent to October 1, 2005, based on the grant date fair value
estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model under the provisions of SFAS 123R. The Company will recognize compensation expense for awards granted after September 30, 2005 on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
     With respect to the accounting treatment of the retirement eligibility provisions of employee stock-based compensation awards, the Company follows the
non-substantive vesting method and recognizes compensation expense immediately for awards granted to retirement eligible employees, or over the period from the grant date to the date retirement eligibility is achieved. Stock-based compensation
expense recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for fiscal 2006 is based upon awards ultimately expected to vest. In accordance with SFAS 123R, forfeitures have been estimated at the time of grant and were estimated based upon
historical experience. If the actual forfeiture rate is lower than had been estimated, additional expense will be recorded.      The following table summarizes
the total stock-based compensation expense resulting from employee stock options included in the condensed consolidated statements of operations:       

Fiscal Year       Ended       September 30,       2006     
 
    (In thousands except for per share data)   

Cost of sales   
      
  $  
  619   
 
    Selling, general and administrative   

2,996   
 
    Research and development   

1,121   

Stock-based compensation expence in continuing operations   

4,736   
 
    Tax effect of stock-based compensation expense   

Effect of stock-based compensation in continuing operations, net of tax   

4,736   
 
    Stock-based compensation in discontinued operations, net of tax   

626   

Net effect of stock-based compensation expense   
      
  $  
  5,362   

Effect on income per share from continuing operations:   

Basic   
      
  $  
  0.09   
 
    Diluted   
      
  $  
  0.07   

Effect on net income per share:   

Basic   
      
  $  
  0.10   
 
    Diluted   
      
  $  
  0.08   
    Prior to October 1, 2005, the Company accounted for the Plans under the recognition and measurement
provisions of APB No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 ), and related Interpretations, as permitted by SFAS         
   64   

Table of Contents  

   123, as amended by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure . No
stock-based employee compensation cost was recognized in the consolidated statements of operations in fiscal years prior to the Company s fiscal 2006, as all options granted under those plans had an exercise price equal to the market value of
the underlying common stock on the date of grant.      The following tables illustrate the effects on net income (loss) and the net income (loss) per share for
the fiscal years ended September 30, 2004 and 2005, as if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 to options granted under the Company s stock option plans. For purposes of this pro forma disclosure, the
value of the options is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and amortized to expense over the options  vesting periods:       
    The fair value of stock options granted to employees was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model
with the following weighted-average assumptions:       
    Expected volatility for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 is based upon historical volatility, implied
volatility of the Company s market traded options, and the implied volatility of the convertible feature of the Company s convertible debt securities. In prior periods, volatility was calculated based solely on the historical volatility of
the Company s common stock. Expected life is based upon historical exercise patterns. The risk-free interest rate is calculated using the U.S. Treasury yield curves in effect at the time of grant, commensurate with the expected life of the
options.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes information concerning outstanding and exercisable employee options for the fiscal years
ended September 30, 2004, 2005 and 2006:       
    As of September 30, 2006, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the number of options that will vest and become
exercisable in the future, historically, on average 15% of options granted have been forfeited.      Intrinsic value of options exercised is determined by
calculating the difference between the market value of the Company s stock price at the time an option is exercised and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of shares. The intrinsic value of options outstanding and options exercisable
is determined by calculating the difference between the Company s closing stock price on the last trading day of fiscal 2006 and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of shares. The total number of in-the-money employee options
exercisable as of September 30, 2006 was 1.8 million. As of September 30, 2006, total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested employee stock options was $4.7 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining
service period of approximately 1.9 years.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding and exercisable employee options at
September 30, 2006:       
    Under the Director Plans, options to purchase shares of the Company s common stock are issued at an exercise
price of 100% of the market price on the date of grant and are issued to each non-employee director on an annual basis. Options to purchase 585,000 shares at an average exercise price of $14.42 were outstanding under the Director Plans at
September 30, 2006, of which options to purchase 417,500 shares were exercisable. In fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, there were 17,000, 10,000 and 10,000 options, respectively, exercised under the Director Plans at an average exercise price of
$6.10, $6.09 and $3.13, respectively.      At September 30, 2006, 13.1 million shares were reserved for issuance and 5.7 million shares were
available for grant in connection with the Employee Plans and 865,000 shares were reserved for issuance and 280,000 shares were available for grant in connection with a Director Plan. Three (3.0) million shares of the 5.7 million shares
listed above as available for grant in connection with Employee Plans are available under the 2006 Equity Plan. Each share award under this plan that is a performance share award, rather than a stock option, will reduce the number of shares
available for grant by two shares.       NOTE 9: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS       The Company has a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all U.S. employees who were employed on September 30, 1995. The benefits for this plan were based on the employees 
years of service and the employees  compensation during the three years before retirement. The Company s funding policy is consistent with the funding requirements of applicable U.S. Federal employee benefit and tax laws. Effective
December 31, 1995, the benefits under the Company s pension plan were frozen. As a consequence, accrued benefits no longer change as a result of an employee s length of service or compensation.         
   67   

Table of Contents  

68   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s pension plan weighted-average asset allocations at September 30, 2005 and 2006 by asset category
were as follows:       

(1)  
  Equity securities include Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. common stock with a fair value of $1.6 million (9% of pension plan assets) and $1.8 million (9% of pension plan
assets) at September 30, 2005 and 2006, respectively.        The Company has adopted an investment policy for its pension plan assets
which emphasizes capital appreciation and, secondarily, dividend and interest income. The Company s primary goal is to grow the pension plan s assets for the benefit of the pension plan participants and their beneficiaries. To achieve
this, the pension plan retains a professional investment advisor and invests pension plan assets in equity and fixed income securities. The Company s investment policy permits investments in, but not limited to, mutual funds, common stocks,
U.S. Government and Agency securities, preferred stock and money market funds and it prohibits investments in, but not limited to, private placements, limited partnerships, venture capital investments and real-estate properties. The Company s
investment policy also prohibits short selling and margin transactions. The Company has the following range of target mixes for these asset classes, which are readjusted quarterly, when an asset class weighting deviates from the target mix, with the
goal of achieving the required return at a reasonable risk level:       

(1)  
  Actual mix may vary from the target mix due to the holding of temporary cash securities to meet short term plan obligations.        Discount rates are established based on prevailing market rates for high-quality fixed-income instruments that, if the pension benefit obligation was settled at the
measurement date, would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the benefit obligations when due. The Company uses long-term historical actual return experiences with consideration to the investment mix of the pension plan s assets and
future estimates of long-term investment returns to develop its expected rate of return assumptions used in calculating the net periodic pension cost.      The
Company contributed approximately $1.8 million (based on the market price at the time of contribution) in Company stock to the Plan in fiscal 2006, $1.5 million in fiscal 2005, and $2.8 million in fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2007, the Company expects to
make a contribution of Company common stock of approximately 10% of the market value of assets at the time of the contribution. Employee contributions are neither required nor permitted.         
   69   

Table of Contents  

   Estimated future benefit payments for each of the next five fiscal years and the following five fiscal years in aggregate
are as follows:       
    The Company s foreign subsidiaries have retirement plans that are integrated with and supplement the benefits
provided by laws of the various countries. They are not required to report nor do they determine the actuarial present value of accumulated benefits or net assets available for plan benefits. On a consolidated basis, pension expense was $1.9
million, $2.4 million and $1.9 million, in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.      The Company has a 401(k) Employee Incentive Savings Plan. This plan
allows for employee contributions and matching Company contributions in varying percentages, depending on employee age and years of service, ranging from 50% to 175% of the employees  contributions. The Company s contributions under this
plan totaled $1.9 million, $2.1 million and $2.3 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and were satisfied by contributions of shares of Company common stock, valued at the market price on the date of the matching contribution.
      NOTE 10: INCOME TAXES       Income from continuing
operations before income taxes consisted of the following:       
       
   70   

Table of Contents  

   The provision for income taxes includes the following:       
    The provision for income taxes differed from the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate
as follows:       
    Undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries for which taxes have not been provided approximate $23.7
million at September 30, 2006. Such undistributed earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations.      Undistributed earnings
approximating $117.0 million are not considered to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. As part of the global restructuring that occurred during fiscal 2006, the Company determined that these earnings would be repatriated during the
domestic net operating loss carryforward period and this taxable income related to these earnings could be offset with net operating losses. Accordingly, as a result of the restructuring, no valuation allowance has been provided against the deferred
tax asset related to these net operating losses that will offset these earnings. This resulted in a decrease in tax expense as a result of the reduction of the valuation allowance. As of September 30, 2006, the Company had provided a deferred
tax liability of approximately $21.5 million for withholding taxes associated with future repatriation of earnings for certain subsidiaries.      On
October 22, 2004 the U.S. Government passed the American Jobs Creation Act. The Act provides for certain tax         
   71   

Table of Contents  

   benefits including but not limited to the reinvestment of foreign earnings in the United States. For fiscal 2006, the
Company could elect, under the Act to apply an 85% dividends received deduction against certain dividends from controlled corporations, in which it is a U.S. shareholder. The Company evaluated the potential benefit under the Act and concluded that
it would not derive a material benefit.      Deferred income taxes are determined based on the differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of
assets and liabilities as measured by the current tax rates.      The net deferred tax balance is composed of the tax effects of cumulative temporary
differences, as follows:       
  
    The Company has U.S. net operating loss carryforwards, state net operating loss carryforwards, and tax credit carryforwards of approximately
$184.3 million, $287.9 million, and $5.5 million, respectively, that will reduce future taxable income. These carryforwards can be utilized in the future, prior to expiration of certain carryforwards in 2009 through 2024.      Of the total net operating losses through fiscal 2006, approximately $5.4 million is attributable to stock option exercises. If the tax benefits associated with our net
operating carryforward are recognized in the future, the amounts attributable to stock option exercises will be recorded as shareholders  equity.      In
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, as part of the income tax provision for the period, the Company recorded a charge         
   72   

Table of Contents  

   of $65.3 million for the establishment of a valuation allowance against its deferred tax asset consisting primarily of
U.S. net operating loss carryforwards. The Company determined that the valuation allowance was required based on its losses, which are given substantially more weight than forecasts of future profitability in the evaluation. No tax benefits were
recorded in respect of U.S. federal and state net operating losses incurred during fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005. In fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006, the valuation allowance was reduced to the extent that net operating losses were utilized against current
year federal and state taxable income. The Company s valuation allowance was reduced by $9.0 million in fiscal 2006 as the result of the utilization of deferred tax assets, for which a full valuation allowance had previously been provided,
to offset current year earnings. As part of the determination made by the Company with regards to future repatriations during the domestic net operating loss carryforward period, the Company further reduced the valuation allowance by $29.1 million
during fiscal 2006. The Company has determined the valuation allowance against US deferred tax assets, particularly the federal and state net operating losses, is still necessary at September 30, 2006 given uncertainty regarding future US
earnings. The Company will continue to evaluate the realizability of all of their deferred taxes and adjust the valuation allowance accordingly. In addition, $3.9 million of the valuation allowance was reduced during fiscal 2005 due to the planned
repatriation of foreign earnings in fiscal 2006.      The Company also has generated losses in certain foreign jurisdictions totaling approximately $17.2
million. Similar to the situation with the U.S. net operating loss carryforwards, realization of the benefit associated with these foreign loss carryforwards cannot be assured and a full valuation allowance has been provided against the deferred tax
assets associated with these carryforwards.      As a result of committing to certain capital investments and employment levels, income from operations in
China, Singapore, and Israel are subject to reduced tax rates, and in some cases are wholly exempt from taxes.      In China, we expect to benefit from a 100%
tax holiday for two years commencing in the first year in which the Company earns taxable income and then a 50% tax holiday for an additional three years. In connection with certain Singapore operations, we expect to benefit from a 100% tax holiday
for 10 years effective February 1, 2000. In Israel, we expect to benefit from a reduced tax rate of 10% through fiscal 2008 provided certain revenue requirements are met. In Malaysia, one of our subsidiaries is wholly exempt from taxes through
2014. As a result of these tax holidays, the Company has received tax benefits of approximately $19.7 million from fiscal 2002 through fiscal 2006.       NOTE 11: SEGMENT INFORMATION       The Company evaluates performance of its segments and allocates resources to them based on income from
operations before interest, allocations of corporate expenses and income taxes.      Beginning in fiscal year 2006, to align its external reporting with
management s internal reporting, the Company no longer includes  Corporate and Other  as a business segment. Costs previously presented separately for this segment, which primarily consisted of general corporate expenses, have been
allocated to the Company s two remaining business segments. The business segments information for fiscal 2004 and 2005 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect this change.      The Company operates primarily in two industry segments: equipment and packaging materials. The equipment business segment designs, manufactures and markets capital equipment, and related spare parts for use in the
semiconductor assembly process. The equipment segment also services, maintains, repairs, and upgrades assembly equipment. The packaging materials business segment designs, manufactures, and markets consumable packaging materials for use on the
equipment the Company markets as well as on competitors  equipment. The packaging materials products have different manufacturing processes, distribution channels and a less volatile revenue pattern than the Company s capital equipment
segment.      The table below presents information about reported segments:         
   73   

Table of Contents  

74   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s market for its products is worldwide. The table below presents destination sales to unaffiliated
customers and long-lived assets by country:       

(1)  
  Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Property, Plant and Equipment, net.           
   75   

Table of Contents  

    NOTE 12: OTHER FINANCIAL DATA       In fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded in Selling, General and Administrative expenses incentive compensation of $9.0 million, $1.6 million and $7.9 million, respectively. Maintenance and repairs expense totaled $1.5 million,
$1.5 million and $1.1 million for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Warranty and retrofit expense was $3.2 million, $1.8 million and $3.1 million for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Rent expense for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 was
$5.4 million, $4.4 million and $4.8 million, respectively.       NOTE 13: EARNINGS PER SHARE       Basic net income (loss) per share ( EPS ) is calculated using the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. The
calculation of diluted net income (loss) per share assumes the exercise of stock options and the conversion of convertible securities to common shares unless the inclusion of these will have an anti-dilutive impact on net income (loss) per share. In
addition, in computing diluted net income (loss) per share, if convertible securities are assumed to be converted to common shares, the after-tax amount of interest expense recognized in the period associated with the convertible securities is added
back to net income. In fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, $1.4 million, $1.7 million and $5.2 million, respectively of interest expense, related to the convertible subordinated notes, was added to the Company s net income to determine the numerator
for the diluted earnings per share calculation.      The table below reconciles Weighted average shares outstanding   Basic to Weighted average shares
outstanding-Diluted :       
     NOTE 14: GUARANTOR OBLIGATIONS, COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND CONCENTRATIONS       Guarantor Obligations      The Company has issued standby letters of credit for
employee benefit programs and a customs bond, and its wire manufacturing subsidiaries have issued a guarantee for payment under its gold supply financing arrangement. In fiscal 2006, the Company renewed its gold supply agreement for a two year term.
This gold supply agreement requires the Company to maintain a credit facility to secure its obligations to the supplier. Accordingly, the Company entered into a credit facility with a bank in an amount up to $20 million. The term of the credit
facility is two years, but it is granted on an uncommitted basis and is repayable on demand. In connection with this credit facility the Company granted the bank a security interest in its assets related to the manufacture and sale of gold wire,
including all gold inventory and all accounts receivable arising from the sale of gold wire and the proceeds thereof. The credit facility contains financial and non-financial covenants, all of which the Company is in compliance. The financial
covenants contain restrictions on the Company s gold wire manufacturing subsidiaries  net worth, ratio of total liabilities to Earnings Before Interest and Taxes and Discontinued Operations, and that subsidiary s ability to pay
dividends.         
   76   

Table of Contents  

   The table below identifies the guarantees under the standby letters of credit as of September 30, 2006:   
   
    Warranty Expense      The
Company s products are generally shipped with a one-year warranty against manufacturing defects and the Company does not offer extended warranties in the normal course of its business. The Company establishes reserves for estimated warranty
expense when revenue for the related product is recognized. The reserve for estimated warranty expense is based upon historical experience and management estimates of future expenses.      The table below details the activity related to the Company s reserve for product warranties which is included in accrued expenses in the balance sheet at September 30, 2004, 2005 and 2006:       
    Other Commitments and Contingencies      The Company orders inventory components in the normal course of its business. A portion of these orders are non-cancelable and a portion have varying penalties and charges in the event of cancellation. The total
amount of the Company s inventory purchase commitments, which do not appear on the consolidated balance sheet, as of September 30, 2006 was $27.9 million.      The Company has obligations under various operating leases, primarily for manufacturing and office facilities, which expire periodically through 2018. Minimum rental commitments under these leases (excluding taxes,
insurance, maintenance and repairs, which are also paid by the Company), are as follows: $5.0 million in fiscal 2007; $4.4 million in fiscal 2008; $2.7 million in fiscal 2009; $2.3 million in 2010 and $16.4 million thereafter.      In September 2004, the tax authority in Singapore notified the Company that it believes Goods and Services Tax in the amount of $3.3 million is owed on the return of
gold scrap to the Company s former gold supplier over the period from 1998 to 2004. The Company does not agree with this assessment and has filed an objection. Discussions between the Company and the Singapore tax authority are ongoing. In the
event the Company is unsuccessful in its objection and subsequent appeal, if necessary, the Company believes it will recover the cost from its former gold supplier. For these reasons, no accrual for this contingency has been included in the
Company s financial statements. The Company believes that resolution of this matter may take two to three years.         
   77   

Table of Contents  

   From time to time, third parties assert that the Company is, or may be, infringing or misappropriating their intellectual
property rights. In such cases, the Company will defend against claims or attempt to negotiate licenses where considered appropriate. The ultimate outcome of any infringement or misappropriation claim that might be made, however, is uncertain and
the Company cannot assure you that the resolution of any such claim will not materially and adversely affect the Company s business, financial condition and operating results.      Concentrations      Sales to a relatively small number of customers account for a significant percentage of the Company s
net sales. In fiscal 2006, sales to Advanced Semiconductor Engineering and ST Microelectronics accounted for 17% and 12%, respectively, of the Company s net sales. In fiscal 2005, sales to Advanced Semiconductor Engineering and ST
Microelectronics accounted for 15% and 12%, respectively, of the Company s net sales. The Company expects that sales of its products to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of net sales for the
foreseeable future. At September 30, 2006 Advanced Semiconductor Engineering and ST Microelectronics accounted for 20% and 12%, respectively of total accounts receivable. At September 30, 2005 Advanced Semiconductor Engineering and
Siliconware Precision Industries accounted for 15% and 14%, respectively of total accounts receivable. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of total accounts receivable at September 30, 2006 and 2005. The reduction or loss of orders
from a significant customer could adversely affect the Company s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.      The Company relies
on subcontractors to manufacture to the Company s specifications many of the components or subassemblies used in its products. Certain of the Company s products require components or parts of an exceptionally high degree of reliability,
accuracy and performance for which there are only a limited number of suppliers or for which a single supplier has been accepted by the Company as a qualified supplier.         
   78   

Table of Contents  

    NOTE 15: SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (unaudited)       Selected quarterly financial information follows:       

(1)  
  Represents net sales less costs and expenses but before net interest expense and other income.     

(2)  
  Reflects the Company s test business and includes goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $100.6        million in the third quarter of fiscal 2005.   

(3)  
  Earnings per share for the year may not equal the sum of quarterly earnings per share due to changes in weighted        average share calculations.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

(4)  
  Includes the following cumulative adjustment to correct immaterial errors in the consolidated statements of operations (see Note 1).         
     NOTE 16: SUBSEQUENT EVENTS       On November 3, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of Alphasem, a leading supplier of die bonder equipment, from Dover Technologies International, Inc., a subsidiary of Dover Corporation. The
consideration for the acquisition was approximately $27.1 million in cash, after a working capital adjustment and subject to further post closing adjustments. Alphasem will be integrated into the Company s equipment segment.       
  Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.       None.       
  Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.        Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures       We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that the Company files or submits
under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the  Exchange Act ) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and
communicated to the Company s management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.      Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the
Exchange Act) as of September 30, 2006 pursuant to Rule 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act. Management necessarily applied its judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures that, by their nature, can provide
only reasonable assurance regarding management s control objectives. Management does not expect that its disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all errors and fraud. A control system, irrespective of how well it is designed and
operated, can only provide reasonable assurance, and cannot guarantee that it will succeed in its stated objectives.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

   Based on their evaluation, our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective because of the material weakness described below in Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. In light of the material weakness described below, we
performed additional procedures designed to ensure that our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. Accordingly, management believes that the
consolidated financial statements included in this report fairly present, in all material respects, the Company s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented.       Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). The Company s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of
America. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, and that
receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006. In making its evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, management used the criteria
described in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ).      A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be
prevented or detected. As of September 30, 2006, the Company did not have effective controls over the processes associated with the reconciliation and analysis of certain account balances. Specifically, the Company did not ensure the general ledger
for certain balances was accurately and completely reconciled with the subledgers or other supporting documentation. As a result of this deficiency, during fiscal 1999 through 2005, certain accounts payable and accrual balances were overstated and
the Company s earnings were understated. These misstatements were reflected in the Company s financial statements through June 2006. The overstatement of the balances was identified and corrected in the quarter ended September 2006, and
was not material to the Company s financial statements. This control deficiency could have resulted in a material misstatement of certain balance sheet accounts and related income statement accounts in our annual or interim consolidated
financial statements that would not be prevented or detected in a timely manner. Accordingly, management determined that this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness as of September 30, 2006.      Because of this material weakness, management concluded that the Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2006, based on the criteria in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited management s assessment of the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 as stated in their report, which is included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

    Change in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       We have implemented or intend to implement during fiscal 2007, the following measures to remediate the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting noted in Item 9A(b) above:       

Added resources in our corporate accounting function (completed November 2006);         

Improving our monthly accounting close by increasing the review of balance sheet account reconciliations;         

Strengthening corporate level processes to improve oversight of balance sheet accounts;         

Developing additional system-generated reports to identify potential reconciling items on a more timely basis; and         

Increasing training of key financial personnel at all locations within the Company.        As of September 30, 2006, our remediation efforts related to the material weakness which existed as of September 30, 2006 were not complete. Our efforts to remediate the material weakness will continue
during fiscal 2007.       
  Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION.       None.       
  PART III        
  Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.       Information required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K
with respect to the directors will appear under the heading  ELECTION OF DIRECTORS  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting, which information is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by
Item 401 of Regulation S-K with respect to executive officers appears at the end of Part I, Item 1 of this report under the heading  Executive Officers of the Company.  The other information required by Item 401 of
Regulation S-K will appear under the heading  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting, which information is incorporated herein by reference.      The information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K will appear under the heading  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting, which information is incorporated herein by reference.      The information
required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K will appear under the heading  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE - Code of Ethics  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
     The information required by Item 407(c)(3) of Regulation will appear under the headings  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nominating and Governance
Committee  and  SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALS  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting, which information is incorporated herein by reference.      The information required by Items 407(d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K will appear under the heading  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual
Meeting, which information is incorporated herein by reference.         
   82   

Table of Contents  

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.       The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K will appear under the
heading  COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS,  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting, which information is incorporated herein by reference.      The information required by Item 407(e)(4) of Regulation S-K will appear under the heading  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Management Development and Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation 
in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting, which information is incorporated herein by reference.      The information required by Item
407(e)(5) of Regulation S-K will appear under the heading  REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.       
  Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.       The information
required hereunder concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management will appear under the heading  Security Ownership of Certain beneficial Owners  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting,
which information is incorporated herein by reference. The information required hereunder concerning security ownership of management will appear under the heading  ELECTION OF DIRECTORS  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007
Annual Meeting, which information is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this item relating to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included under the heading  EQUITY COMPENSATION
PLANS  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting, which is incorporated herein by reference.       
  Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.       The information required by
Item 404 of Regulation S-K will appear under the heading  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting which information is incorporated
herein by reference.      The information required by Section 407(a) of Regulation S-K will appear under the heading  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
Board Matters  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting, which information is incorporated herein by reference.       
  Item 14.   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.       The information required hereunder will appear under the heading
 AUDIT AND RELATED FEES  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting, which information is incorporated herein by reference.       
  Part IV        
  Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.        

(a)  
  The following documents are filed as part of this report:         

(1)  
  Financial Statements - Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc.:         
       
   83   

Table of Contents  

(2)  
  Financial Statement Schedules:         

II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts     
      
  88   
    All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is
shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.       
       
   84   

Table of Contents  

EXHIBIT NUMBER   
      
     ITEM     
 
  3(i)  
      
  The Company s Form of Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation dated June 14, 2002, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly
period ended June 30, 2002, is incorporated herein by reference.   

3(ii)  
      
  The Company s By-Laws, as amended and restated on November 29, 2005, filed as Exhibit 3(ii) to the Company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30,
2005 is incorporated herein by reference.   

4(i)  
      
  Specimen Common Share Certificate of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc., filed as Exhibit 4 to the Company s Form 8-A12G/A dated September 11, 1995, SEC file number 000-00121, is
incorporated herein by reference.   

4(ii)  
      
  Indenture dated as of November 26, 2003 between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Form 8-K dated
December 5, 2003, is incorporated herein by reference.   

4(iii)  
      
  Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 26, 2003, between the Company and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. as Initial Purchaser, filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company s Form
8-K dated December 5, 2003, is incorporated herein by reference.   

4(iv)  
      
  Indenture dated as of June 30, 2004 between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s quarterly report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.   

4(v)  
      
  Registration Rights Agreement dated as of June 30, 2004, between the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, as Initial Purchaser, filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the
Company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.   

10(i)  
      
  The Company s 1988 Employee Incentive Stock Option and Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated effective March 21, 2003), filed as Exhibit 10(i) to the
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference.*   

10(ii)  
      
  The Company s 1988 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for Non-Officer Directors (as amended and restated effective February 9, 1999), filed as Exhibit 10(vi) to the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1999, is incorporated by reference.*   

10(iii)  
      
  The Company s 1994 Employee Incentive Stock Option and Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated effective March 21, 2003), filed as Exhibit 10(iii) to the
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference.*   

10(iv)  
      
  2004 Israeli Addendum to the Company s 1994 Employee Incentive Stock Option and Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated effective March 21, 2003), filed as Exhibit
10(iv) to the Company s Post-Effective Amendment No.4 on Form S-1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed December 14, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.*   

10(v)  
      
  The Company s 1997 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors (as amended and restated effective March 21, 2003), filed as Exhibit 10(vi) to the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference.*   
       
   85   

Table of Contents  

10(vi)  
      
  The Company s 1998 Employee Incentive Stock Option and Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated effective March 21, 2003), filed as Exhibit 10(ix) to the
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference.*   

10(vii)  
      
  2004 Israeli Addendum to the Company s 1998 Employee Incentive Stock Option and Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated effective March 21, 2003), filed as Exhibit
10(vii) to the Company s Post-Effective Amendment No.4 on Form S-1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed December 14, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.*   

10(viii)  
      
  The Company s 1999 Nonqualified Employee Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated effective March 21, 2003), filed as Exhibit 10(xv) to the Company s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference.*   

10(ix)  
      
  2004 Israeli Addendum to the Company s 1999 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated effective March 21, 2003), filed as Exhibit 10(ix) to the Company s
Post-Effective Amendment No.4 on Form S-1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed December 14, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.*   

10(x)  
      
  Form of Termination of Employment Agreement signed by Mr. Kulicke (Section 2(a) - 30 months), and Messrs. Carson, Salmons, Belani, Griffing, Chylak, Torton, Amweg, Anderson, Hartigan, Lutz,
Mak, and Rheault (Section 2(a) - 18 months), filed as Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2000, is incorporated herein by reference.*   

10(xi)  
      
  The Company s 2001 Employee Incentive Stock Option and Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated effective March 21, 2003), filed as Exhibit 10(xix) to the
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference.*   

10(xii)  
      
  2004 Israeli Addendum to the Company s 2001 Employee Incentive Stock Option and Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated effective March 21, 2003), filed as Exhibit
10(xii) to the Company s Post-Effective Amendment No.4 on Form S-1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed December 14, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.*   

10(xiii)(1)  
      
  Sale and Buyback of Fine Metal Agreement dated June 12, 2006 between Kulicke   Soffa (SEA) PTE LTD, Kulicke and Soffa Global Holding Corporation and AGR Matthey, filed as Exhibit
10.2 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended July 1, 2006 is incorporated herein by reference. (1)   

10(xiv)  
      
  The Company s 2006 Equity Plan, filed as Appendix A to the Company s proxy statement on Schedule 14A for the annual meeting of shareholders on February 14, 2006, is
incorporated herein by reference. *   

10(xv)  
      
  Form of Stock Option Award Letter regarding the 2006 Equity Plan, filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s report on Form 8-K dated October 3, 2006, is incorporated herein by
reference. *   

10(xvi)  
      
  Form of Performance Share Award Agreement regarding the 2006 Equity Plan, filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the Company s report on Form 8-K dated October 3, 2006, is incorporated herein by
reference. *   

10(xvii)  
      
  Acquisition Agreement among the Company, K   S Interconnect, Inc. and Tyler Acquisition Corp. dated January 25, 2006, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s report on Form 8-K
dated January 25, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference.   

10(xviii)  
      
  Asset Purchase Agreement among Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc., K   S Interconnect Inc., Kulicke and Soffa (Suzhou), Ltd., Kulicke and Soffa (Japan) Ltd., Kulicke and Soffa (SEA) Pte.,
Kulicke and Soffa Test Taiwan Co., Ltd., SV Probe Pte. Ltd. and SV Probe, Inc. dated January 25, 2006, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s report on Form 8-K dated January 25, 2006, is incorporated herein by
reference.   

10(xix)  
      
  Master Sale and Purchase Agreement between Dover Technologies International, Inc. and the Company dated as of October 11, 2006, filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s report on Form
8-K dated November 3, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference.   
       
   86   

Table of Contents  

10(xx)  
      
  Facility Letter Agreement dated June 7, 2006 between Kulicke   Soffa (SEA) PTE LTD, Kulicke And Soffa Global Holding Corporation and Citibank, N.A., Singapore Branch, filed as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended July 1, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference.   

10(xxi)  
      
  Agreement to Sell and Purchase Real Estate, dated August 25, 2004, as amended on September 15, 2004, between the Company and Good Mac Realty Partners, L.P. , filed as Exhibit
10(xiv) to the Company s Registration on Form S-1 filed September 30, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.   

10(xxii)  
      
  Agreement of Lease, by and between the Company and 1005 Virginia Associates, L.P., dated June 30, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended June 30, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference.   

10(xxiii)  
      
  Officer Incentive Compensation Plan, dated August 2, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2005, is
incorporated herein by reference. *   

10(xxiv)  
      
  Severance Agreement and General Release, dated March 31, 2006 between the Company and Oded Lender, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s report of Form 8-K dated March 31,
2006, is incorporated herein by reference. *   

21  
      
  Subsidiaries of the Company.   

23  
      
  Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm)   

31.1  
      
  Certification of C. Scott Kulicke, Chief Executive Officer of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc., pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).   

31.2  
      
  Certification of Maurice E. Carson, Chief Financial Officer of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc., pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).   

32.1  
      
  Certification of C. Scott Kulicke, Chief Executive Officer of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc., pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.   

32.2  
      
  Certification of Maurice E. Carson, Chief Financial Officer of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc., pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.   

*  
  Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     

(1)  
  Portions of this exhibit have been omitted based on a request for confidential treatment submitted to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The omitted portions have been
filed separately with the Commission.           
   87   

Table of Contents  

KULICKE AND SOFFA INDUSTRIES, INC.        Schedule II-Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        (in thousands)        

(1)  
  Bad debts written off.     

(2)  
  Disposal of excess and obsolete inventory.     

(3)  
  Reflects the decrease in the valuation allowance primarily associated with the Company s U.S. net operating losses and other deferred tax assets.     

(4)  
  Reflects adjustment of cumulative timing differences.     

(5)  
  Reflects adjustment associated with the Company s foreign net operating losses.     

(6)  
  Reflects the increase in valuation allowance primarily associated with the Company s U.S. net operating losses and cumulative timing differences.     

(7)  
  Reflects reserve against the Company s former test division accounts receivable that were not sold.           
   88   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

KULICKE AND SOFFA INDUSTRIES, INC.   

By:  
     
    /s/ C. SCOTT KULICKE    

C. Scott Kulicke   

Chairman of the Board and   

Chief Executive Officer   

Dated:  
     
  December 14, 2006   
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     
 
    /s/ C. SCOTT KULICKE   

C. Scott Kulicke     (Principal Executive
Officer)   
      
  Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer  
     
  December 14, 2006   

/s/ MAURICE E. CARSON   

Maurice E. Carson  
      
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
     
  December 14, 2006   
 
  (Principal Financial and Accounting  

Officer)  

/s/ BRIAN R. BACHMAN   

Brian R. Bachman  
      
  Director  
     
  December 14, 2006   

/s/ JOHN A. O STEEN   

John A. O Steen  
      
  Director  
     
  December 14, 2006   

/s/ GARRETT E. PIERCE   

Garrett E. Pierce  
      
  Director  
     
  December 14, 2006   

/s/ MACDONELL ROEHM, JR.   

MacDonell Roehm, Jr.  
      
  Director  
     
  December 14, 2006   

/s/ BARRY WAITE   

Barry Waite  
      
  Director  
     
  December 14, 2006   

/s/ C. WILLIAM ZADEL   

C. William Zadel  
      
  Director  
     
  December 14, 2006   
       
   89   

<EX-21>
 2
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Subsidiaries of the Company 

EXHIBIT 21         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY (1)         

Name    
      
     Jurisdiction of Incorporation     
 
  Kulicke and Soffa Global Holding Corporation  
      
  Labuan, Malaysia   

Kulicke and Soffa AG  
      
  Switzerland   

Kulicke   Soffa (Asia) Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   

Kulicke and Soffa (Japan) Ltd.  
      
  Japan and Delaware   

Kulicke and Soffa (Israel) Ltd.  
      
  Israel   

Micro-Swiss Limited  
      
  Israel   

Kulicke and Soffa (Suzhou) Limited  
      
  China   

Kulicke and Soffa Pte , Limited  
      
  Singapore   

Kulicke and Soffa (S.E.A.) Pte , Limited  
      
  Singapore   

AFWH Sub, Inc. (Formerly Circle  S  Industries, Inc.)  
      
  Alabama   

American Fine Wire Corporation  
      
  Alabama   

American Fine Wire, Limited  
      
  Cayman Islands   

Dr. Muller Feindraht AG  
      
  Switzerland   

(1)  
  Certain subsidiaries are omitted; however, such subsidiaries, even if combined into one subsidiary, would not constitute a  significant subsidiary  within the meaning of
Regulation S-X.     

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 3
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM         We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference
in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-111478, 333-82910, 333-128371 and 333-119406) and Form S-8 (Nos. 333-137777, 333-69441, 333-37276, 333-37278, 333-103433, 333-103435 and 333-69445) of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. of our
report dated December 14, 2006 relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule, management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K .        

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 dex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CEO Certification 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, C. Scott Kulicke, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))for the registrant and have:         

a.  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b.  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c.  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d.  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a.  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b.  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: December 14, 2006       

/s/ C. Scott Kulicke    
 
  C. Scott Kulicke   
 
  Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 dex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CFO Certification 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION       I, Maurice E. Carson, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)for the registrant and have:         

a.  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b.  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c.  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d.  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a.  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b.  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: December 14, 2006       

/s/ Maurice E. Carson    
 
  Maurice E. Carson   
 
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CEO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CEO Certification 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION        906 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, C. Scott Kulicke, the Chief Executive Officer of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc., hereby certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

1.  
  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 , which this certification accompanies, fully complies with
the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

2.  
  information contained in the Fiscal 2006 Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc.
       Dated: December 14, 2006        

/s/ C. Scott Kulicke    
 
  C. Scott Kulicke   
 
  Chairman of the Board of Directors and   
 
  Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 7
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 906 CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CFO Certification 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION        906 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Maurice E. Carson, the Chief Executive Officer of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc., hereby certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

1.  
  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, which this certification accompanies, fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

2.  
  information contained in the Fiscal 2006 Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc.
       Dated: December 14, 2006        

/s/ Maurice E. Carson    
 
  Maurice E. Carson   
 
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-32.2>

