<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061211_10-K_edgar_data_70793_0001047469-06-014898_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2695411</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>685612</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3223</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1523048</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>111</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-06-014898.hdr.sgml : 20061211
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061211164213
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-06-014898
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061211
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061211

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			NBTY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000070793
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				112228617
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-31788
		FILM NUMBER:		061268906

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		90 ORVILLE DR
		CITY:			BOHEMIA
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			11716
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5165679500

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		90 ORVILLE DRIVE
		CITY:			BOHEMIA
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			11716

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NATURES BOUNTY INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 VKtH1Fsax6jjWu6GgnXdfgW0mTLHJxh00dvV1k88GShYN1ifbUt3lLYfmAjLKjc0
 0Q10XNjJ0tePCZT0zvmT5A==

 0001047469-06-014898.txt : 20061211

10-K
 1
 a2174922z10-k.htm
 FORM 10-K

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

Commission file number 001-31788     

NBTY, Inc.      (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)   

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of Each Class    
     
   Name of Each Exchange 
on which Registered    

Common Stock, par value $0.008 per share  
     
  New York Stock Exchange, Inc.  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None   

          Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   

  Yes        No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange
Act.          

          Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.   

  Yes        No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K          

          Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of
"accelerated filer and large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

  Large
Accelerated Filer        Accelerated
Filer        Non-Accelerated Filer       

          Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act rule 12b-2).   

  Yes        No    

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant on March 31, 2006, was approximately $1,188,396,000. For
purposes of the foregoing calculation only, all directors and executive officers of the Registrant have been deemed affiliates. The number of shares of Common Stock of the Registrant outstanding at
March 31, 2006 was approximately 67,204,000. The number of shares of Common Stock of the Registrant outstanding at December 4, 2006 was approximately 67,214,000.   

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.            

          Portions of the Registrant's definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which is expected to be filed within 120 days
after the Registrant's fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.   

NBTY, INC.   ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2006   TABLE OF CONTENTS            

Caption      
     
   Page    

PART I   

Forward Looking Statements  
     
  1  

ITEM 1  

BUSINESS  

2  

General  

2  

Business Strategy  
     
  2  

Operating Segments  
     
  4  

Employees and Advertising  
     
  6  

Manufacturing, Distribution and Quality Control  
     
  7  

Research and Development  
     
  8  

Competition; Customers  
     
  8  

Government Regulation  
     
  8  

International Operations  
     
  14  

Trademarks  
     
  15  

Raw Materials  
     
  15  

Seasonality  
     
  15  

ITEM 1A  

RISK FACTORS  

16  

ITEM 1B  

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

23  

ITEM 2  

PROPERTIES  

23  

ITEM 3  

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

26  

ITEM 4  

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

28  

PART II   

ITEM 5  

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

29  

Dividend Policy  

29  

Price Range of Common Stock  
     
  30  

Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans  
     
  31  

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers  
     
  31  

ITEM 6  

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

32  

ITEM 7  

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

33  

Background  

33  

Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies  
     
  34  

General  
     
  41  

Results of Operations  
     
  41  

Seasonality  
     
  54  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  
     
  55  

Indemnification of Officers and Directors  
     
  55  

i  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  
     
  55  

Related Party Transactions  
     
  62  

Inflation  
     
  63  

Financial Covenants and Credit Rating  
     
  63  

New Accounting Developments  
     
  63  

ITEM 7A  

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

66  

ITEM 8  

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

67  

ITEM 9  

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

67  

ITEM 9A  

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

68  

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

68  

ITEM 9B  

OTHER INFORMATION  

70  

PART III   

ITEM 10  

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

70  

ITEM 11  

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

70  

ITEM 12  

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

70  

ITEM 13  

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  

70  

ITEM 14  

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  

70  

PART IV   

ITEM 15  

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCHEDULES  

71  

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules  

73  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
     
  F-1  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
     
  F-3  

Financial Statements  
     
  F-4  

Financial Statement Schedule  
     
  S-1  

Signatures  

Certifications  

Exhibits  

ii  

PART I            

Forward Looking Statements      

             This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Report") contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of NBTY, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company").
Discussions containing such forward-looking statements may be found in Items 1, 1A, 2, 3, 7, 7A and 9A, as well as within this Report generally. In addition, when used in this Report, the words
"subject to," "believe," "expect," "plan," "project," "estimate," "intend," "may," "should," "can," or "anticipate," or the negative thereof, or variations thereon, or similar expressions, and
discussions of strategy, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which are inherently uncertain. All forward looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that
could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. Factors which may materially affect forward-looking statements include: (i) slow or negative growth in the nutritional
supplement industry; (ii) interruption of business or negative impact on sales and earnings due to acts of God, acts of war, terrorism, bio-terrorism, civil unrest or disruption of
mail service; (iii) adverse publicity regarding nutritional supplements; (iv) our inability to retain customers of companies (or mailing lists) recently acquired; (v) increased
competition; (vi) increased costs; (vii) loss or retirement of key members of our management; (viii) increases in our cost of borrowings or unavailability of additional debt or
equity capital, or both; (ix) unavailability of, or inability to consummate, advantageous acquisitions in the future, or our inability to integrate the acquisitions into the mainstream of our
business; (x) changes in general worldwide economic and political conditions in the markets in which we may compete from time to time; (xi) our inability to gain or hold market share of
our wholesale or retail customers anywhere in the world; (xii) unavailability of electricity in certain geographical areas; (xiii) our inability to obtain or renew insurance or the costs
of same; (xiv) exposure to and expense of defending and resolving product liability claims, intellectual property claims and other litigation; (xv) our ability to implement our business
strategy successfully; (xvi) our inability to manage our retail, wholesale, manufacturing and other operations efficiently; (xvii) consumer acceptance of our products; (xviii) our
inability to renew leases for our retail locations; (xix) inability of our retail stores to attain or maintain profitability; (xx) the absence of clinical trials for many of our
products; (xxi) sales and earnings volatility or trends for us and our market segments; (xxii) the efficacy of our internet and on-line sales and marketing strategies;
(xxiii) fluctuations in foreign currencies, including the British Pound, the Euro and the Canadian Dollar; (xxiv) import-export controls on sales to foreign countries; (xxv) our
inability to secure favorable new sites for, and delays in opening, new retail locations; (xxvi) introduction of, and compliance with, new federal, state, local or foreign legislation or
regulation, or adverse determinations by regulators anywhere in the world (including the banning of products) and, more particularly, proposed Good Manufacturing Practices and Section 404
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the United States, and the Food Supplements
Directive and Traditional Herbal Medicinal Products Directive in Europe; (xxvii) the mix of our products and the profit margins thereon; (xxviii) the availability and pricing of raw
materials; (xxix) risk factors discussed elsewhere in this Report; (xxx) adverse effects on us of increased gasoline prices and potentially reduced traffic flow to our retail locations;
(xxxi) adverse tax determinations; (xxxii) the loss of a significant customer; and (xxxiii) other factors beyond our control.   

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We cannot guarantee future results, trends, events, levels of activity,
performance or achievements. We do not undertake, and specifically decline, any obligation to update, republish or revise forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date
hereof, or to reflect the occurrences of unanticipated events.   

             Industry data used throughout this Report was obtained from industry publications and internal Company estimates. While we believe this information is reliable,
its accuracy has not been independently verified and cannot be guaranteed.   

  1  

Item 1.    BUSINESS     

   General     

          NBTY, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the "Company," "NBTY," "we," or "us") is a leading vertically integrated manufacturer, marketer and retailer of
a broad line of high quality, value-priced nutritional supplements in the United States ("US") and throughout the world. Under a number of the Company's and third-party brands, we offer over 22,000
products, including vitamins, minerals, herbs, sports nutrition products, diet aids and other nutritional supplements. We are vertically integrated because we purchase raw materials, formulate and
manufacture our products, and then market these products through our four channels of distribution:   

Wholesale
distribution to mass merchandisers, drug store chains, supermarkets, independent pharmacies and health food stores under various brand names, including Nature's
Bounty , Solgar , Ester-C , SISU  and Sundown  brands;
           Direct
Response/Puritan's Pride, a leading US nutritional supplement e-commerce/direct response business segment, under the Puritan's Pride  brand in
catalogs and through the internet;
           North
American retail operations, including 476 Vitamin World and Nutrition Warehouse retail stores as of September 30, 2006, operating throughout the United States
in 44 states, Guam, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, and 96 Le Naturiste retail stores in Quebec, Canada; and
           European
retail operations, consisting of 549 Holland   Barrett, GNC (UK) and Nature's Way retail stores as of September 30, 2006, operating throughout the
United Kingdom, or UK, and Ireland, and 68 De Tuinen retail stores operating in the Netherlands.    

At
September 30, 2006, we manufactured about 90% of the nutritional supplements we sold.   

          The
Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1979 under the name Nature's Bounty, Inc. On March 26, 1995, we changed our name to NBTY, Inc. Our principal executive
offices are at 90 Orville Drive, Bohemia, New York 11716, our telephone number is (631) 567-9500, and our website is    www.nbty.com   .
Our UK subsidiary, Holland   Barrett Holdings Limited, has its principal executive offices in Nuneaton, UK, and our Dutch subsidiary, De Tuinen, B.V., has its principal executive offices in
Beverwijk, Netherlands.   

          Our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports
filed or furnished under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are available at no cost on our website. We make these reports available
as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").   

Business Strategy     

          The Company targets the growing value-conscious consumer segment by offering high-quality products at a value price. Our objectives are to increase
sales, improve manufacturing efficiencies, increase profitability and strengthen our market position through the following key strategies.   

            Expand Existing Channels of Distribution.        We plan to continue expanding and improving our existing
channels of distribution through aggressive marketing and synergistic acquisitions, to the extent available on terms acceptable to us, to increase our sales and profitability and enhance our overall
market share. Specific plans to expand channels of distribution include the following.   

Increase Wholesale Sales in the US and in Foreign Markets.       We expect to strengthen our wholesale business by
continuing to increase our sales in food, drug and mass merchandising channels by (i) increasing revenues from existing customers through strong promotional activities and aggressive
introduction of new and innovative products, (ii) increasing shelf space in major    
 
  2  

retailers,
(iii) leveraging the advertising and promotion of our major specialty brands, such as Osteo-Bi-Flex , MET-Rx ,
Flex-a-min , Knox , and, most recently, Ester-C , and (iv) continuing to increase our private label revenue with new
customers and timely product introductions. In addition, we continue to seek to form new distribution alliances throughout the world for our products, while strengthening existing relationships.   

Increase Direct Response/Puritan's Pride  Sales.       We expect to continue to strengthen our leading
position in the e-commerce/direct response business by (i) continuing to build brand and customer loyalty across catalog and internet channels, (ii) increasing
e-commerce activity from a variety of online media channels, including search, e-mail marketing, affiliate marketing and shopping portals, (iii) focusing on enhanced
retention and re-activation programs on-line and off-line, while testing new promotions to further improve response rates, (iv) improving the shopping
experience available to our customers with website enhancements and call center system upgrades, (v) improving automated picking and packing to fulfill sales order requests with greater speed
and accuracy, and (vi) increasing manufacturing capability to quickly introduce and deliver new products in response to customer demand. We also intend to continue our strategy of acquiring
customer lists, brand names and inventory of other mail order companies that have similar or complementary products that we believe we can integrate into our operations efficiently, without adding
substantial overhead.
            Increase Retail Sales in North America.       We intend to continue focusing on the development of a nationwide chain
of profitable retail stores in the United States and Canada. To that end, at September 30, 2006, we operated 476 Vitamin World and Nutrition Warehouse retail stores in regional and outlet malls
throughout the United States, and 96 Le Naturiste retail stores throughout Quebec, Canada. We opened nine Vitamin World stores in the United States since October 1, 2005, or approximately 1.9%
of the total number of stores in operation in the United States at September 30, 2006, and closed 75 underperforming stores during the same period. As a result, as of September 30, 2006,
we operated 66 fewer Vitamin World stores than in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005. Although we plan to open ten new stores during the 2007 fiscal year, we may close up to 25 existing
Vitamin World stores during that time. Fifty Vitamin World retail store leases expire during the 2007 fiscal year, and, in an effort to improve Vitamin World's profitability, any store whose lease
cannot be renegotiated on favorable terms may be closed when its lease lapses. We maintain our Savings Passport Card, a customer loyalty program that we believe increases customer traffic and provides
incentives to purchase at Vitamin World stores. The Savings Passport Card also helps us track customer preferences and purchasing trends. At the end of fiscal 2006, we had approximately
seven million Savings Passport Card members.
            Increase Retail Sales in the UK, Ireland and Europe.       We continue selectively expanding the number of our
Holland   Barrett stores throughout the UK. At September 30, 2006, we had 498 Holland   Barrett and 19 Nature's Way stores operating in the UK and Ireland. In fiscal 2006,
Nature's Way opened three new stores, and Holland   Barrett opened seven new stores, converted one GNC (UK) retail store to a Holland   Barrett store and bought back one franchise. We
project that, during the next fiscal year, we will open additional new retail stores in the UK and Ireland.    

At
September 30, 2006, there were 32 GNC (UK) retail stores in operation in the UK and 68 De Tuinen retail stores in the Netherlands, including 21 franchise De Tuinen locations.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to open additional GNC (UK) stores in the UK and De Tuinen stores in Europe.   

            Introduce Innovative New Products.        We consistently have been among the first in the industry to
introduce innovative products in response to new studies, research and consumer preferences. Given the changing nature of consumer demand for new products and the continued publicity about the   

  3  

importance
of vitamins, minerals and nutritional supplements in the promotion of general health, we believe that we will continue to maintain our core customer base and attract new customers based
upon our ability to respond rapidly to consumer demand with high quality, value-oriented products.   

Enhance Vertical Integration.        We believe our vertical integration gives us a significant competitive
advantage by allowing us to (i) maintain higher quality standards while lowering product costs, which we pass on to our customers as lower prices, (ii) respond to scientific and popular
reports and consumer buying trends more quickly, (iii) meet customer delivery schedules more effectively, (iv) reduce dependence on outside suppliers, and (v) improve overall
operating margins. We continually evaluate ways to enhance our vertical integration by leveraging manufacturing, distribution, purchasing and marketing capabilities, and otherwise improving the
efficiency of our operations.   

            Build Infrastructure to Support Growth.        We have technologically advanced,
state-of-the-art manufacturing and production facilities, with total production capacity of approximately 45 billion tablets, capsules and softgels per year.
In February 2006, we completed a 21 million square foot expansion of our softgel facility in Bayport, New York. As a result of this expansion, the Bayport facility's manufacturing
capacity increased by approximately 53% to approximately 8.3 billion softgels per year. We regularly evaluate our manufacturing operations and make investments in infrastructure, as necessary,
to support our continuing growth.   

            Implement Strategic Acquisitions.        In the normal course of our business, we seek acquisition
opportunities, both in the United States and internationally, of companies that complement or extend our existing product lines, increase our market presence, expand our distribution channels, and are
compatible with our business philosophy. We have successfully acquired more than 30 companies or businesses since 1986, enabling us to expand our product lines and scope of distribution significantly.
On October 2, 2006, we acquired Zila Nutraceutical, Inc., and renamed it The Ester C Company. For more information about our acquisitions, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and the Notes to our Financial Statements in this Report. We will continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities across the industry and
around the world.   

            Utilize Management Team Experience.        Our management team has extensive experience in the nutritional
supplement industry and has developed long-standing relationships with our suppliers and customers. Our executive officers have an average of over 20 years in the industry. We will
continue to employ the talent, experience and expertise of our management team to realize our goals.   

Operating Segments     

          We operate in the nutritional supplement industry, focusing our products and services on four segments of this industry: Wholesale/US Nutrition, North American
Retail, European Retail and Direct Response/Puritan's Pride.   

          The
following table sets forth the percentage of net sales for each of our operating segments:   

You
can find more information about the financial results of each segment in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report.   

  4  

Wholesale/US Nutrition.        We market our products under various brand names to many channels of
distribution. We sell our products to leading mass merchandisers, drug store chains and supermarkets, independent pharmacies, health food stores, health food store wholesalers, and other retailers. We
sell Nature's Bounty , Rexall  and Sundown  brands to mass merchandisers, drug store chains, drug wholesalers, supermarket chains and wholesalers. We also sell
directly to health food stores under the Solgar , SISU  and Good 'N Natural  brands, and sell products, including a specialty line of vitamins, to health food
wholesalers under our American Health  brand. Over the past several years, we have expanded product sales to many countries throughout Europe, Asia and Latin America.   

            North American Retail.        At the end of fiscal 2006, we operated 476 Vitamin World and Nutrition
Warehouse retail stores in regional and outlet malls throughout the United States, and 96 Le Naturiste retail stores throughout Quebec, Canada. Each store carries a full line of products, both our
brands and products manufactured by others. Nutritional supplement products that we manufactured accounted for approximately 70% of North American Retail's total sales in fiscal 2006. Our direct
interaction with our retail customers helps us identify regional buying trends, customer preferences, product acceptances and price trends. We use this information in initiating sales programs and new
product introductions for all our divisions. In addition to    www.puritan.com    and    www.vitamins.com   , which
focus on our direct response segment, we also maintain    www.vitaminworld.com   . We designed the     www.vitaminworld.com    site to permit our customers to purchase
nutritional supplements on the internet and to locate our retail stores. This website also
provides information about the products we offer in our retail stores, and an easy and effective way to purchase Vitamin World  products through our e-commerce portal.   

            European Retail.        Our Holland   Barrett, GNC (UK) and DeTuinen subsidiaries generate our
European Retail sales from 498 Holland   Barrett stores in the UK, 19 Nature's Way stores in Ireland, 32 GNC (UK) stores in the UK, and 68 DeTuinen stores in the Netherlands. Holland  
Barrett, one of the UK's leading nutritional supplement retailers, markets a broad line of nutritional supplement products, including vitamins, minerals and other nutritional supplements.
Holland   Barrett stores also sell food products, such as fruits and nuts, and confectionery. Our Nature's Way  product offerings are similar to those of Holland   Barrett.
GNC (UK) stores specialize in vitamins, minerals and sports nutrition products. De Tuinen is a leading retailer of health food products, selected confectionery, and lifestyle giftware. Nutritional
supplement products that we manufactured accounted for approximately 43% of European Retail's total sales in fiscal 2006.   

            Direct Response.        We offer, through mail order and internet e-commerce, a full line of
vitamins and other nutritional supplement products as well as selected personal care items, under our Puritan's Pride  brand names at prices that are generally at a discount from those of
similar products sold in retail stores. Through our Puritan's Pride  brand, we are a leader in the US direct response nutritional supplement industry with more than four million customers
on our customer list, with response rates that we believe are above the industry average. We intend to attract new customers in our direct response operation through aggressive marketing techniques in
the United States and around the world, and through selective acquisitions. We regularly update our mail order lists by adding new customers and deleting those who have not placed orders within a
designated period of time. We believe this maximizes catalog sales while reducing mailing and printing costs. We also advertise in newspaper supplements and conduct insert programs with other mail
order companies to add new customers to our mailing lists and websites, and to increase the average order size. Our use of state-of-the-art equipment, such as
computerized mailing, bar-coded addresses and automated picking and packing systems enables us to process orders quickly, economically and efficiently. Typically, we fill orders within
24 hours of receipt. Our equipment and expertise also lowers our per customer distribution costs, thereby enhancing margins and enabling us to lower our prices. Our     www.puritan.com    and    www.vitamins.com    websites provide a practical and convenient method for consumers
wishing to   

  5  

purchase
products that promote healthy living. Through these websites, consumers have access to more than 1,500 products offered through our Puritan's Pride  mail order catalog.   

          See
Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report, for more
information regarding financial information about the geographic areas where we conduct our business.   

   Employees and Advertising     

          As of September 30, 2006, we employed approximately 10,900 persons, including:   

(i)    2,247
sales associates located throughout the United States in our Vitamin World and Nutrition Warehouse retail stores;
      (ii)    2,840
manufacturing, shipping and packaging associates throughout the United States;
      (iii)    615
associates in administration throughout the United States;
      (iv)    183
associates who sell to wholesale distributors and customers;
      (v)    60
in-house advertising associates;
      (vi)    3,539
associates in our Holland   Barrett operations, including:

(A)    3,106
retail associates,
      (B)    248
associates in distribution, and
      (C)    185
associates in administration;
     
   (vii)    352
associates in our De Tuinen operations, including:

(A)    312
retail associates, and
      (B)    40
associates in administration and warehousing;
     
   (viii)    189
associates in GNC (UK) retail stores;
      (ix)    112
associates in Nature's Way retail stores; and
      (x)    364
associates in Le Naturiste operations, including

(A)    304
retail associates,
      (B)    36
associates in distribution, and
      (C)    24
associates in administration;
     
   (xi)    255
associates in Direct Response operations;
      (xii)    83
associates in SISU operations (including 28 manufacturing associates); and
      (xiii)    90
associates in Solgar international operations.    

In
addition, we sell products through commissioned sales representative organizations. We believe we have satisfactory employee and labor relations.   

For
the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we spent approximately $104 million, $108 million and $85 million, respectively, on advertising
and promotions, including print, media and cooperative advertising. We create our own advertising materials through our in-house staff of associates. In the UK and Ireland, both
Holland   Barrett and Nature's Way advertise on television and in national newspapers, and conduct sales promotions. GNC (UK) and De Tuinen also advertise in newspapers and conduct sales
promotions. In addition, Holland   Barrett and De Tuinen each publish their own magazines with articles and promotional materials. SISU advertises in trade journals and magazines and conducts
sales promotions.   

  6  

Manufacturing, Distribution and Quality Control     

          At September 30, 2006, we employed approximately 2,840 manufacturing, shipping and packaging associates throughout the United States and 28 such associates
in Burnaby, British Columbia. We manufacture in New York, California, Illinois, Florida, Georgia, New Jersey and Canada. We have technologically advanced, state-of-the-art manufacturing and production
facilities, with total production capacity of approximately 45 billion tablets, capsules and softgels per year. In February 2006, we completed a $21 million expansion of our
softgel facility in Bayport, New York. As a result of this expansion, the Bayport facility can produce approximately 8.3 billion softgels per year, or a 53% increase in capacity.   

          All
our manufacturing operations are subject to good manufacturing practice regulations, or GMPs, promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other
applicable regulatory standards. We are subject to similar regulations and standards in Canada. We believe our manufacturing processes are compliant with current GMPs. We manufacture products for our
four operating segments and for third parties. We believe our manufacturing and distribution facilities generally are adequate to meet our current business requirements and our currently anticipated
increases in sales.   

          We
place special emphasis on quality control. We assign a lot number to all raw materials and initially hold them in quarantine, while our laboratory chemists assay them for compliance
with established specifications. Once released, samples are retained, and we process the material according to approved formulae by mixing, granulating, compressing, encapsulating and, sometimes,
coating operations. After a tablet or capsule is manufactured, laboratory chemists and technicians test its weight, purity, potency, disintegration and dissolution, if applicable. We hold the product
in quarantine until we complete this
evaluation, and determine that the product meets all applicable specifications. Generally, when products such as vitamin tablets are ready for bottling, our automated equipment counts the tablets,
inserts them into bottles, adds a tamper-resistant cap with an inner safety seal and affixes a label with lot number and expiration date. We use computer-generated documentation for picking and
packing for order fulfillment.   

          Our
manufacturing operations are designed to allow low-cost production of a wide variety of products of different quantities, sizes and packaging, while maintaining a high
level of customer service and quality. Flexible production line changeover capabilities and reduced cycle times allow us to respond quickly to changes in manufacturing schedules.   

Inventory Control.        We have installed inventory control systems at our facilities that track each
product as we receive it from our supply sources through manufacturing and shipment of each product to customers. To facilitate this tracking, most products we sell are bar coded. Our inventory
control systems report shipping, sales and individual SKU level inventory information. We manage the retail sales process by monitoring customer sales and inventory levels by product category. We
believe our distribution capabilities increase our flexibility in responding to our customers' delivery requirements.   

          Our
purchasing staff regularly reviews and analyzes information from our point-of-sale computer system and makes merchandise allocation and markdown decisions
based on this information. We use an automated reorder system to maintain in-stock positions on key items. These systems give us the information we need to determine the proper timing and
quantity of reorders.   

            Financial Reporting.        Our financial reporting systems provide us with detailed financial reporting to
support our operating decisions and cost control efforts. These systems provide functions such as scheduling of payments, receiving of payments, general ledger interface, vendor tracking and flexible
reporting options.   

  7  

Research and Development     

          We did not expend material amounts for research and development of new products during the last three years.   

   Competition; Customers     

          The market for nutritional supplement products is highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on price, quality and assortment of products, customer
service, marketing support, and availability of new products. We believe we compete favorably in all these areas.   

          Our
direct competition consists primarily of publicly and privately owned companies, which tend to be highly fragmented in terms of both geographical market coverage and product
categories. We also compete with companies that may have broader product lines, larger sales volumes, or both. Our products also compete with nationally advertised brand name products. Most of the
national brand companies have resources greater than we do.   

          There
are numerous companies in the vitamin and nutritional supplement industry selling products to retailers, including mass merchandisers, drug store chains, independent drug stores,
supermarkets and health food stores. Many companies within the industry are privately held. Therefore, we cannot assess precisely the size of all our competitors, or where we rank in comparison to
such privately held competitors with respect to sales to retailers.   

          During
fiscal 2006, two individual customers accounted for the following percentages of the Wholesale/US Nutrition division's net sales:   

Customer A
is primarily a supplier to Customer B. Therefore, the loss of Customer B would likely result in the loss of most of the net sales to Customer A.   

          As
of September 30, 2006, only one individual customer accounted for more than 10% of the Wholesale/US Nutrition division's total gross accounts receivable. Customer B above
accounted for 12% of the division's total gross accounts receivable as of September 30, 2006.   

          While
no one customer represented, individually, more than 10% of our total gross accounts receivable, or our consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2006, the loss of either
Customer A or Customer B would have a material adverse effect on the Wholesale/US Nutrition division if we were unable to replace it.   

   Government Regulation     

            United States.        The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and
sale of our products are subject to regulation by federal agencies, including the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, the United States Postal Service, the Consumer Product Safety Commission,
the Department of Agriculture, and the Environmental Protection Agency or EPA. These activities also are subject to regulation by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in
which our products are sold. In particular, the FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, regulates the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution and sale of
dietary supplements, including vitamins, minerals and herbs, and of over-the-counter, or OTC, drugs. The FTC regulates the advertising of these products, and the Postal Service
regulates advertising claims with respect to such products sold by mail order. The National Advertising Division, or NAD, of the Council of Better Business Bureaus oversees an industry-sponsored
self-regulatory system that permits competitors to resolve disputes over advertising claims. The NAD has no enforcement authority of its   

  8  

own,
but may refer matters that the NAD views as violating FTC guides or rules to the FTC for further action.   

          The
FDCA has been amended several times with respect to dietary supplements, in particular by the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994, known as DSHEA. DSHEA established a
new framework governing the composition and labeling of dietary supplements. With respect to composition, DSHEA defines "dietary supplements" as vitamins, minerals, herbs, other botanicals, amino
acids and other dietary substances for human use to supplement the diet, as well as concentrates, constituents, extracts or combinations of such dietary ingredients. Generally, under DSHEA, dietary
ingredients that were marketed in the United States before October 15, 1994 may be used in dietary supplements without notifying the FDA. However, a "new" dietary ingredient (a dietary
ingredient that was not marketed in the United States before October 15, 1994) must be the subject of a new dietary ingredient notification submitted to the FDA unless the ingredient has been
"present in the food supply as an article used for food" without being "chemically altered." A new dietary ingredient
notification must provide the FDA evidence of a "history of use or other evidence of safety" establishing that use of the dietary ingredient "will reasonably be expected to be safe." A new dietary
ingredient notification must be submitted to the FDA at least 75 days before the initial marketing of the new dietary ingredient. There can be no assurance that the FDA will accept the evidence
of safety for any new dietary ingredients that we may want to market, and the FDA's refusal to accept such evidence could prevent the marketing of such dietary ingredients. The FDA is in the process
of developing guidance for the industry to clarify the FDA's interpretation of the new dietary ingredient notification requirements, and this guidance may raise new and significant regulatory barriers
for new dietary ingredients. In addition, increased FDA enforcement could lead the FDA to challenge dietary ingredients already on the market as "illegal" under the FDCA because of the failure to
submit a new dietary ingredient notification.   

          DSHEA
permits "statements of nutritional support" to be included in labeling for dietary supplements without FDA pre-approval. Such statements may describe how a particular
dietary ingredient affects the structure, function or general well-being of the body, or the mechanism of action by which a dietary ingredient may affect body structure, function or
well-being (but may not state that a dietary supplement will diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat, or prevent a disease). A company that uses a statement of nutritional support in labeling must
possess evidence substantiating that the statement is truthful and not misleading. In some circumstances, it is necessary to disclose on the label that the FDA has not "evaluated" the statement, to
disclose that the product is not intended for use for a disease, and to notify the FDA about our use of the statement within 30 days of marketing the product. However, there can be no assurance
that the FDA will not determine that a particular statement of nutritional support that we want to use is an unacceptable disease claim or an unauthorized version of a "health claim." Such a
determination might prevent us from using the claim.   

          In
addition, DSHEA provides that certain so-called "third-party literature," such as a reprint of a peer-reviewed scientific publication linking a particular
dietary ingredient with health benefits, may be used "in connection with the sale of a dietary supplement to consumers" without the literature being subject to regulation as labeling. Such literature
must not be, among other things, false or misleading, among other things; the literature may not "promote" a particular manufacturer or brand of dietary supplement; and a balanced view of the
available scientific information on the subject matter must be presented. There can be no assurance, however, that all third-party literature that we would like to disseminate in connection with our
products will satisfy all the requirements, and failure to satisfy all requirements could prevent use of the literature or subject the product involved to regulation as an unapproved drug.   

          As
authorized by DSHEA, the FDA recently has proposed GMPs specifically for dietary supplements. These new GMP regulations, if finalized (as predicted to occur in the near future), would
be more detailed than the GMPs that currently apply to dietary supplements and may require, among   

  9  

other
things, dietary supplements to be prepared, packaged and held in compliance with certain rules, and might require quality control provisions similar to those in the GMP regulations for drugs.
There can be no assurance that, if the FDA adopts GMP regulations for dietary supplements, we will be able to comply with the new rules without incurring substantial expense.   

The
FDA generally prohibits the use in labeling for a dietary supplement of any "health claim" unless the claim is pre-approved by the FDA. There can be no assurance that
some of the labeling statements that we would like to use will not be deemed by the FDA to be "unauthorized health or disease claims" that are not permitted to be used.   

          Although
the regulation of dietary supplements in some respects is less restrictive than the regulation of drugs, there can be no assurance that dietary supplements will continue to be
subject to less restrictive regulation. Legislation has been periodically introduced in Congress, including in 2006, 2005 and 2004, to amend the FDCA to place more restrictions on the marketing of
dietary supplements. In addition, Congress has been asked to consider various systems for pre-market and post-market review of dietary supplements to make the regulation of
these products more like the regulation of drugs under the FDCA. The FDA regulates the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling and distribution of OTC drug products under a "monograph" system
that specifies active drug ingredients that are generally recognized as safe and effective for particular uses. If an OTC drug is not in compliance with the applicable FDA monograph, the product
generally cannot be sold without first obtaining the FDA approval of a new drug application, a long and expensive procedure. There can be no assurance that, if more stringent statutes are enacted for
dietary supplements, or if more stringent regulations are promulgated, we will be able to comply with such statutes or regulations without incurring substantial expense.   

The
FDA has broad authority to enforce the provisions of the FDCA applicable to dietary supplements and OTC drugs, including powers to issue a public "warning letter" to a company, to
publicize information about illegal products, to request a voluntary recall of illegal products from the market, and to request the Department of Justice to initiate a seizure action, an injunction
action, or a criminal prosecution in the US courts.   

          The
FTC exercises jurisdiction over the advertising of dietary supplements. In recent years, the FTC has instituted numerous enforcement actions against dietary supplement companies for
failure to adequately substantiate claims made in advertising or for the use of false or misleading advertising claims. These enforcement actions have often resulted in consent decrees and the payment
of civil penalties, restitution, or both, by the companies involved. We currently are subject to FTC consent decrees resulting from past advertising claims for certain of our products. Our subsidiary,
Rexall Sundown, also is currently subject to FTC consent decrees resulting from past advertising claims for
certain of its products. As a result, we are required to maintain compliance with these decrees and are subject to an injunction and substantial civil monetary penalties if there should be any failure
to comply. Further, the Postal Service has issued cease and desist orders against certain mail order advertising claims made by dietary supplement manufacturers, including us, and we are required to
maintain compliance with the orders applicable to us, subject to civil monetary penalties for any noncompliance. Violations of these orders could result in substantial monetary penalties. Civil
penalty actions could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

          In
June 2003, we received a letter of inquiry from the FTC concerning our marketing of a certain weight loss program, as well as the marketing of the Royal Tongan Limu dietary
supplement by our subsidiary, Dynamic Essentials, Inc. ("DEI"). Subsequent to the receipt of this letter, we voluntarily stopped all sales and promotions of the weight loss product in question
and of Royal Tongan Limu. We also ceased all DEI operations and terminated all DEI employees. In October 2005, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York entered a
Consent Decree that required us to pay a $2 million civil penalty, and imposed an injunction that requires us to comply with the terms of a   

  10  

1995
consent order between the FTC and us. We have paid the civil penalty and are complying with the consent order.   

          In
March 2003, we ceased selling products that contain ephedra. Though we continue to believe that the ephedra products we sold are safe to use as directed, the adverse publicity
surrounding ephedra products and the regulatory environment in the United States led us to the decision to cease selling ephedra products, in our best interests and that of our shareholders. Overall,
sales of ephedra products represented an insignificant portion of our business. Subsequent to the decision to cease selling ephedra products, we were named as a defendant or a third-party defendant in
several actions, alleging liability (under various theories, including negligence, false advertising, strict liability in tort and failure to warn) as well as personal injury with respect to our
sales, manufacturing and distribution of products containing ephedra. We have notified our insurance carriers and third-party vendors with regard to each suit and vigorously contest the allegations in
these actions. We did not acquire any ephedra assets, liabilities or operations in connection with our 2003 purchase of Rexall Sundown. All such operations were retained by Royal Numico N.V., the
prior owner of Rexall Sundown. The FDA issued a final regulation on February 11, 2004 prohibiting the sale of ephedra based on the FDA's safety concerns. This final regulation has been
challenged in at least three third-party lawsuits. In one of the lawsuits, a 2005 Utah District Court declared the FDA's rule banning ephedra invalid. The Court of Appeals for the 10 th 
Circuit overturned that case. A petition has been filed with the Supreme Court seeking review of the 10th Circuit's decision. Legislation also has been introduced in Congress to impose a risk/benefit
standard on dietary supplement safety reviews.   

          We
also are subject to regulation under various state, local, and international laws that include provisions governing, among other things, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging,
labeling, advertising and distribution of dietary supplements and OTC drugs. Government regulations in foreign countries may prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of certain
of our
products. Compliance with such foreign governmental regulations is generally the responsibility of our distributors in those countries. These distributors are independent contractors whom we do not
control.   

          In
addition, from time to time in the future, we may become subject to additional laws or regulations administered by the FDA or by other federal, state, local or foreign regulatory
authorities, to the repeal of laws or regulations that we consider favorable, such as DSHEA, or to more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. We are not able to predict the nature
of such future laws, regulations, repeals or interpretations, and we cannot predict what effect additional governmental regulation, when and if it occurs, would have on our business in the future.
Such developments, however, could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping
requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, additional personnel, or other new requirements.
Any such development could have a material adverse effect on us.   

            Europe.        In Europe, the European Union Commission is responsible for developing legislation to
regulate foodstuffs and medicines. Although the government of each Member State may implement legislation governing these products, national legislation must be compatible with, and cannot be more
restrictive than, European requirements. Each Member State is responsible for its enforcement of the provisions of European and national legislation.   

            United Kingdom.        In the United Kingdom, the two main pieces of legislation that affect the operations
of Holland   Barrett and GNC (UK) are the Medicines Act 1968, which regulates the licensing and sale of medicines, and the Food Safety Act 1990, which provides for the safety of food products.
A large volume of secondary legislation in the form of Statutory Instruments adds detail to the main provisions of the above Acts, governing composition, packaging, labeling and advertising of
products.   

  11  

In
the UK regulatory system, a product intended to be taken orally will fall within either the category of food or the category of medicine. There is currently no special category of
dietary supplement as provided for in the United States by DSHEA. Some products which are intended to be applied externally, for example creams and ointments, may be classified as medicines and others
as cosmetics.   

          The
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, or MHRA, now has responsibility for the implementation and enforcement of the Medicines Act, and is the licensing authority for
medicinal products. The MHRA directly employs enforcement officers from a wide range of backgrounds, including the police, and with a wide range of skills, including information technology. However,
the MHRA still relies heavily on competitor complaints to identify non-compliant products. The MHRA is an Executive Agency of the Department of Health. The MHRA decides whether a product
is a medicine or not and, if so, considers whether it can be licensed. It determines the status of
a product by considering whether it is medicinal by "presentation" or by "function." Many, though not all, herbal remedies are considered "medicinal" by virtue of these two criteria.   

          The
Food Standards Agency, or FSA, deals with legislation, policy and oversight of food products, with enforcement action in most situations being handled by local authority Trading
Standards Officers. The large number of local authorities in the UK can lead to an inconsistent approach to enforcement. Unlike the MHRA, local authorities regularly purchase products and analyze them
to identify issues of non-compliance. The FSA answers primarily to Ministers at the Department of Health and the Department of Environment Food and Rural Affairs. Most vitamin and mineral
supplements, and some products with herbal ingredients, are considered to be food supplements and fall under general food law which requires them to be safe. Despite the differences in approaches in
identifying non-compliant products, both the MHRA and local authorities can, and do, prosecute where issues of non-compliance are identified.   

          In
July 2002, the European Union, or EU, published in its Official Journal the final text of a Food Supplements Directive which became effective in the EU at that time, and which
sets out a process and timetable by which the Member States of Europe must bring their domestic legislation in line with its provisions. The Directive seeks to harmonize the regulation of the
composition, labeling and marketing of food supplements (at this stage only vitamins and minerals) throughout the EU. It does this by specifying what nutrients and nutrient sources may be used (and by
interpretation the rest which may not), and the labeling and other information which must be provided on packaging. In addition, this Directive is intended to regulate the levels at which these
nutrients may be present in a supplement. These maximum permitted levels are due to be announced shortly.   

          By
harmonizing the legislation, the Food Supplements Directive should provide opportunities for businesses to market one product or a range of products to a larger number of potential
customers without having to reformulate or repackage it. This development may lead to some liberalizing of the more restrictive regimes in France and Germany, providing new business opportunities.
Conversely, however, it may limit the range of nutrients and nutrient sources substantially, and eventually the potencies at which some nutrients may be marketed by us in the more liberal countries,
such as the UK, which may lead to some reformulation costs and loss of some specialty products.   

          Following
the publication of the Food Supplements Directive, two challenges were brought in the UK Courts attacking its validity. Subsequently, the matters were referred to the European
Court of Justice, or ECJ, for resolution. The ECJ upheld the validity of the Directive, ruling that its contents were legal under European Law. However, due to the ECJ's comments on procedure, the EU
Commission has undertaken to look at ways to ensure the Directive is implemented in a transparent and timely manner.   

          The
provisions of the Food Supplements Directive have been incorporated into UK domestic law (which includes England   Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland) by Statutory
Instrument and apply from August 2005.   

  12  

On April 30, 2004, the EU published the Traditional Herbal Medicinal Products Directive, or THMPD, which requires traditional herbal medicines to be registered in each Member
State in which they are intended to be marketed. A registration requires a product be manufactured to pharmaceutical GMP standards; however, generally, there is no need to demonstrate efficacy,
provided that the product is safe, is manufactured to high standards, and has a history of supply on the market for 30 years, 15 years of which must be in the EU. The THMPD is intended
to provide a safe home in EU law for a number of categories of herbal remedies, which may otherwise be found to fall outside EU law. However, it does not provide a mechanism for new product
development, and would entail some compliance costs in registering the many herbal products already on the market. Member States had to put into place the provisions for national compliance by
October 2005, the date on which Traditional Herbal Medicinal products could begin to be registered. A transitional period of seven years has been granted in the UK to allow all relevant
products to be registered. Full compliance is required by April 2011. While we currently believe that we will comply with this Directive, it has become apparent that we cannot do so without
incurring substantial expense.   

          Additional
European legislation is being developed to regulate sports nutrition products, including the composition of such products. In particular, such legislation could restrict the
type of nutrients we may use in our products. Legislation introducing maximum permitted levels for nutrients in fortified foods is also under discussion together with legislation introducing a
positive list for enzymes. These proposals, if implemented, could require us to reformulate our existing products. Also, proposals to amend medicine legislation will impact traditional herbal
medicines and introduce new requirements, such as Braille labeling, which may lead to higher associated costs.   

The
EU has established a European Food Safety Authority, which will have an important role to play in focusing attention on food standards in Europe. Its Executive Director is
Mr. Geoffrey Podger, who until 2003 was the Chief Executive of the UK's Food Standards Agency.   

            Ireland.        The legislative and regulatory situation in the Republic of Ireland is similar, but not
identical to that in the UK. The Irish Medicines Board has a similar role to that of the UK's MHRA and the Food Safety Authority of Ireland is analogous to the UK's FSA. Like the UK, Ireland will be
required to bring its domestic legislation into line with the provisions of the Food Supplements Directive and the THMPD when the latter is finalized, and, indeed, with the other forthcoming EU
legislation mentioned above. Thus the market prospects for Ireland, in general, are similar to those outlined in the UK.   

            Netherlands.        The regulatory environment in the Netherlands is similar to the UK in terms of
availability of products. The Netherlands currently has the same liberal market, with no restrictions on potency of nutrients. Licensed herbal medicines are available. However, there are some herbal
medicines which are sold freely as in the UK without the need to be licensed, depending on the claims made for them.
The Netherlands also is more liberal regarding certain substances, for which unlicensed sales are allowed. The government department dealing with this sector is the Ministry for Health, Welfare and
Sport.   

          Responsibility
for food safety falls to the Keuringsdienst van Waren (Inspectorate for Health Protection and Veterinary Public Health). This authority deals with all nutritional
products. The Medicines Evaluation Board, which is the equivalent of the UK's MHRA, is charged with responsibility for the safety of medicines which are regulated under the Supply of Medicines Act.   

The
overall market prospects for the Netherlands, in general, are similar to those outlined for the UK above, with the exception of only a four-year transitional period
granted for the registration of Traditional Herbal Medicinal products which are currently on sale in the Netherlands and which fall within the scope of the THMPD.   

  13  

Canada.        The legislative and regulatory situation in Canada is similar, but not identical, to that in
the United States. The manufacturing, packaging, labeling, storage, importation, advertising, distribution, sale and clinical trials of natural health products, called NHP's, and hybrid NHPs, are
subject to regulation by Health Canada, the public health agency of Canada, including, specifically, the Therapeutic Products Directorate, the Natural Health Products Directorate and the Health
Protection and Food Branch Inspectorate. Health Canada regulates NHPs (which include vitamins and minerals, herbal remedies, homeopathic medicines, traditional medicines (such as traditional Chinese
medicines), probiotics and products like amino acids and essential fatty acids) and hybrid NHPs under the Canadian Food and Drugs Act, the Canadian Food and Drug Regulations, the Natural Health
Product Regulations and various Guidance Documents and Policies related thereto. With the exception of homeopathic medicines, products with ingredients required to be sold under prescription are not
natural health products and are regulated as drugs though the regular drug approval process. Similarly, hybrid products comprising drugs are regulated as such under the Canadian Food and Drugs Act and
the Canadian Food and Drug Regulations.   

          Before
January 1, 2004, NHPs for which therapeutic claims were made were regulated as drugs requiring a Drug Identification Number, or DIN. Effective January 1, 2004, NHPs
in Canada became subject to new requirements under the Natural Health Product Regulations. Under these regulations, manufacturers are required to make application for a product license, and the
application must provide specific information including quality of medicinal ingredients, use and purpose of the NHPs, and the supporting safety and efficacy data. These regulations also set out a
regime for site licensing of buildings in which NHPs are imported, distributed, manufactured, packaged, labeled or stored. The primary prerequisite of a site license is that GMP's be employed.
Further, the regulations set out requirements for adverse reaction reporting.   

          As
of January 1, 2004, all new products that are NHPs must comply with the NHP Regulations. For products already marketed in Canada as of that date, transition periods from
January 1, 2004 for compliance with the requirements are provided for. GMP and site license requirements must be implemented in two years and the product license requirement for NHPs with a DIN
(to December 31, 2009) is six years. For NHP's without a prior DIN, products can continue to be marketed and sold in Canada if a product license application was filed on or before
June 30, 2004. However, if the product license eventually is refused, the product might need to be removed from the market in Canada.   

          Health
Canada has adopted a phased-in approach to comply with the NHP Regulations, based on perceived level of risk of the product. All NHP's must comply will all the
regulations by January 1, 2010. We have adopted a phased-in compliance strategy in accordance with the prescribed transition periods. The overall risk factors and market prospects
for Canada, in general, are similar to those outlined in the US. Health Canada can revoke licenses for lack of compliance or if they perceive the product to present an unacceptable level of risk.   

   International Operations     

          In addition to Canada, the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands, we market nutritional supplement products through distributors, retailers and direct mail in more than
75 countries throughout Europe, Central America, South America, Asia, the Pacific Rim countries, Africa and the Caribbean Islands.   

          We
conduct our international operations to conform to local variations, economic realities, market customs, consumer habits and regulatory environments. Our products (including labeling
of such products) and our distribution and marketing programs are modified in response to local and foreign legal requirements and customer preferences.   

          Our
international operations are subject to many of the same risks our domestic operations face. These include competition and the strength of the relevant economy. In addition,
international operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business abroad, including foreign   

  14  

regulatory
restrictions, fluctuations in monetary exchange rates, import-export controls and the economic and political policies of foreign governments. The importance of these risks increases as our
international operations grow and expand. Virtually all our international operations are affected by foreign currency fluctuations, and, more particularly, changes in the value of the British Pound,
the Euro and the Canadian Dollar as compared to the US Dollar.   

          See
Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and the Notes to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this
Report for additional information regarding financial information about the geographic areas in which we conduct our business.   

Trademarks     

            US.        We have applied for or registered more than 2,200 trademarks with the United States Patent and
Trademark Office, or the PTO, for our Nature's Bounty , Vitamin World , Puritan's Pride , Holland   Barrett , Rexall ,
Sundown , Solgar , MET-Rx , WORLDWIDE Sport Nutrition , American Health , SISU  and Ester-C 
trademarks, among others. We also have rights to use other names essential to our business. Federally registered trademarks have a perpetual life, as long as they are maintained and renewed on a
timely basis and used properly as trademarks, subject to the rights of third parties to seek cancellation of the trademarks if they claim priority or confusion of usage. We regard our trademarks and
other proprietary rights as valuable assets and believe they have significant value in marketing our products. We vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement.   

            Canada.        Each of our Solgar, Le Naturiste and SISU subsidiaries owns the trademarks registered in
Canada for its respective names.   

            UK/Ireland.        Our Holland   Barrett subsidiary owns trademarks registered in the UK and
throughout the EU for its Holland   Barrett , and Nature's Way  trademarks and has rights to use other names essential to its business. Holland   Barrett is the
exclusive licensee of the trademarks essential to the GNC (UK) business in the UK. Our Solgar subsidiary also owns trademarks in the UK and throughout the EU.   

            Netherlands.        Our De Tuinen subsidiary owns trademarks registered in the Netherlands or throughout the
EU for its DeTuinen  trademarks and has rights to use other names essential to its business.   

   Raw Materials     

          In fiscal 2006, we spent approximately $312 million on raw materials. The principal raw materials required in our operations are vitamins, minerals, herbs,
gelatin and packaging components. We purchased the majority of our vitamins, minerals and herbs from raw material manufacturers and distributors in the United States, Japan, China, Europe, India,
Canada, Australia and South America. We believe that there are adequate sources of supply for all our principal raw materials. We also believe that our strong relationships with our suppliers yield
improved quality, pricing and overall service to our customers. Although we cannot be sure that our sources of supply for our principal raw materials will be adequate in all circumstances, we believe
that we can develop alternate sources in a timely and cost effective manner if our current sources become inadequate. During fiscal 2006, no one supplier accounted for more than 10% of our raw
material purchases. Due to the availability of numerous alternative suppliers, we do not believe that the loss of any single supplier would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
condition or results of operations.   

   Seasonality     

          Although we believe that our business is not seasonal in nature, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, a variation in net sales and operating
results from quarter to quarter. We   

  15  

believe
that the factors which influence this variability of quarterly results include general economic and industry conditions that affect consumer spending, changing consumer demands and current
news on nutritional supplements, the timing of our introduction of new products, the level of consumer acceptance of each new product, the seasonality of some of the markets in which we participate,
and actions of competitors. Accordingly, a comparison of our results of operations from consecutive periods is not necessarily meaningful, and our results of operations for any period are not
necessarily indicative of future performance. Additionally, we may experience higher net sales in a quarter depending upon when we engage in significant promotional activities.   

   Item 1A. RISK FACTORS     

   Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our products and any similar products distributed by other companies could have a material adverse effect on our business.     

          We believe the nutritional supplement market is highly dependent upon consumer perception regarding the safety, efficacy and quality of nutritional supplements
generally, as well as products distributed specifically by us. Consumer perception of our products can be significantly influenced by scientific research or findings, national media attention and
other publicity regarding the consumption of nutritional supplements. There can be no assurance that future scientific research, findings or publicity will be favorable to the nutritional supplement
market or any particular product, or consistent with earlier favorable research, findings or publicity. Future research reports, findings or publicity that are perceived as less favorable than, or
that question, such earlier research reports, findings or publicity could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business, results of operations, financial condition and
cash flows. Because of our dependence upon consumer perceptions, adverse scientific research reports, findings or publicity, whether or not accurate, could have a material adverse effect on us, the
demand for our products, and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, adverse publicity regarding the safety, efficacy and quality of nutritional supplements
in general, or our products specifically, or associating the consumption of nutritional supplements with illness, could have such a material adverse effect. Such adverse publicity could arise even if
the adverse effects associated with such products resulted from consumers' failure to consume such products appropriately or as directed.   

   Complying with new and existing government regulation, both in the US and abroad, could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our financial results.     

          The processing, formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by several US
federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Department of Agriculture and the EPA, as well as various state, local and international laws and agencies of
the localities in which our products are sold, including Health Canada in Canada, the Food Standards Agency and the Department of Health in the UK and similar regulators in Ireland and the
Netherlands. Government regulations may prevent or delay the introduction or require the reformulation of our products. Some agencies, such as the FDA, could require us to remove a particular product
from the market, delay or prevent the import of raw materials for the manufacture of our products, or otherwise disrupt the marketing of our products. Any such government actions would result in
additional costs to us, including lost revenues from any additional products that we are required to remove from the market, which could be material. Any such government actions could also lead to
liability, substantial costs and reduced growth prospects. Moreover, there can be no assurance that new laws or regulations imposing more stringent regulatory requirements on the dietary supplement
industry will not be enacted or issued.   

          We
currently are subject to FTC consent decrees and a US Postal Service consent order, prohibiting certain advertising claims for certain of our products. A determination that we have
violated   

  16  

of
these orders could result in substantial monetary penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.   

Additional
or more stringent regulations of dietary supplements and other products have been considered from time to time. These developments could require reformulation of certain
products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain
products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. These developments also could increase our costs significantly. For
example, legislation was pending in Congress in 2004 to impose substantial new regulatory requirements for dietary supplements, including adverse event reporting, post market surveillance
requirements, FDA reviews of dietary supplement ingredients, safety testing and records inspection. Key members of Congress and the dietary supplement industry indicated that they reached an agreement
to support legislation requiring adverse event reporting. Legislation was introduced in 2005 to impose a risk/benefit standard for assessing the safety of dietary supplements and to require
manufacturers who sell dietary supplements containing stimulants on military installations to report serious adverse events for the products to the FDA. If enacted, such legislation could raise our
costs and negatively impact our business. In addition, we expect that the FDA soon will issue final rules on Good Manufacturing Practice creating new requirements for manufacturing, packaging, or
holding dietary ingredients and dietary supplements, which will apply to the products we manufacture. We may not be able to comply with the new rules without incurring additional expenses, which could
be significant. See Item 1, "Business Government Regulation" for additional information.   

          In
Europe, the enactment of legislation that could significantly impact the formulation and marketing of our products is anticipated. For example, in accordance with the Nutritional
Supplements Directive, maximum permitted levels for vitamin and mineral supplements are likely to be introduced shortly. European legislation regulating food supplements other than vitamins and
minerals is also expected to be introduced by 2007. The introduction of these anticipated legislations could require us to reformulate our existing products to meet the new standards and, in some
cases, may lead to some products being discontinued.   

          It
also is anticipated that the Nutrition and Health Claims Regulation will be implemented in January 2007. Once enacted, this legislation will harmonize the types of claims that
can be made for foodstuffs (including supplements) in Europe. Although this Regulation may make the European market more accessible, it also will introduce a number of prohibitions which will impact
the claims that can be made for our products. In particular, certain claims will be prohibited unless certain conditions are met and, in certain circumstances, prior approval of the claims will be
required. It also is anticipated that the legislation will prohibit certain claims for general well-being, behavioral functions, weight-loss and professional product
endorsement.   

          In
addition, an EU Directive governing product safety came into force at the beginning of 2004. This legislation requires manufacturers to notify regulators as soon as they know that a
product is unsafe and gives regulators in each European Member State the power to order a product recall and, if necessary, instigate the product recall themselves. As a result, the number of product
recalls in Europe has increased substantially and the likelihood that we will be subject to a product recall in Europe has increased. A product recall of any of our products in Europe could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.   

   We may be exposed to legal proceedings instigated by regulators abroad which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating income.     

          In Europe, non-compliance with relevant legislation can result in regulators bringing administrative or, in some cases, criminal proceedings. In the
UK, it is common for regulators to prosecute retailers and manufacturers for non-compliance with legislation governing foodstuffs and medicines. Failures by   

  17  

us
or our subsidiaries to comply with applicable legislation could occur from time to time and prosecution for any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Item 1, "Business Government Regulation" for additional information.   

   We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating income.     

          As a retailer, marketer and manufacturer of products designed for human consumption, we are subject to product liability claims if the use of our products is
alleged to have resulted in injury. Our products consist of vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are classified as foods or dietary supplements and, in most cases, are not necessarily
subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the United States. Our products could contain contaminated substances, and some of our products contain innovative ingredients that do not have
long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. In addition, some of the products we sell are produced by
third-party manufacturers. As a marketer of products manufactured by third parties, we also may be liable for various product liability claims for products we do not manufacture. We have been in the
past, and in the future, may be, subject to various product liability claims, including, among others, that our products include inadequate instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning
possible side effects and interactions with other substances. For example, we have been named in certain pending cases involving the sale of certain nutrition bars, products that contain certain
prohormone ingredients and our sales of products containing ephedra. See Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." A product liability claim against us could result in
increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
flows.   

   Insurance coverage, even where available, may not be sufficient to cover losses we may incur.     

          Our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities arising out of our operations. For example, we may be liable for claims brought by users of our products or by
employees, customers or other third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations. We seek to minimize these risks through various insurance contracts from
third-party insurance carriers. However, our insurance coverage is subject to large individual claim deductibles, individual claim and aggregate policy limits, and other terms and conditions. We
retain an insurance risk for the deductible portion of each claim and for any gaps in insurance coverage. We do not view insurance, by itself, as a material mitigant to these business risks.   

          Our
estimate of retained-insurance liabilities is subject to change as new events or circumstances develop that might materially impact the ultimate cost to settle these losses. We
cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover our losses. Any losses that are not completely covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results
of operations, financial condition and cash flows.   

   The insurance industry has become more selective in offering some types of coverage and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future.     

          The insurance industry has become more selective in offering some types of insurance, such as product liability, product recall, property and directors' and
officers' liability insurance ("D O"). We were able to obtain these insurance coverages through July 1, 2007 (except D O, which expires July 15, 2007), and our current insurance program
is consistent with both our past level of coverage and our risk management policies. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain comparable insurance coverage at favorable terms, or
at all, in the future.   

  18  

If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs, and our business reputation could be adversely affected.     

          We may be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our products are alleged to cause injury or illness, or if we are alleged to have violated
governmental regulations. A product recall could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which would reduce operating profit and cash flow. In addition, a product recall may require
significant management attention. Product recalls may hurt the value of our brands and lead to decreased demand for our products. Product recalls also may lead to increased scrutiny by federal, state
or international regulatory agencies of our operations and increased litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See
"Complying with new and existing government regulation, both in the US and abroad, could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our financial results" above.   

Our operations in international markets expose us to certain risks.     

          We may experience difficulty entering new international markets due to greater regulatory barriers, the necessity of adapting to new regulatory systems and
problems related to entering new markets with different cultural bases and political systems. As of September 30, 2006, we operated 713 retail stores outside of the United States. In addition,
we had significant wholesale sales outside of the United States. For fiscal 2006, approximately 39% of our net sales were generated in international markets. These international operations expose us
to certain risks, including, among other things:   

changes
in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may limit our ability to sell certain products or repatriate profits to the United States;
           exposure
to currency fluctuations;
           potential
imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions or increased tariffs;
           difficulty
in collecting international accounts receivable;
           potentially
longer payment cycles;
           difficulties
in enforcement of contractual obligations and intellectual property rights;
           national
and regional labor strikes;
           increased
costs in maintaining international manufacturing and marketing efforts;
           geographic
time zone, language and cultural differences between personnel in different areas of the world; and
           political
instability.    

As
we continue to expand our international operations, these and other risks associated with international operations are likely to increase. See Item 1,
"Business Business Strategy" and "Business Government Regulation."   

   We may not be successful in our future acquisition endeavors, if any, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.     

          Historically, we have engaged in substantial acquisition activity. We may be unable to identify suitable targets, opportunistic or otherwise, for acquisition in
the future. If we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition would depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain financing on
acceptable terms and to comply with the restrictions contained in our debt agreements. If we need to obtain our lenders' consent to an acquisition, they may   

  19  

condition
their consent on our compliance with additional restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. Acquisitions involve risks, including:   

risks
associated with integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate technologies and personnel of acquired companies;
           managing
geographically dispersed operations;
           diversion
of management's attention from other business concerns;
           the
inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience;
           unknown
risks; and
           the
potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies.    

We
may not integrate successfully any businesses or technologies we acquire in the future and may not achieve anticipated operating efficiencies and effective coordination of sales and
marketing and financial reporting benefits as well as revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. Acquisitions may impact our results of
operations negatively as a result of, among other things, the incurrence of debt.   

   We are dependent on our executive officers and other key personnel, and we may not be able to pursue our current business strategy effectively if we lose them.     

          Our continued success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and certain other key employees. Our ability to manage our
operations and meet our business objectives could be affected adversely if, for any reason, these officers or employees do not remain with us.   

   Two of our customers account for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of one or both of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.     

          Two of the customers of our Wholesale/US Nutrition segment accounted for, individually, more than 10% of that segment's sales in fiscal 2006. One of those
customers accounted for 12% of our Wholesale/US Nutrition segment's total gross accounts receivable as of September 30, 2006. We do not have long-term contracts with either
customer. One of these customers is primarily a supplier to the other customer; therefore, changes in our business relationship with either customer would likely result in the loss of most of the net
sales to both customers. While no one customer represented individually more than 10% of our consolidated net sales or total gross accounts receivable, the loss of either one of these customers would
have a material adverse effect on our Wholesale/US Nutrition segment if we were unable to replace that customer. In addition, our results of operations and ability to service our debt obligations
would be impacted negatively to the extent that one or both of the customers are unable to make payments or do not make timely payments on outstanding accounts receivables.   

   We are dependent on certain third-party suppliers.     

          We purchase from third-party suppliers certain important ingredients and raw materials. The principal raw materials required in our operations are vitamins,
minerals, herbs, gelatin and packaging components. We purchase the majority of our vitamins, minerals and herbs from bulk manufacturers and distributors in the US, Japan, China, Europe, India, Canada,
Australia and South America. Although raw materials are available from numerous sources, an unexpected interruption of supply or material increases in the price of raw materials, for any reason, such
as regulatory requirements, import restrictions, loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, war or other events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations, financial condition and cash flows.   

  20  

We rely on our manufacturing operations to produce the vast majority of the nutritional supplements that we sell, and disruptions in our manufacturing system or losses of
manufacturing certifications could affect our results of operations adversely.     

          We manufacture the vast majority of the nutritional supplements that we sell. We currently have manufacturing facilities in New York, California, Florida,
Georgia, New Jersey, Arizona, Illinois and Canada. All our domestic manufacturing operations are subject to GMPs promulgated by the FDA and other applicable regulatory standards. We are subject to
similar regulations and standards in Canada. Any significant disruption in our operations at any of these facilities, including any disruption due to any regulatory requirement, could affect our
ability to respond quickly to changes in consumer demand and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.   

   We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our market share, financial condition and growth prospects.     

          The vitamin and nutritional supplements industry is a large and growing industry, which is highly fragmented in terms of both geographical market coverage and
product categories. The market for vitamins and other nutritional supplements is highly competitive in all our channels of distribution. We compete with companies which may have broader product lines
or larger sales volumes, or both, than we do, and our products also compete with nationally advertised brand name products. Most of the national brand companies have resources greater than ours.
Numerous companies compete with us in the development, manufacture and marketing of vitamins and nutritional supplements worldwide. In addition, our North America and European retail stores compete
with specialty vitamin stores, health food stores and other retail stores worldwide. With respect to mail order sales, we compete with a large
number of smaller, usually less geographically diverse, mail order and internet companies, some of which manufacture their own products and some of which sell products manufactured by others. The
market is highly sensitive to the introduction of new products which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. Increased competition from companies that distribute through the wholesale
channel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as these competitors may have greater financial and other resources available to
them and possess extensive manufacturing, distribution and marketing capabilities far greater than ours. See Item 1, "Business Competition; Customers."   

          We
may not be able to compete effectively in one of, or all, our markets, and our attempt to do so may require us to reduce our prices, which may result in lower margins. Failure to
compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our market share, business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and growth prospects.   

Our failure to appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products and services could harm our customer relationships and product sales
significantly.     

          The nutritional supplement industry is characterized by rapid and frequent changes in demand for products and new product introductions. Our failure to accurately
predict these trends could impact negatively consumer opinion of us as a source for the latest products, which in turn could harm our customer relationship and cause decreases in our net sales. The
success of our new product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to:   

accurately
anticipate customer needs;
           innovate
and develop new products;
           successfully
commercialize new products in a timely manner;
           price
our products competitively;    
 
  21  

manufacture
and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and
           differentiate
our product offerings from those of our competitors.    

If
we do not introduce new products or make enhancements to meet the changing need of our customers in a timely manner, some of our products could be rendered obsolete, which could have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.   

   We are subject to acts of God, war, sabotage and terrorism risk.     

          Acts of God, war, sabotage and terrorist attacks or any similar risk may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of the shopping and
commercial behavior of our customers, changes in the insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. Acts of God, war and risk of war also have an adverse effect on
the economy. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war, sabotage or terrorism could adversely affect our ability to raise capital, as well as adversely affect the retail and vitamin and
dietary supplement industries and restrict their future growth.   

   We may be affected adversely by increased utility and fuel costs.     

          Increasing fuel costs may affect our results of operations adversely in that consumer traffic to our retail locations may be reduced and the costs of our sales
may increase as we incur fuel costs in connection with our manufacturing operations and the transportation of goods from our warehouse and distribution facilities to stores. Also, high oil costs can
affect the cost of our raw materials and components and the competitive environment in which we operate may limit our ability to recover higher costs resulting from rising fuel prices.   

   Our profits may be affected negatively by currency exchange rate fluctuations.     

Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by currency fluctuations due to the geographic diversity of our sales and the countries in which we operate,
which may have a significant impact on our financial results. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, 35% of our sales were denominated in a currency other than the US Dollar, and as of
September 30, 2006, 28% of our assets and 19% of our total liabilities were denominated in a currency other than the US Dollar. As of September 30, 2006, we had not entered into any
hedging arrangements to mitigate our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk.   

Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business.     

          We own trademarks registered with the US Patent and Trademark Office and many foreign jurisdictions for our Nature's Bounty , Vitamin
World , Puritan's Pride , Rexall , Sundown , Ester-C , Solgar , MET-Rx , WORLDWIDE Sport
Nutrition , American Health  trademarks, among others, and with the appropriate UK, Dutch and Canadian authorities for our Holland   Barrett , Nature's
Way , De Tuinen , Le Naturiste  and SISU  trademarks, among others, and have rights to use other names essential to our business. Our policy is to
pursue registrations for all trademarks associated with our key products. US registered trademarks have a perpetual life, as long as they are renewed on a timely basis and used properly as trademarks,
subject to the rights of third parties to seek cancellation of the trademarks if they claim priority or confusion of usage. We regard our trademarks and other proprietary rights as valuable assets and
believe they have significant value in marketing our products. We vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement. Our products generally are not subject to patent protection. There can be no
assurance that, to the extent we do not have patents or trademarks on our products, another company will not replicate one or more of our products. Further, there can be no assurance that in those
foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business the protection available to the us will be as extensive as the protection available to us in the United States. See Item 1,
"Business Trademarks."   

  22  

Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims against us could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our
products, which could adversely affect our revenues and market share.     

          We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from
manufacturing, selling or using our products. Claims of intellectual property infringement also may require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may be unable to obtain
royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Claims that our technology or products infringe on intellectual property rights could be costly, could cause reputational injury and
would divert the attention of management and key personnel, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.   

   Item 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS     

Not applicable.   

   Item 2.    PROPERTIES     

            US.        At September 30, 2006, we owned a total of approximately 2.5 million square feet of
manufacturing, warehouse, distribution and administrative facilities. We also leased approximately 1.275 million square feet of administrative, manufacturing, warehouse and distribution space
in various locations at the end of fiscal 2006. At September 30, 2006, we leased and operated 476 retail locations under the names Vitamin World and Nutrition Warehouse in 44 states in the
United States, Guam, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Generally, we lease retail properties for three to ten years at varying annual base rents and percentage rents if sales exceed a specified
amount. The Vitamin World and Nutrition Warehouse retail stores have an average selling area of approximately 945 square feet.   

            UK/Ireland.        Holland   Barrett owns a 281,000 square foot administrative, manufacturing and
distribution facility (which includes a 68,300 square foot mezzanine) in Burton, UK. Holland   Barrett leases all but three of its 549 Holland   Barrett, GNC (UK), and Nature's Way
retail stores for terms varying between five and 35 years at varying annual base rents. Fourteen Holland   Barrett and four GNC (UK) stores are subject to percentage rents if sales
exceed a specified amount. Holland   Barrett stores each have an average selling area of approximately 946 square feet; Nature's Way stores each have an average selling area of approximately
675 square feet; and the GNC (UK) stores have an average selling area of approximately 974 square feet.   

            Netherlands.        De Tuinen leases a 71,400 square foot administrative and distribution facility in
Beverwijk. De Tuinen leases locations for 68 retail stores on renewable five-year terms at varying annual base rents. Of these, 46 are operated as company stores, 20 are
sub-leased to, and operated by, franchisees, and two are operated by franchisees who lease directly from a third party landlord. None of De Tuinen's stores are subject to percentage rents.   

Canada.        SISU Inc. leases a 30,200 square foot facility in Burnaby, British Columbia. This
facility is used for packaging, storing, manufacturing and distributing vitamins, and also contains various administrative offices. The lease currently expires in 2009. At September 30, 2006,
Le Naturiste leased a 9,900 square foot administrative facility, a 26,000 square foot warehouse facility and 96 retail locations throughout Quebec, Canada. Le Naturiste stores each have an average
selling area of approximately 775 square feet. At September 30, 2006, one Le Naturiste store was operated by a franchisee. Generally, the Le Naturiste stores are leased for three to ten years
at varying annual base rents and percentage rents if sales exceed a specified amount.   

  23  

The following is a listing, as of September 30, 2006, of all material properties (excluding retail locations and    de minimis   
administrative or sales office locations) owned or leased by the Company, which are used in all four of the Company's business segments. The Company is required to pay real estate and maintenance
costs relating to most of its leased properties:   

24  

(1)    We
currently are negotiating a renewal of this lease.
      (2)    The
40,000 square foot leased facility in South Plainfield, New Jersey currently is the subject of litigation between the landlord and us concerning the landlord(1)s refusal to extend
the lease. The lease contains renewal options which would extend the lease through 2010.    

          We
acquired a facility in Arizona as part of our acquisition of Zila Nutraceutical, Inc. on October 2, 2006. This includes a 65,000 square foot manufacturing and
administration facility we own and a 5,455 square foot warehouse facility we lease.   

   Warehousing and Distribution     

          Including recent acquisitions in Hazleton, Pennsylvania and Augusta, Georgia, we have dedicated approximately 3.6 million square feet to warehousing and
distribution. This figure also includes our facilities in Long Island, New York; Carbondale and Murphysboro, Illinois; Anaheim and Gardenia, California; Augusta and Duluth, Georgia; South Plainfield,
Piscataway, Lyndhurst and Leonia, New Jersey; Boca Raton and Deerfield Beach, Florida; Sparks, Nevada; Hazleton, Pennsylvania; Boucherville, Canada; Burton and Tring, UK; Burnaby, British Columbia,
Ontario, Canada; Madrid, Spain; Ranburg, South Africa; Auckland, New Zealand; and Beverwijk, Netherlands.   

          Our
warehouse and distribution centers are integrated with our order entry systems so typically we ship out mail orders within 24 hours of their receipt. Once a customer's
telephone, mail or internet order is completed, our computer system forwards the order to our distribution center, where all necessary distribution and shipping documents are printed to facilitate
processing. Thereafter, the orders are prepared, picked, packed and shipped continually throughout the business day. We operate a proprietary, state-of-the-art,
automated picking and packing system for frequently shipped items. We are capable of fulfilling 15,000 Direct Response/Puritan's Pride orders daily. A system of conveyors automatically routes boxes
carrying merchandise throughout our primary Long Island distribution center for fulfillment of orders. Completed orders are bar-coded and scanned and the merchandise and ship date are
verified and entered automatically into the customer order file for access by sales associates before being shipped. We currently ship our US orders primarily through the United Parcel
Service, Inc. (UPS), serving domestic and international markets. Holland   Barrett and GNC (UK) use Parcelforce and ANC for deliveries in the UK, and Nature's Way uses the Irish postal
service for deliveries in Ireland.   

          We
currently distribute our products from our distribution centers through Company-owned trucks, as well as contract and common carriers in the US and the Netherlands, and by
Company-owned trucks in the UK. Deliveries are made directly to the Vitamin World, Nutrition Warehouse and Le Naturiste stores once per week. In addition, we ship products overseas by container loads.
We also operate   

  25  

additional
distribution centers in Burton, UK and Beverwijk, Netherlands. Deliveries are made directly to Company-owned and operated Holland   Barrett, GNC (UK), Nature's Way, and De Tuinen
stores once or twice per week, depending on each store's inventory requirements.   

          All
our properties are covered by all-risk and liability insurance, in amounts and on terms that we believe are customary for the industry.   

          We
believe that these properties, taken as a whole, are generally well-maintained, and are adequate for current and reasonably foreseeable business needs. We also believe
that substantially all our properties are being utilized to a significant degree.   

   Item 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     

   Prohormone products     

           New York Action.       On July 25, 2002, a putative class-action lawsuit was filed against Vitamin World, Inc.,
alleging that Vitamin World engaged in deceptive trade practices and false advertising with respect to the sale of certain prohormone supplements and that the plaintiffs were therefore entitled to
equitable and monetary relief under the New York General Business Law. Similar complaints were filed against other companies in the vitamin and nutritional supplement industry. By Decision and Order
filed July 18, 2006, the Court granted Vitamin World's motion for summary judgment and dismissed all claims. The Plaintiffs have appealed.   

           California Action.       On July 25, 2002, a putative consumer class-action lawsuit was filed in California state court
against MET-Rx USA, Inc. ("MET-Rx"), an indirect subsidiary of Rexall Sundown, Inc. ("Rexall"), claiming that the advertising and marketing of certain prohormone
supplements were false and misleading, or alternatively, that the prohormone products contained ingredients that were controlled substances under California law. Plaintiffs seek equitable and monetary
relief. On June 18, 2004, this case was coordinated with several other class-action cases brought against other companies relating to the sale of products containing androstenediol, one of the
prohormones contained in MET-Rx products. The coordinated proceedings have been assigned to a coordination judge for further pretrial proceedings. No trial date has been set, the court has
not yet certified a class, and the matter is currently in discovery. We have defended vigorously against the claims asserted. Because this action is still in the early stages, no determination can be
made at this time as to its final outcome, nor can its materiality be accurately ascertained.   

           New Jersey Action.       In March 2004, a putative class-action lawsuit was filed in New Jersey against MET-Rx,
claiming that the advertising and marketing of certain prohormone supplements were false and misleading, and that plaintiff and the putative class of New Jersey purchasers of these products were
entitled to damages and injunctive relief. Because these allegations are virtually identical to allegations made in a putative nationwide class-action previously filed in California, we moved to
dismiss or stay the New Jersey action pending the outcome of the California action. The motion was granted, and the New Jersey action is stayed at this time.   

           Florida Action.       In July 2002, a putative class-action lawsuit was filed in Florida against MET-Rx,
claiming that the advertising and marketing of certain prohormone supplements were false and misleading, that the products were ineffective, and alternatively, that the products were anabolic steroids
whose sale violated Florida law. Plaintiff seeks equitable and monetary relief. This case has been largely inactive since its filing. No determination can be made at this time as to its final outcome,
nor can its materiality be accurately ascertained.   

  26  

Nutrition Bars     

          Rexall and certain of its subsidiaries are defendants in a class-action lawsuit brought in 2002 on behalf of all California consumers who bought various nutrition
bars. Plaintiffs allege misbranding of nutrition bars and violations of California unfair competition statutes, misleading advertising and other similar causes of action. Plaintiffs seek restitution,
legal fees and injunctive relief. The Company has defended this action vigorously. Until recently, the case was stayed for all purposes, pending rulings on relevant cases before the California Supreme
Court. The Court has now lifted the stay and has permitted Rexall and the other defendants to re-raise a motion for judgment on the pleadings. The Court has scheduled a conference on that
motion for January 10, 2007. Based upon the information available at this time, we believe that our accrual is adequate for the exposure in the nutrition bar litigation. However, no
determination can be made at this time as to the final outcome of this case, nor can its materiality be accurately ascertained.   

   Shareholder Litigation     

          From June 24, 2004 through September 3, 2004, six separate shareholder class-actions were filed against the Company and certain of our officers and
directors in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, on behalf of shareholders who purchased shares of our common stock between February 9, 2004 and July 22, 2004
(the potential "Class Period"). The actions allege that we failed to disclose material facts during the Class Period that resulted in a decline in the price of our stock after June 16, 2004 and
July 22, 2004, respectively. The Court consolidated the six class-actions in March 2005 and appointed lead plaintiff and counsel. The lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended
complaint alleging an amended class period from November 10, 2003 to July 22, 2004. Along with the officers and directors, we have filed a motion to dismiss the action. The motion was
denied on May 1, 2006, and the matter is now in discovery.   

          In
addition to the shareholder class-actions, two shareholder derivative actions were filed in the Eastern District of New York, on July 9, 2004 and August 26, 2004,
respectively, against certain of our officers and directors. The Company is named as a nominal defendant. The two derivative actions which were consolidated were predicated upon the allegations set
forth in the shareholder class-actions and alleged improper sales of our shares by certain officers and directors. On December 27, 2004, the Court granted our motion to dismiss this complaint.
The plaintiffs filed an appeal. The Second Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal on December 20, 2005. By letter dated February 27, 2006, one of the derivative plaintiffs whose
claim was dismissed demanded that our board of directors file a civil action against certain officers and directors in connection with the allegations set forth in that derivative plaintiff's
original complaint. The board rejected this shareholder demand based upon its prior investigation of a similar demand by another alleged shareholder, as described below.   

An
additional shareholder derivative action was filed on October 7, 2004 in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, Suffolk County, alleging breaches of fiduciary duties by
our individual directors and officers. The Company is named as a nominal defendant. The derivative claims are predicated upon the same allegations as in the dismissed Eastern District consolidated
derivative action and upon claims arising from our 2003 acquisition of Rexall. The shareholder who filed this derivative action agreed to voluntarily discontinue it in light of the dismissal of the
Eastern District consolidated derivative action. A stipulation of dismissal was filed.   

          Also,
a purported shareholder of the Company delivered a demand in July 2004 that our board of directors commence a civil action against certain of our officers and directors
based on certain of the allegations described above. Our board of directors, based on the investigation and recommendation of a special committee of the Board, determined not to commence any such
lawsuit. On or about April 28, 2005, a second state court derivative action was filed in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, Suffolk County, by this purported shareholder alleging
wrongful rejection of his demand and   

  27  

breaches
of fiduciary duties by some of our individual directors and officers. The Company is named as a nominal defendant. This derivative complaint is predicated upon the same allegations as the
dismissed Eastern District consolidated derivative action. Along with the named officers and directors, the Company has filed a motion to dismiss.   

          The
Company and its named officers and directors believe these suits are without merit and vigorously have defended these actions. Given the early stages of the proceedings, however, no
determination can be made at this time as to the final outcome of these actions, nor can their materiality be accurately ascertained. We maintain policies of directors' and officers' personal
liability insurance.   

   General     

          In addition to the foregoing, other regulatory inquiries, claims, suits and complaints (including product liability and intellectual property claims) arise in the
ordinary course of our business. See Item 1, "Business Government Regulation" for a discussion of these matters. We believe that such other inquiries, claims, suits and complaints
would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations, if determined against us.   

   Item 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS     

          None.   

  28  

PART II            

   Item 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES     

DIVIDEND POLICY            

          Since our incorporation in 1979, we have not paid any cash dividends on our Common Stock. Future determination as to the payment of cash or stock dividends will
depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, restrictions contained in our Credit Agreement dated November 3, 2006, limitations contained in the indenture
governing our 7 1 / 8 % Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 (the "Indenture"), and such other factors as our Board of Directors consider appropriate.   

          The
CGA prohibits our paying dividends or making any other distributions (other than dividends payable solely in shares of our common stock) to our stockholders. The Indenture similarly
prohibits our paying dividends or making any other distributions to our stockholders, subject to some exceptions. Furthermore, except as expressly permitted in the Indenture, our subsidiaries are not
permitted to invest in the Company. However, the CGA and the Indenture do permit our subsidiaries to pay us dividends.   

          For
additional information regarding these lending arrangements and securities, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report.   

  29  

PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK            

          The Common Stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the trading symbol "NTY." The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the
high and low sale prices for the Common Stock, as reported on the NYSE.   

On
November 30, 2006, there were approximately 520 record holders of Common Stock. The Company believes that there were approximately 26,540 beneficial holders of Common Stock as
of November 30, 2006.   

          As
required by applicable NYSE listing rules, on February 15, 2006, following our 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer submitted to the
NYSE a certification that he was not aware of any violation by the Company of NYSE corporate governance listing standards.   

For
additional information regarding the Company's securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Item 12, "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" in this Report.   

  30  

SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE   UNDER EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS            

          The following table summarizes the Company's equity compensation plans as of September 30, 2006 (shares in thousands).   

Plan Category      
     
   Number of 
securities to be 
issued upon 
exercise of 
outstanding 
options, warrants 
and rights 
(a)    
     
   Weighted-average 
exercise price of 
outstanding options, 
warrants and rights 
(b)    
     
   Number of securities 
remaining available for 
future issuance under 
equity compensation plans 
(excluding securities 
reflected in column (a)) 
(c)    

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders  
     
  3,802  
     
  $  
  5.79  
     
  2,458  

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders  

Total:  
     
  3,802  
     
  $  
  5.79  
     
  2,458  

PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES BY THE ISSUER   AND AFFILIATED PURCHASERS            

          The Company sponsored Employee Stock Ownership Plan purchased 118,603 shares of our common stock at $16.86 per share in the open market during
December 2005.   

  31  

Item 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     

          The following table sets forth the selected financial data derived from the audited financial statements of the Company. For additional information, see the
consolidated financial statements of the Company and the notes thereto. The selected historical financial data of the Company also should be read in conjunction with Item 7, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this Report.   

Operating
results in all periods presented reflect the impact of acquisitions. The timing of those acquisitions and the changing mix of businesses as acquired companies are integrated
into the Company may affect the comparability of results from one period to another. (See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Report.)   

  32  

Item 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS     

          Readers are cautioned that certain statements contained herein are forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with the Company's disclosures
under the heading "Forward Looking Statements" on page 1. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. This discussion should also be
read in conjunction with the Notes to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Report. Dollar amounts
are in thousands, unless otherwise noted.   

   Background     

          NBTY is a leading vertically integrated manufacturer, marketer, distributor and retailer of a broad line of high-quality, value-priced nutritional
supplements in the United States and throughout the world. The Company markets approximately 22,000 products under several brands, including Nature's Bounty , Vitamin World ,
Puritan's Pride , Holland   Barrett , Rexall , Sundown , MET-Rx , WORLDWIDE Sport Nutrition , American
Health , DeTuinen , Le Naturiste , SISU , Solgar  and Ester-C . The Company has continued to grow through its
marketing practices and through a series of strategic acquisitions. Since 1986, the Company has acquired and successfully integrated over 30 companies and/or businesses engaged in the manufacturing,
retail and direct response sale of nutritional supplements, including:   

Fiscal
1997: Holland   Barrett;
           Fiscal
1998: Nutrition Headquarters Group;
           Fiscal
2000: Nutrition Warehouse Group;
           Fiscal
2001: Global Health Sciences (the "Global Group"), NatureSmart and Nature's Way;
           Fiscal
2002: Healthcentral.com, Knox NutraJoint , and Synergy Plus  product lines/operations;
           Fiscal
2003: Rexall Sundown Inc., Health and Diet Group Ltd. ("GNC (UK)"), FSC Wholesale, and the DeTuinen chain of retail stores;
           Fiscal
2005: Le Naturiste Jean-Marc Brunet ("Le Naturiste"), SISU, Inc. ("SISU") and Solgar Vitamin and Herb, a division of Wyeth Consumer Healthcare
("Solgar"); and
           Fiscal
2007 to date: Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc. ("ZNI"), Ester-C .    

NBTY
markets its products through four distribution channels:   

Wholesale/US
Nutrition: wholesale distribution to drug store chains, supermarkets, discounters, independent pharmacies, and health food stores,
           North
American Retail: Vitamin World and Nutrition Warehouse retail stores in the U.S. and Le Naturiste retail stores in Canada,
           European
Retail: Holland   Barrett and GNC (UK), Nature's Way and DeTuinen retail stores in the U.K., Ireland, and the Netherlands, respectively and
           Direct
Response: Puritan's Pride sales via catalogs and Internet.    
 
  33  

Retail
store activity, including both Company-operated and independent franchised stores, during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as follows:   

(a)    On
February 25, 2005, the Company acquired the Canadian Le Naturiste chain of retail stores. At the time of the acquisition, the Le Naturiste chain operated 99 company-owned
stores and 4 franchised stores located throughout Quebec.    

          The
Company's net sales from Wholesale/US Nutrition, North American Retail, European Retail, and Direct Response, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, were approximately 47%, 13%,
30% and 10%, respectively, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. Cost of sales includes the cost of raw materials and all labor and overhead associated with the manufacturing and
packaging of the products. Gross margins are affected by, among other things, changes in the relative sales mix among the Company's four distribution channels, the level of promotional programs
offered, and the impact of acquired entities' operations. Historically, gross margins from the Company's direct response/e-commerce and retail sales have typically been higher than gross
margins from wholesale sales.   

   Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies     

          Complete descriptions of the Company's significant accounting policies are outlined in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Report.   

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results
of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The Company's critical accounting estimates and
policies include:   

revenue
recognition;
           sales
returns and allowances;
           allowance
for doubtful accounts;
           inventory
valuation and obsolescence;    
 
  34  

valuation
and recoverability of long-lived and indefinite-lived intangible assets including the values assigned to acquired intangible assets, goodwill, assets
held for sale and property, plant and equipment;
           income
taxes;
           foreign
currency; and
           accruals
for the outcome of current litigation.    

In
general, estimates are based on historical experience, on information from third party professionals and on various other sources and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable
under the facts and circumstances at the time such estimates are made. On a continual basis, management reviews its estimates utilizing currently available information, changes in facts and
circumstances, historical experience and reasonable assumptions. After such reviews, and if deemed appropriate, those estimates are adjusted accordingly. Actual results may vary from these estimates
and assumptions under different and/or future circumstances. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if:   

it
requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made; and
           changes
in the estimate, or the use of different estimating methods that could have been selected, could have a material impact on the Company's consolidated results of
operations or financial condition.    

The
following critical accounting policies have been identified that affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
The following critical accounting policies are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of the Company's accounting policies or estimates.   

Revenue Recognition:     

          The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin 104. The Company recognizes product sales
revenue when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer, there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility
is reasonably assured. Since the terms for most sales within the wholesale and direct response segments are F.O.B. destination, generally title and risk of loss transfer to the customer at the time
the product is received by the customer. With respect to its own retail store operations, the Company recognizes revenue upon the sale of its products to retail customers. The Company's net sales
represent gross sales invoiced to customers, less certain related charges for discounts, returns, and other promotional program incentive allowances. Accruals provided for these items are presented in
the consolidated financial statements as reductions to sales.   

   Sales Returns and Other Allowances:     

          The Company simultaneously records estimates for various items, which reduce product sales. These items include estimates for product returns and for promotional
program incentive activities for various types of incentives offered to customers as well as other sales allowances.   

           Allowance
for sales returns:     The Company analyzes sales returns in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS")
No. 48 "Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists" ("SFAS 48"). The Company is able to make reasonable and reliable estimates of product returns based on the Company's past
27 year history in the business. The Company also monitors the buying patterns of the end-users of its products based on sales data received by its approximately 1,200 retail
outlets in North America and Europe. Estimates for sales returns are based on a variety of factors including actual return experience of any specific product or similar product. The Company reviews
its estimates   

  35  

for
product returns based on expected return data communicated to it by customers. The Company also monitors the levels of inventory at its largest customers to avoid excessive customer stocking of
merchandise. Accruals for returns for new products are estimated by reviewing data of any prior relevant new product return information. Accordingly, the Company believes that its historical returns
analysis is an accurate basis for its sales return accrual. While the Company does not have the ability to track returns by fiscal period, the Company believes it is able to make reasonable estimates
of expected sales returns, as contemplated by the requirements of SFAS 48, based upon historical data and the available monitoring processes. The Company believes it has sufficient information and
knowledge of its customers and of industry trends and conditions to adjust the accrual for returns when necessary. Actual results could differ from those estimates.   

           Promotional
program incentive allowance:     The Company uses objective procedures for estimating its allowance for promotional program incentives.
The allowance for sales incentives offered to customers is based on contractual terms or other arrangements agreed to in advance with certain customers. Customers earn such incentives as specified
sales volumes are achieved.   

          The
activity in the allowance for sales returns and the promotional program incentive allowance is as follows:   

(a)    Represents
the opening balance sheet reserves from the Solgar acquisition.    

          As
with any set of assumptions and estimates, there is a range of reasonably likely amounts that may be calculated for each accrual above. However, the Company believes that there would
be no significant difference in the amounts reported using any other reasonable assumptions than what was used to arrive at each accrual. The Company regularly reviews the factors that influence its
estimates and, if necessary, makes adjustments when it believes that actual product returns, credits and other allowances may differ from established reserves. Actual experience associated with any of
these items may be significantly different than the Company's estimates.   

   Accounts Receivable:     

          Accounts receivable are presented net of certain allowances which include the above mentioned sales returns and allowance items, as well as an allowance for
doubtful accounts. In order to estimate the allowance for doubtful accounts, the Company performs on-going credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment
history and the customer's current credit worthiness, as determined by the review of their current credit information. Collections and payments from customers are continuously monitored. The Company
maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is based upon historical experience as well as specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such bad debt expenses have
historically been within expectations and allowances established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same   

  36  

credit
loss rates that it has in the past. If the financial condition of customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be
required.   

   Inventories:     

          Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The cost elements of inventories include materials, labor and overhead. The Company uses standard costs for
labor and overhead and periodically adjusts those standards. The Company establishes reserves for its inventories to reflect situations in which the cost of the inventory is not expected to be
recovered. The Company regularly
reviews its inventories, including when product is close to expiration and is not expected to be sold, when product has reached its expiration date, or when product is not expected to be saleable
based on the Company's quality assurance and quality control standards. The reserve for these products is equal to all or a portion of the cost of the related inventory based on specific facts and
circumstances. In evaluating whether inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, management considers such factors as the amount of inventory on hand, estimated time required to sell such
inventory, remaining shelf life and current and expected market conditions, including levels of competition. The Company has evaluated the current level of inventories considering historical sales and
other factors and, based on this evaluation, has recorded adjustments to cost of goods sold to adjust inventories to net realizable value. These adjustments are estimates, which could vary
significantly, either favorably or unfavorably, from actual requirements if future economic conditions, customer demand or competition differ from expectations.   

   Long-Lived Assets:     

          The Company periodically reviews the values assigned to long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, intangibles, assets held for sale
and goodwill. The associated depreciation and amortization periods are reviewed on an annual basis.   

          The
Company follows the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." This statement requires evaluation of the need
for an impairment charge relating to long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. During fiscal
2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company recognized impairment charges of $3,141, $3,518 and $2,603, respectively, on assets to be held and used. The impairment charges in each of these years related
primarily to leasehold improvements and furniture and fixtures for the North American Retail operations and were recorded in selling, general and administrative expense. For a discussion of impairment
charges as of and for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, see Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" of this Report.   

          Goodwill
and other indefinite-lived intangibles are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise, in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS No. 142"). The SFAS No. 142 goodwill impairment model is a two-step process. The first step compares the fair value of a reporting unit
that has goodwill assigned to its carrying value. The Company estimates the fair value of a reporting unit by using a discounted cash flow model. If the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to
be less than its carrying value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of goodwill impairment, if any. Step two allocates the fair value of a reporting unit to the reporting unit's net
assets other than goodwill. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its net assets other than goodwill is considered the implied fair value of the reporting
unit's goodwill. The implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is then compared to the carrying value of its goodwill. Any shortfall represents the amount of goodwill impairment.
SFAS 142 requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis and between annual tests if
an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not   

  37  

reduce
the fair value of a reporting unit below it carrying value. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets
and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. These evaluations require the use of judgment as to the
effects of external factors and market conditions on the Company's conduct of its operations, and they require the use of estimates in projecting future operating results. If actual external
conditions or future operating results differ from the Company's judgments, impairment charges may be necessary to reduce the carrying value of the subject assets. The fair value of an asset could
vary, depending upon the different estimating methods employed, as well as assumptions made. This may result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and/or goodwill. An impairment charge
would reduce operating income in the period it was determined that the charge was needed. The Company tests goodwill annually as of September 30, the last day of its fourth fiscal quarter,
unless an event occurs that would cause the Company to believe the value is impaired at an interim date. The Company recognized a $7,686 impairment charge of goodwill for the North American Retail
reporting unit for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 which fully impaired this segment's goodwill. For a discussion of impairment charges see Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Report. As a result of the September 30, 2006 and 2004 goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment testing, no impairment adjustments were deemed necessary.   

          During
fiscal 2006, due to continued difficult market conditions experienced in its low carb product line, the Company decided to discontinue its Carb Solutions trademarked brands (which
was acquired as part of the acquisition of Rexall Sundown in 2003) since the brand related to this trademark had virtually no future undiscounted cash flow to support its carrying value. Accordingly,
the Company wrote off the net carrying value of the Carb Solutions trademarked brands of $10,450 during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. For a discussion of impairment charges see
Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Report.   

          The
Company considers the following to be some examples of important indicators that may trigger an impairment review: (i) significant under-performance or loss of key contracts
acquired in an acquisition relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; (ii) significant changes in the manner or use of the acquired assets or in the Company's
overall strategy with respect to the manner or use of the acquired assets or changes in the Company's overall business strategy; (iii) significant negative industry or economic trends;
(iv) increased competitive pressures; (v) a significant decline in the Company's stock price for a sustained period of time; and (vi) regulatory changes.   

          The
Company periodically evaluates acquired businesses for potential impairment indicators. Judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on market conditions and
operational performance of the acquired businesses. Future events could cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist, and therefore that goodwill and other intangible assets
associated with its acquired businesses are impaired. Generally, in evaluating impairment, the Company estimates the sum of the expected future cash flows derived from such goodwill. Such evaluations
for impairment are significantly impacted by estimates of future revenues, costs and expenses and other factors. A significant change in cash flows in the future could result in an additional
impairment of goodwill.   

   Purchase Price Allocation:     

          On June 8, 2005, the Company acquired SISU, Inc. ("SISU"), a Canadian-based manufacturer and distributor of premium quality vitamins and supplements
sold to independent health food stores. The purchase price for this business was approximately $8,224 in cash. The Company accounted for this   

  38  

acquisition
under the purchase method of accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations." Under the purchase method of accounting, the total purchase price was allocated to
the tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value was recorded as goodwill. The fair
value assigned to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was based upon estimates and assumptions developed by the Company and other information compiled by the Company,
including a valuation, prepared by an independent valuation specialist that utilized established valuation techniques appropriate for the industry.   

The
Company has not yet finalized the working capital adjustment (as defined in the purchase agreement) relating to the SISU acquisition. The purchase agreement stipulates an adjustment
to the purchase price between buyer and seller for the excess or shortfall of the final working capital threshold as stated in such agreement. The Company and SISU's seller are in a dispute with
respect to the calculation of the final working capital. Also, the preliminary allocation of the SISU purchase price noted above is subject to contingency payments based upon financial loss claims as
specified in the purchase agreement. The purchase agreement stipulates the indemnification from the seller of any financial losses of SISU for the period from June 1, 2005 to May 31,
2006 up to the maximum amount of $500. The completion of this process may result in an adjustment to the purchase price. Upon
completion of these events, final allocations to the acquired assets and liabilities could result in future adjustments to goodwill and actual results may differ from those presented herein. Although
management believes that the current allocation of the estimated purchase price is reasonable, the final allocation may differ significantly from the amounts reflected in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements.   

   Income Taxes:     

          The Company records the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and amounts reported in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets, as well as tax credit carrybacks and carryforwards. The Company periodically reviews the recoverability of deferred tax assets recorded on the balance sheet
and provides valuation allowances as management deems necessary. Management makes judgments as to the interpretation of the tax laws that might be challenged upon an audit and cause changes to
previous estimates of tax liability. In addition, the Company operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. In management's opinion, adequate provisions
for income taxes have been made for all years. If actual taxable income by tax jurisdiction varies from estimates, additional allowances or reversals of reserves may be necessary.   

Foreign Currency:     

          Approximately 35% and 34% of the Company's net sales for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were denominated in currencies
other than U.S. dollars, principally British Pounds, Euros and Canadian Dollars. Approximately 31% of the Company's net sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004 was denominated in
currencies other than U.S. dollars, principally British Pounds and Euros. A significant weakening of such currencies versus the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on the Company, as this
would result in a decrease in the Company's consolidated operating results.   

          Foreign
subsidiaries accounted for the following percentages of assets and total liabilities as of September 30, 2006 and 2005:   

39  

In
preparing the consolidated financial statements, the financial statements of the foreign subsidiaries are translated from the functional currency, generally the local currency, into
U.S. Dollars. This process results in exchange rate gains and losses, which, under the relevant accounting guidance, are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity under the caption
"Accumulated other comprehensive income."   

          Under
the relevant accounting guidance, the functional currency of each foreign subsidiary is determined based on management's judgment and involves consideration of all relevant
economic facts and circumstances affecting the subsidiary. Generally, the currency in which the subsidiary transacts a majority of its transactions, including billings, financing, payroll and other
expenditures, would be considered the functional currency, but any dependency upon the parent and the nature of the subsidiary's operations must also be considered.   

          If
a subsidiary's functional currency is deemed to be the local currency, then any gain or loss associated with the translation of that subsidiary's financial statements is included in
accumulated other comprehensive income. However, if the functional currency is deemed to be the U.S. Dollar, then any gain or loss associated with the remeasurement of these financial statements from
the local currency to the functional currency would be included within the statement of operations. If the Company disposes of subsidiaries, then any cumulative translation gains or losses would be
recorded into the statement of operations. If the Company determines that there has been a change in the functional currency of a subsidiary to the U.S. Dollar, any translation gains or losses arising
after the date of change would be included within the statement of operations.   

          Based
on an assessment of the factors discussed above, the Company considers the relevant subsidiary's local currency to be the functional currency for each of its foreign subsidiaries.
During the fiscal years of 2006, 2005 and 2004, translation gains (losses) of $11,431, ($5,121) and $7,547, respectively, were
included in determining other comprehensive income. Accordingly, cumulative translation gains of approximately $29,027 and $17,596 were included as part of accumulated other comprehensive income
within the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

          The
magnitude of these gains or losses is dependent upon movements in the exchange rates of the foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar. These currencies mainly include the British
Pound Sterling, the Euro and the Canadian Dollar. Any future translation gains or losses could be significantly different than those noted in each of these years.   

   Contingencies:     

          NBTY is subject to proceedings, lawsuits and other claims related to various matters. The Company is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or
outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. Management determines the amount of reserves needed, if any, for each individual issue based on its knowledge and experience
and discussions with legal counsel. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter, the ultimate resolution of each matter or changes in approach, such as a
change in settlement strategy, in dealing with these matters. As discussed in Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Report, NBTY is unable to make a reasonable estimate of the liabilities that may result from the final resolution of certain contingencies disclosed.
Assessments of each potential liability will be made as additional information becomes available. NBTY currently does not believe that these matters will have a material adverse affect on its
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

  40  

General     

          Operating results in all periods presented reflect the impact of acquisitions. The timing of those acquisitions and the changing mix of businesses as acquired
companies are integrated into the Company may affect the comparability of results from one period to another. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Report for detailed information on recent acquisitions.   

   Results of Operations     

          The following table sets forth for the periods indicated, the Consolidated Statements of Income of the Company expressed as a percentage of total net sales.
Percentages may not add due to rounding.   

Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2006 ("fiscal 2006") Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2005 ("fiscal 2005")      

            Net Sales.        Net sales by segment for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 are as follows:   

41  

Wholesale/US Nutrition    

Net
sales for the Wholesale/US Nutrition segment, which markets certain brands including Nature's Bounty, Met-Rx, Sundown and Solgar, increased primarily due to the
following:   

The
balance of the increase is attributed to sales generated from strategic promotional advertising of the Company's brands. The Company continues to adjust shelf space allocation among
the several US Nutrition brands to provide the best overall product mix and to respond to changing market conditions. These efforts have helped to strengthen US Nutrition's position in the mass
market. US Nutrition continues to leverage valuable consumer sales information obtained from the Company's Vitamin World retail stores and Puritan's Pride direct-response/e-commerce
operations in order to provide its mass-market customers with data and analyses to drive mass market sales.   

Product
returns were $28,113 in fiscal 2006 as compared to $45,444 in fiscal 2005. The returns for fiscal 2006 are comprised of returns in the ordinary course of business. The returns
for fiscal 2005 were comprised of low carb products (as a result of the decline in the market for these products), reallocations of the US Nutrition brands (certain slow selling Rexall brands were
replaced with faster selling Nature's Bounty brand products), and returns arising from the ordinary course of business.   

          For
the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, two customers of the Wholesale/US Nutrition segment represented, individually, more than 10% of the Wholesale/US Nutrition
segment's net sales. One of these customers is primarily a supplier to the other customer; therefore, changes in the Company's business relationship with either customer would likely result in the
loss of most of the net sales to both customers. While no one customer represented individually more than 10% of the Company's consolidated net sales in fiscal 2006 or fiscal 2005, the loss of either
one of these customers would have a material adverse effect on the Wholesale/US Nutrition segment if the Company is unable to replace such customer(s).   

North American Retail    

The
increase in net sales for the North American Retail segment is primarily due to increased sales from Le Naturiste ($8,568), which was acquired on February 25, 2005 (in fiscal
2005). Additionally, although 75 U.S. Retail stores were closed during fiscal 2006, the U.S. Retail same store sales for stores open more than one year increased $10,532 or 5.7% which also contributed
to this increase. This increase was offset by the decline in the number of Vitamin World stores in operation during fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 (66 less U.S. Retail stores) for a total net
$1,639 annual net sales increase in U.S. Retail stores. The number of customers in the Savings Passport Program, a customer loyalty program, increased approximately 1.1 million to
7.0 million customers at September 30, 2006, as compared to 5.9 million customers at September 30, 2005. The Savings Passport Card is used to increase customer traffic and
provide incentives for customers to purchase at Vitamin World. It is also an additional tool the Company utilizes to track customer preferences and purchasing trends.   

  42  

The
following is a summary of North American Retail store activity for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005:   

North American Retail stores:      
     
   Fiscal 
2006    
     
   Fiscal 
2005    

Vitamin World    

Open at beginning of the period  
     
  542  
     
  557  

Opened during the period  
     
  9  
     
  21  

Closed during the period  
     
  (75  
  )  
  (36  
  )  

Open at end of the period  
     
  476  
     
  542  

Le Naturiste    

Open at beginning of the period: company-owned stores  
     
  97  

Open at beginning of the period: franchised stores  
     
  4  

Acquired during the period: company-owned stores  

99  

Acquired during the period: franchised stores  

4  

Opened during the period: company-owned stores  
     
  3  
  *  

Opened during the period: franchised stores  

Closed during the period: company-owned stores  
     
  (5  
  )  
  (2  
  )  

Closed during the period: franchised stores  
     
  (3  
  *)  
  (   
  )  

Open at end of the period: company-owned stores  
     
  95  
     
  97  

Open at end of the period: franchised stores  
     
  1  
     
  4  

*    3
franchised stores were converted to company-owned stores during the period    

European Retail/Holland   Barrett/GNC (UK)    

The
decrease in the European Retail segment's net sales is primarily the result of the unfavorable effect of the decrease in the exchange rate for the British Pound, resulting in a
decrease of $18,605 or 3.3% in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The European Retail same store sales for stores open more than one year increased $7,019 or 1.3% in fiscal 2006 as compared to
fiscal 2005. However, in local currency same store sales for stores open more than one year increased 4.1% in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The European Retail division continues to leverage
its premier status, high street locations and brand awareness to achieve these results.   

          The
following is a summary of European Retail store activity for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005:   

Direct Response/Puritan's Pride    

Direct
Response/Puritan's Pride net sales decreased primarily due to the timing of promotional catalogues and the negative impact of lower sales in the first fiscal quarter of the year.
The average order size increased 6.5% in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. On-line net sales comprised 33.6% of this segment's net sales for fiscal 2006 and increased 21.6% for
fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The Company remains the leader in the direct response and e-commerce sectors and continues to increase the number of products available via its
catalog and websites.   

  43  

Cost of Sales.        Cost of sales for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 is as follows:   

Gross
profit as a percentage of net sales by segment for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 is as follows:   

The
Wholesale/US Nutrition segment's gross profit percentage for fiscal 2006 decreased as compared to fiscal 2005. The gross profit for this segment was negatively
affected by changes in product mix, increases in promotional incentives, competitive pricing in the joint care category and higher prices paid for certain raw materials. Product returns for fiscal
2006 were $28,113, compared to $45,444 for the prior comparable period. A majority of the returns in fiscal 2005 were unsaleable as these returns were for low carb products, resulting from the
contraction in the low carb market. The North American Retail gross profit increased primarily due to a change in the promotional strategy at store level. The retail promotional strategy is regularly
revised to maximize specialty sales and gross profit. The European Retail gross profit remained unchanged as compared to the prior comparable period. Direct
Response/Puritan's Pride gross profit increased primarily due to varied price promotions offered to customers.   

            Advertising, promotion and catalog.        Total advertising, promotion and catalog expenses for fiscal 2006
as compared to fiscal 2005 are as follows:   

The
decrease in advertising expense in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 is mainly due to the discontinuance of aggressive promotions for some of the Company's
leading brands. NBTY creates its own advertising materials through its in-house staff of associates. In the U.K. and Ireland, both Holland   Barrett and Nature's Way advertise on
television and in national newspapers and conduct   

  44  

sales
promotions. GNC (UK) and De Tuinen also advertise in newspapers and conduct sales promotions. SISU advertises in trade journals and magazines and conducts sales promotions.   

          Total
advertising, promotion and catalog expenses by segment for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 are as follows:   

The
Wholesale/US Nutrition segment's advertising expenses decreased due to less emphasis by the Company on advertising through providing marketing incentives to customers. European
Retail increased its advertising for specific television campaigns in order to maintain sales during the fiscal year.   

            Selling, General and Administrative.        Selling, general and administrative expenses by segment for
fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 are as follows:   

The
Wholesale / US Nutrition segment's selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to such expenses of Solgar and SISU, acquired on August 1, 2005 and
June 8, 2005, respectively. Selling, general and administrative expense increases for Solgar and SISU for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 were $24,305 and $3,357, respectively.
These increases were offset by decreases in insurance due to lower premiums and decreased freight costs, which declined mainly due to the Company changing certain of its freight carriers and obtaining
more favorable rates. The European Retail's selling, general and administrative expense increased due to increases in building and real estate tax expense, which is primarily the result of an increase
in the number of stores in operation as compared to the prior like period. The European Retail's selling, general and administrative expense increase was offset by $6,383 attributable to foreign
exchange. The decline in the North American Retail's selling, general and administrative expense is primarily due to less salaries, building and depreciation expenses as a result of the reduction in
the number of stores in operation as compared to the prior like period.   

  45  

Selling, general and administrative expenses by type for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 are as follows:   

The
net increase in selling, general and administrative expense is attributable to the following: Payroll costs increased mainly due to recent business acquisitions and general salary
increases, professional fees increased due to our compliance efforts with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, offset by lower insurance costs due to decreased premiums and lower freight costs due to
changes in carriers. Additionally, rent and depreciation expense in U.S. retail stores declined mainly as a result of fewer stores open in the current period as compared to the prior period (66 fewer
stores). Other selling, general and administrative expenses are primarily comprised of amortization, travel and credit card processing fees.   

Trademark / goodwill impairments.        Due to continued difficult market conditions, the Company decided
to discontinue its Carb Solutions low carb product line, acquired as part of the acquisition of Rexall Sundown in 2003. Accordingly, the Company wrote off the carrying value of the Carb Solutions
trademarked brands of $10,450 in fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2005, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $7,686 for the North American Retail operations (Vitamin World operations).
Impairment indicators are discussed in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Report.   

Interest expense.        The two major components of interest expense are interest on the outstanding Senior
Subordinated Notes and interest on amounts outstanding under the Credit and Guarantee Agreement ("CGA") used for acquisitions, capital expenditures and other working capital needs. At
September 30, 2006, the CGA consisted of a $125,000 Revolving Credit Facility, which had no borrowings outstanding, and a Term Loan A and Term Loan C, which were fully repaid as of
September 30, 2006. Interest rates charged on borrowings can vary depending on the interest rate option utilized. Options for the interest rate can either be the Alternate Base Rate or LIBOR,
plus applicable margin.   

          Interest
expense for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 is as follows:   

46  

Interest
expense by debt category for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 is as follows:   

Interest
expense decreased primarily due to the Company paying down Term Loan C in April 2006 and an increase in capitalized interest in the current fiscal year compared to the
prior comparable period. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in interest expense for fiscal 2006 on Term Loan A which was issued on August 1, 2005, in connection with the
Company's acquisition of Solgar. As Term Loan A was not outstanding during most of fiscal 2005, there was no such interest expense in that period.   

Miscellaneous, net.        Miscellaneous, net for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 is as follows:   

Miscellaneous,
net decreased for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 as follows:   

The
decrease in miscellaneous, net is primarily due to the foreign exchange transaction (loss) / gain associated with the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the British Pound as
compared to the prior comparable period.   

  47  

Income Taxes.        Income tax expense for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005, and the respective
effective income tax rates, are as follows:   

The
Company's income tax expense is impacted by a number of factors, including federal taxes, its international tax structure, state tax rates in the jurisdictions where the Company
conducts business, and the Company's ability to utilize state tax credits that will begin to expire in 2013. Therefore, the Company's overall effective income tax rate could vary as a result of these
factors. The effective income tax rate for fiscal 2006 was 26.9%, as compared to 34.5% for fiscal 2005. The decline in the effective rate is mainly attributable to the impact of the Foreign Earnings
Repatriation ("FER") provision in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which impacted fiscal 2006 by $11,289 (7.4% impact to the rate, see discussion below). As the Company has principally
repatriated foreign earnings in prior years, it is essentially repatriating current year foreign earnings at a more beneficial rate under the American Jobs Creations Act of 2004. The effective income
tax rates are generally less than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate primarily due to the enhanced structure of foreign subsidiaries, which could also continue to impact future fiscal years, as well
as the impact of the FER provision of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 noted above.   

Net Income.        After income taxes, the Company's net income for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005,
and the respective basic and diluted earnings per share, are as follows:   

Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2005 ("fiscal 2005") Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2004 ("fiscal 2004")      

            Net Sales.        Net sales by segment for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 are as follows:   

48  

Wholesale / US Nutrition    

Net
sales for the Wholesale / US Nutrition segment, which markets certain brands including Nature's Bounty, Met-Rx, Sundown and Solgar, increased primarily due to sales from
Solgar, which was acquired on August 1, 2005. Net sales for Solgar from the date of acquisition through September 30, 2005 were $17,464. The remaining US Nutrition brands maintained
their market share in a declining market through aggressive advertising and promotions. The Company adjusted shelf space allocation between the US Nutrition brands to provide the best overall product
mix and to respond to changing market conditions. These efforts helped to maintain US Nutrition's position in the mass market. Product returns resulted in a reduction to net sales of $45,444 in fiscal
2005 as compared to $42,041 in fiscal 2004, a portion of which was associated with the decline for low carb related products, with the remaining due to reallocations of the US Nutrition brands, as
well as other normal business operations. US Nutrition continues to leverage valuable consumer sales information obtained from the Company's Vitamin World retail stores and Puritan's Pride
direct-response/e-commerce operations in order to provide its mass-market customers with data and analyses to drive mass market sales. In fiscal 2005, two customers of the
Wholesale / US Nutrition segment represented, individually, more than 10% of the Wholesale / US Nutrition segment's net sales. One of these customers is primarily a supplier to the other customer;
therefore, changes in the Company's business relationship with either customer would likely result in the loss of most of the net sales to both customers. In fiscal 2004, one customer of the Wholesale
/ US Nutrition segment represented, individually, more than 10% of the Wholesale / US Nutrition segment's net sales. While no one customer represented individually more than 10% of the Company's
consolidated net sales in fiscal 2005 or fiscal 2004, the loss of either one of these customers would have a material adverse effect on the Wholesale / US Nutrition segment if the Company is unable to
replace such customer(s).   

North American Retail    

North
American Retail net sales increased primarily due to sales from Le Naturiste ($9,089), which was acquired on February 25, 2005 (fiscal 2005), and 21 new Vitamin World retail
store openings ($2,694). The number of customers in the Savings Passport Program, a customer loyalty program, increased
approximately 1.0 million to 5.9 million customers at eth end of fiscal 2005, as compared to 4.9 million customers at the end of fiscal 2004. U.S. Retail same store sales for
stores open more than one year decreased 2.7% (or $5,341) reflecting the continued difficult specialty retail environment. As US Nutrition introduces more new products directly to the mass market, the
specialty retail channel's ability to capitalize on market trends and new products is restricted which has affected Vitamin World. The Company expects this trend to continue in the near future. During
fiscal 2005, Vitamin World opened 21 new stores, closed 36 stores and at the end of the period operated 542 stores. The Company operated 557 Vitamin World stores in the U.S. as of September 30,
2004. On February 25, 2005, the Company acquired Le Naturiste, a chain of 103 retail stores located throughout Quebec. Le Naturiste is an Eastern Canadian-based company in the business of
developing, packaging, marketing and retailing an in-house range of privately-labeled health and natural products. At September 30, 2005, the Le Naturiste chain operated 97
company-owned stores and 4 franchised stores.   

European Retail / Holland   Barrett / GNC (UK)    

European
Retail net sales increases were directly attributable to an increase in same store sales for stores open more than one year of 10.9% (or $53,136). These European Retail net
sales results include the positive effect of the exchange rate for the British Pound ($15,332 or 3.1%). In local currency, the increase in same store sales for stores open more than one year was 7.8%.
The European Retail division continues to leverage its premier status, high street locations and brand awareness to achieve these results. During fiscal 2005, the Company's European Retail division
opened 16 new stores and closed 6 stores and at the end of the period 612 stores in the U.K., Ireland and the Netherlands were   

  49  

in
operation. At September 30, 2004, 602 stores in the U.K., Ireland and the Netherlands were in operation.   

Direct Response / Puritan's Pride    

Direct
Response / Puritan's Pride net sales decreased as a result of the stagnant market for nutritional supplements, negative publicity surrounding Vitamin E and Puritan's Pride's
substantial reduction in pricing. The Company adopted this aggressive pricing strategy to maintain its customer base and to put pressure on competition. Internet orders increased as compared to the
prior like period. On-line net sales comprised 28% of this segment's net sales and increased 19.4% in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 as compared to the prior comparable
period. The Company remains the leader in the direct response and e-commerce sector and continues to increase the number of products available via its catalog and websites.   

Cost of Sales.        Cost of sales for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 is as follows:   

Gross
profit as a percentage of net sales by segment for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 is as follows:   

The
Wholesale / US Nutrition segment's gross profit as a percentage of net sales for fiscal 2005 decreased as compared to fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2005, there were $45,444 in product
returns as compared to $42,041 in product returns during fiscal 2004. A portion of product returns were associated with the contraction in the low carb product market, with the remaining due to
reallocations of the US Nutrition brands (certain non-performing Rexall brands were replaced with faster selling Nature's Bounty brand products), as well as returns in the normal course of
business. The gross profit was also affected by changes in product mix and an increase in sales incentives and promotion costs, which are recorded as reductions to gross sales. The North American
Retail gross profit decreased primarily due to heavy discounts offered in order to maintain market share. The European Retail gross profit remained consistent with the prior comparable period. Direct
Response / Puritan's Pride gross profit decreased primarily due to aggressive pricing strategy and promotions.   

  50  

Advertising, Promotion and Catalog.        Total advertising, promotion and catalog expenses for fiscal 2005
and fiscal 2004 are as follows:   

Of
the total $22,767 increase, $25,327 was attributable to the increase in promotions for products, mainly via television, magazines, newspapers and mailing programs, partially offset by
a decrease of $2,560 in catalog printing costs.   

          Total
advertising, promotion and catalog expenses by segment for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 are as follows:   

The
Wholesale / US Nutrition segment's advertising expenses increased primarily due to advertising expenses incurred related to the following brands:
Osteo-Bi-Flex , WORLDWIDE Sport Nutrition , Sundown  and Flex-a-min . The Company undertook this initiative to build
brand awareness and to retain market share in a difficult environment. The Wholesale / US
Nutrition segment's increase was partially offset by decreases in advertising expenses attributable to the Company's other segments. Investments in advertising and sales promotions are part of the
Company's strategic effort to increase market share and long-term growth.   

            Selling, General and Administrative.        Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2005 as
compared to fiscal 2004 are as follows:   

51  

The
European Retail's selling, general and administrative expenses increase of $15,177 includes $5,640 attributable to foreign exchange.   

          Selling,
general and administrative expenses by type for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 are as follows:   

The
total increase of $33,328 in selling, general and administrative expenses is attributable to the following: Payroll costs increased mainly due to recent business acquisitions and
general salary increases; rent and real estate taxes expense increased mainly associated with additional North American Retail and European Retail stores, as well as newly leased facilities; insurance
costs increased mainly associated with an increase in general insurance rates; freight costs increased mainly resulting from the increased wholesale sales; and impairment charges (i) for the
write-down of long lived assets held and used in the Company's North American Retail locations (Vitamin World operations), and (ii) on the building held for sale resulting from the
sale of the Rexall corporate building. These increases were partially offset by a gain on the sale of business assets as a result of the Company selling certain business assets of FSC, a Manchester,
U.K. based wholesale operation which sold products to health food stores and pharmacies.   

            Goodwill impairment.        During fiscal 2005, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $7,686
for the North American Retail operations (Vitamin World operations). Impairment indicators are discussed in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II,
Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Report.   

            Interest Expense.        The major components of interest expense are interest on the outstanding Senior
Subordinated Notes, and interest on amounts outstanding under the CGA used for acquisitions, capital expenditures and other working capital needs. Interest expense for fiscal 2005 as compared to
fiscal 2004 is as follows:   

Interest
expense increased due to an increase in the annual borrowing rate for the Term Loan C (5.875% at September 30, 2005 as compared to 3.75% at September 30, 2004),
offset by principal repayments of borrowings under the CGA ($17,368 reduction to principal). Included in the interest expense for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 is a charge of $790 in
connection with the early   

  52  

extinguishment
of the 2007 Notes. The charge included a write-off of approximately $620 representing the unamortized portion of debt issuance costs and $170 representing the unamortized
bond discount associated with the original issuance. In addition, interest expense for the current fiscal year increased due to an interest payment ($1,341) made as a result of the Company settling
its working capital dispute in connection with the Rexall acquisition. On December 19, 2003, the Company refinanced $224,000 of Term B loans outstanding under its July 2003 credit
agreement with a new class of Term C loans on more favorable terms of LIBOR plus 2%. Costs of approximately $500 were paid on December 19, 2003, in connection with this debt refinancing, which
will be amortized until Term C's maturity of approximately six years. On August 1, 2005, in connection with the Company's acquisition of Solgar , the Company amended and restated
its existing CGA by adding a new Term Loan A of $120,000 and increasing its existing Revolving Credit Facility from $100,000 to $125,000. Costs of $1,147 were paid in connection with this amendment
and restatement of the Company's CGA. At September 30, 2005, the CGA consisted of a $125,000 Revolving Credit Facility, which had borrowings outstanding of $6,000, a Term Loan C, which had
borrowings outstanding of $138,163 and a Term Loan A, which had borrowings outstanding of $75,419. Interest rates charged on borrowings can vary depending on the interest rate option utilized. Options
for the rate can either be the Alternate Base Rate or LIBOR, plus applicable margin. At September 30, 2005 the annual borrowing rate for Term Loan C approximated 5.875%, the annual borrowing
rate for Term Loan A approximated 5.25% and the annual borrowing rate for the Revolving Credit Facility approximated 7.75%.   

Miscellaneous, net.        Miscellaneous, net for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 is as follows:   

Miscellaneous,
net increased in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 as follows::   

Income Taxes.        Income tax expense for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004, and the respective
effective income tax rates, is as follows:   

The
Company's income tax expense is impacted by a number of factors, including federal taxes, its international tax structure, state tax rates in the jurisdictions where the Company
conducts business, and the Company's ability to utilize state tax credits that expire primarily between 2013 and 2016.   

  53  

Therefore,
the Company's overall effective income tax rate could vary as a result of these factors. No income tax benefit was attributed to the goodwill impairment charge of $7,686. This charge
impacted the effective income tax rate for fiscal 2005 by 2.1%. Excluding the effect of the goodwill impairment charge for fiscal 2005, the effective income tax rates are generally less than the U.S.
federal statutory tax rate primarily due to the enhanced tax structure of foreign subsidiaries which could also continue to impact future fiscal years.   

          In
October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (Act) became effective in the U.S. Two provisions of the Act may impact the Company's provision for income taxes in future
periods, namely those related to the Qualified Production Activities Deduction (QPA) and Foreign Earnings Repatriation (FER). The QPA will be effective for the Company's U.S. federal tax return year
beginning after September 30, 2005. Due to the interaction of the law's provisions as well as the particulars of the Company's tax position, the ultimate effect of the QPA on the Company's
future provision for income taxes is not deemed to be significant. The FER provision of the Act provides generally for a one-time 85 percent dividends received deduction for
qualifying repatriations of foreign earnings to the U.S. The Company has completed its evaluation of the application of the FER provision and determined that it will realize a benefit by repatriating
funds in accordance with the FER provision. As such, the Company developed a Domestic Reinvestment Plan to reinvest the repatriated funds in the U.S. in qualifying activities, pursuant to the terms of
the FER
provision and subsequent guidance issued by the IRS. This plan calls for the repatriation of up to $100 million during the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006. A portion of the
repatriation includes foreign earnings related to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 and to earlier fiscal years. The Company recorded a net benefit of $884 on the unremitted earnings
from the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 and earlier fiscal years as a result of the FER provision. The majority of the repatriation is expected to come from projected foreign earnings for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006. It is impractical to calculate the exact amount of earnings and exact tax impact that the Company may realize from the repatriation of 2006 earnings.
As such, no incremental tax impact has been recorded in fiscal 2005 with respect to these earnings.   

Net Income.        After income taxes, the Company's net income for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004,
and the respective basic and diluted earnings per share, is as follows:   

Seasonality     

          Although the Company believes that its business is not seasonal in nature, historically, the Company has experienced, and expects to continue to experience, a
substantial variation in its net sales and
operating results from quarter to quarter. The Company believes that the factors which influence this variability of quarterly results include general economic and industry conditions that affect
consumer spending, changing consumer demands and current news on nutritional supplements, the timing of the Company's introduction of new products, promotional program incentives offered to customers,
the timing of catalog promotions, the level of consumer acceptance of each new product, the seasonality of the markets in which the Company participates, and actions of competitors. Accordingly, a
comparison of the Company's results of operations from consecutive periods is not necessarily meaningful, and the Company's results of operations for any period are not necessarily indicative of
future performance. Additionally, the Company may experience higher net sales in a quarter depending upon when it has engaged in significant promotional activities.   

  54  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements     

          The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on its financial condition,
changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors, except for the financing commitments
previously discussed.   

   Indemnification of Officers and Directors     

          The Company is incorporated under the laws of Delaware. Section 145(a) of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL") provides that a
corporation may indemnify officers and directors of the corporation against expenses incurred by them if they acted in good faith and in a manner they reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to
the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceedings, if they had no reasonable cause to believe that their conduct was unlawful.   

As
permitted by the DGCL, the Company has provided in its certificate of incorporation for the indemnification to the full extent permitted by Section 145 of the DGCL of the
persons whom may be indemnified pursuant thereto. Further, the Company has provided in its certificate of incorporation that a director of the corporation shall not be personally liable to the
corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or
its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omission not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the DGCL, or
(iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.   

   Liquidity and Capital Resources     

          At September 30, 2006 the Company's primary sources of liquidity and capital resources are cash generated from operations and a $125,000 Revolving Credit
Facility maintained by the Company under its Credit   Guarantee Agreement ("CGA"). On November 3, 2006, the Company entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement")
which provides for revolving credit loans in the
aggregate principal amount of up to $325,000 to be used for (a) the repayment of all obligations outstanding under the Company's prior credit agreement (which consisted solely of commitment
fees since the Company had previously repaid all amounts borrowed under the prior credit agreement), (b) working capital and other general corporate purposes, and (c) acquisitions. In
connection with the Credit Agreement, the Company's prior CGA was terminated. See below for further discussion regarding the Company's CGA during fiscal 2006. The Company's principal uses of cash have
been for working capital purposes, facility expansions, acquisitions, capital expenditures and debt service requirements. The Company anticipates these uses will continue to be its principal uses of
cash in the future.   

The
following table sets forth, for the years indicated, the Company's period-end cash and cash equivalents, cash and cash equivalents held by its foreign subsidiaries,
working capital and other operating measures:   

55  

The
Company monitors current and anticipated future levels of cash and cash equivalents in relation to anticipated operating, financing and investing requirements. Cash and cash
equivalents held by the Company's foreign subsidiaries are subject to U.S. income taxation on repatriation to the U.S. The Company currently repatriates all earnings from its foreign subsidiaries
where permitted under local law.   

          The
decrease in working capital for fiscal 2006 was primarily due to decreases in current assets including investments, inventories, and prepaid and other current assets offset partially
by an increase in accounts receivable, and a decrease in the current portion of long-term debt. The decline in investments is attributable to the Company liquidating and utilizing all of
its investment in auction rate securities of $39,900 to fund a portion of the remaining amounts due under the 8 5 / 8 % Notes redemption. On October 24, 2005, the Company redeemed
the remaining $75,542 aggregate principal amount of the 8 5 / 8 % Notes outstanding. The significant decline in inventory reflects the Company's ongoing efforts to lower inventories while
assuring its customers uninterrupted supply of product. The annualized inventory turnover rate was approximately 2.54 times during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, compared with 2.22
times during the prior comparable period. This increase is primarily due to the decreased inventory levels as compared to the prior comparable period. Prepaid and other current assets decreased
primarily due to the normal amortization of prepaid insurance costs (annual policies renew each year in July). Accounts receivable increased due to increased sales in the turnover period as well as a
decrease in sales related allowances. The annualized number of average days sales outstanding (on wholesale net sales and net accounts receivable plus allowance for doubtful accounts) at
September 30, 2006, was 38 days, compared with 43 days at September 30, 2005. This decrease in days sales outstanding related to improved collection efforts and integration
of acquisitions. The decline in the current portion of long-term debt primarily reflects the payment on October 24, 2005 whereby the Company redeemed the remaining $75,542 aggregate
principal amount of the 8 5 / 8 % Notes outstanding, as well as accelerated term loan debt repayments on Term Loan A and C in full during fiscal 2006.   

          The
following table sets forth, for the years indicated, the Company's net cash flows provided by (used in) operating, investing and financing activities:   

The
overall increase in cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2006 was mainly attributable to increased net income, changes in operating assets and liabilities discussed
above and non-cash charges.   

  56  

The
following table sets forth, for the years indicated, cash provided by (used in) investing activities:   

Fiscal
2006 cash flows provided by investing activities consisted primarily of proceeds from the sale of auction rate securities, cash received from the seller in connection with the
Solgar acquisition final net asset calculation and proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment, offset by the purchase of property, plant and equipment (of which approximately $8,801 was
attributable to the expansion of the soft-gel facility and $7,692 was attributable to a new manufacturing facility currently being constructed in Augusta, Georgia). During fiscal 2004, the
Company began a $21,000 expansion of its soft-gel facility in Bayport, New York, which was completed in February 2006. As a
result of this expansion, the Bayport facility is now able to produce approximately 8.3 billion tablets, capsules and soft-gels per year.   

          Fiscal
2005 cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of the purchase of property, plant and equipment (of which $19,624 was attributable to a new distribution facility in
Hazleton, PA and $14,973 was attributable to a new manufacturing facility under construction in Augusta, Georgia), cash paid for acquisitions (Le Naturiste, SISU and Solgar), net of cash acquired, the
purchase of auction rate securities, the purchase of industrial revenue bonds, cash paid in connection with the Rexall acquisition dispute settlement, offset by proceeds from the sale of property,
plant and equipment held for sale (mainly due to the sale of the Rexall building), proceeds from the sale of certain business assets of FSC, a Manchester, U.K. based wholesale operation which sold
products to health food stores and pharmacies and the cash settlement received from the GNC (UK) purchase price dispute.   

          Fiscal
2004 cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of purchases of property, plant and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of property, plant and
equipment and proceeds from the sale of investment in bonds.   

  57  

The
following table sets forth, for the years indicated, cash (used in) provided by financing activities:   

Fiscal
2006 cash flows used in financing activities related to principal payments under long-term debt agreements (payments primarily related to the final redemption of the
8 5 / 8 % notes of $75,542, the partial early extinguishment of the 7 1 / 8 % Notes of $9,575, principal payments of $75,419 and $138,163 against Term Loan A and Term Loan C,
respectively, and the pay down of the Company's variable rate mortgage of $12,878) and net payments under the Revolving Credit Facility, offset by proceeds from short-term borrowings under
its multi-currency loan agreement, proceeds from borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, proceeds from settlement of an interest rate swap, and the proceeds and related tax benefit from the
exercise of stock options.   

          Fiscal
2005 net cash flows provided by financing activities included proceeds from the Company's bond offering, net of discount, proceeds from sale-leaseback, proceeds from
borrowings under long-term debt agreements, net proceeds from borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility and the exercise of stock options, offset by principal payments under
long-term debt agreements, payments related to bond issuance costs and the purchase of treasury stock.   

          Fiscal
2004 net cash flows used in financing activities included principal payments under long-term debt agreements and payments related to financing fees, partially offset
by proceeds from the exercise of stock options.   

          On
August 13, 2006, the Company entered into a purchase agreement to acquire 100% of the stock of Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc. ("ZNI"), a division of Zila, Inc.
("Zila"), for $37,500 in cash and up to a $3,000 contingent cash payment which is based upon the EBITDA performance of ZNI during the one-year period following the closing. The $37,500
purchase price includes an estimated $6,800 of working capital and is subject to a post-closing adjustment based on the final ZNI working capital at closing. ZNI manufactures and markets
Ester-C , which is known throughout multiple markets including health food stores and mass market retailers. This acquisition represents an opportunity for the Company to
enhance its presence in key markets. ZNI had $18,000 in net revenue for the nine months ended April 30, 2006. On September 27, 2006, Zila shareholders approved this transaction and on
October 2, 2006, the Company completed this acquisition. The $37,500 purchase price was paid by the Company out of cash on hand.   

  58  

The
Company believes its sources of cash will be sufficient to fund its operations and meet its cash requirements to satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditure needs,
outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 18 to 24 months. The Company's ability to fund these requirements and comply with
financial covenants under its debt agreements will depend on its future operations, performance and cash flow and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other
factors, some of which are beyond the Company's control. In addition, as part of the Company's strategy, it may pursue acquisitions and investments that are complementary to its business. Any material
future acquisitions or investments will likely require additional capital and therefore, the Company cannot predict or assure that additional funds from existing sources will be sufficient for such
future events.   

    Debt Agreements:      

          At September 30, 2006, the Company maintained Senior Secured Credit Facilities under its Credit and Guarantee Agreement ("CGA") consisting of a $125,000
Revolving Credit Facility, which had no borrowings outstanding, and a Term Loan A and Term Loan C, which were fully repaid as of September 30, 2006. The Revolving Credit Facility was scheduled
to mature in July 2008, however, on November 3, 2006, the Company entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") which provides for revolving credit loans in the
aggregate principal amount of up to $325,000 to be used for (a) the repayment of all obligations outstanding under the Company's prior credit agreement (which consisted solely of commitment
fees since the Company had previously repaid all amounts borrowed under the prior credit agreement), (b) working capital and other general corporate purposes, and (c) acquisitions. In
connection with the Credit Agreement, the Company's prior CGA was terminated.   

          Interest
rates charged on borrowings under the CGA can vary depending on the interest rate option utilized. Options for the rate can either be the Alternate Base Rate or LIBOR plus
applicable margin. At September 30, 2006 there were no borrowings outstanding under the CGA.   

          In
September 2005, the Company issued 10-year 7 1 / 8 % Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 in the aggregate principal amount of $200,000 (the
"7 1 / 8 % Notes"). The 7 1 / 8 % Notes are uncollaterized and subordinated in right of payment for all existing and future indebtedness of the Company. The 7 1 / 8 %
Notes are subject to redemption, at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time on or after October 1, 2010, and prior to maturity at certain fixed redemption prices plus
accrued interest. In addition, on or prior to October 1, 2008, the Company may redeem in the aggregate up to 35% of the 7 1 / 8 % Notes with the net cash proceeds received by the
Company from certain types of equity offerings, at a redemption value equal to 107.125% of the principal amount plus accrued interest, provided that at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of
notes remain outstanding immediately after any such redemption. The notes do not have any sinking fund requirements. Interest is paid semi-annually on every April 1 st 
and October 1 st  at the rate of 7 1 / 8 % per annum.   

          In
March 2006, the Company purchased, on the open market, $10,000 face value of the 7 1 / 8 % Notes for $9,575. The Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of
$425 and wrote-off $264 of the related unamortized deferred financing fees for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 as a result of this transaction. Interest payments relating
to such debt approximates $13,538 per annum, after the recent extinguishment of $10,000 face value of these notes.   

On
August 25, 2005, the Company initiated a cash tender offer (the "Offer") for any and all of its $150,000 aggregate principal amount of the 8 5 / 8 % Senior
Subordinated Notes due 2007. The redemption price was equal to $1,000 per $1,000 principal amount of the 8 5 / 8 % Notes validly tendered, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption
date. On September 23, 2005, the Company announced the expiration of the Offer with a total of $74,458 aggregate principal amount of the 8 5 / 8 % Notes tendered, representing
approximately 49.6% of the outstanding 8 5 / 8 % Notes. On September 23, 2005, the   

  59  

Company
accepted and paid for the $74,458 aggregate principal amount of 8 5 / 8 % Notes tendered. On October 24, 2005, the Company redeemed the remaining $75,542 aggregate principal
amount of the 8 5 / 8 % Notes outstanding. On such date, the Company paid $706 representing the remaining accrued interest due to the 8 5 / 8 % Note holders and recorded a charge
of $802 to interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income representing the unamortized portion of debt issuance costs and bond discount associated with the original issuance. Also, on
October 24, 2005, the Company liquidated and utilized all of its investment in auction rate securities of $39,900 to pay a portion of the remaining redemption value.   

          On
August 31, 2005, the Company entered into a variable rate mortgage with JP Morgan Chase Bank ("variable rate mortgage") for a loan in the amount of $12,950 which was payable in
monthly principal installments of $72 plus interest at LIBOR plus 1.5%. The mortgage was scheduled to mature on August 31, 2015, however, the entire outstanding balance was repaid in full
during the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006. On August 31, 2005, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement ("SWAP") to receive-variable (LIBOR), pay-fixed
(4.71%) interest which effectively converted the $12,950 mortgage to fixed rate debt. The Company recorded the fair value change in the value of the SWAP through Other Comprehensive Income ("OCI"),
net of tax. In fiscal 2006, the SWAP was extinguished and the Company realized a gain of $353.   

          Virtually
all of the Company's assets are collateralized under the CGA. Under the CGA, the Company is obligated to maintain various financial ratios and covenants must be met, including,
but not limited to, a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. The specific covenants and related definitions can be found in the CGA, which has been previously filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA, which is a factor utilized in calculating covenant ratios, is defined as net income, excluding the aggregate amount of all
non-cash losses reducing net income (excluding any non-cash losses that results in an accrual of a reserve for cash charges in any future period and the reversal thereof), plus
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility, which varies between .25% and .50% per annum,
depending on the Company's ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, on any unused portion of the revolving credit facility.   

          On
November 3, 2006, the Company entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent,
and Bank of America, N.A., BNP Paribas, Citibank, N.A., and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as Co-Syndication Agents. The Credit Agreement provides for revolving credit loans in the
aggregate principal amount of up to $325,000 to be used for (a) the repayment of all obligations
outstanding under the Company's prior credit agreement (which consisted solely of commitment fees since the Company had previously repaid all amounts borrowed under the prior credit agreement),
(b) working capital and other general corporate purposes, and (c) acquisitions. In connection with the Credit Agreement, the Company's prior credit agreement was terminated. The terms
and requirements of the Credit Agreement are substantially the same as the CGA. The Company's obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of its assets and are guaranteed
by certain subsidiaries of NBTY, in each case to the extent set forth in the Guarantee and Collateral Agreement (the "Guarantee") that was entered into on November 3, 2006. The Company is
required to pay a commitment fee, which varies between .20% and .375% per annum, depending on the Company's ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, on any unused portion of
the revolving credit facility.   

          The
Company's credit arrangements, generally the indenture governing the 7 1 / 8 % Notes ("Indenture") and the CGA, impose certain restrictions on the Company regarding
capital expenditures and limit the Company's ability to do any of the following: incur additional indebtedness, dispose of assets, make repayments of indebtedness or amendments of debt instruments,
pay dividends or distributions, create liens on assets and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, investments, loans or advances and acquisitions. Such restrictions are subject to certain
limitations and exclusions.   

  60  

In addition, a default under certain covenants in the Indenture and the CGA, respectively, could result in the acceleration of the Company's payment obligations under the CGA and the
Indenture, as the case may be, and, under certain circumstances, in cross-defaults under other debt obligations. These defaults may have a negative effect on the Company's liquidity.   

SINCE
ADJUSTED EBITDA IS NOT A MEASURE OF PERFORMANCE CALCULATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH U.S. GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES ("GAAP"), IT SHOULD NOT BE CONSIDERED IN ISOLATION OF,
OR AS A SUBSTITUTE FOR OR SUPERIOR TO, OTHER MEASURES OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH GAAP, SUCH AS OPERATING INCOME, NET INCOME AND CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES. IN
ADDITION, THE COMPANY'S DEFINITION OF ADJUSTED EBITDA IS NOT NECESSARILY COMPARABLE TO SIMILARLY TITLED MEASURES REPORTED BY OTHER COMPANIES.   

             A summary of contractual cash obligations as of September 30, 2006 is as follows:   

The
Company conducts retail operations under operating leases, which expire at various dates through the year 2031. Some of the leases contain escalation clauses, as well as renewal
options, and provide for contingent rent based upon sales plus certain tax and maintenance costs. Future minimum rental payments (excluding real estate tax and maintenance costs) for retail locations
and other leases that have initial or noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year at September 30, 2006 are noted in the above table.   

          In
August 2005, the Company entered into a sale-leaseback transaction pursuant to which it sold certain manufacturing assets and its manufacturing facility located in
Augusta, Georgia for a total purchase price of $14,973. The purchase price consisted of $14,973 in cash which was simultaneously invested and is subject to an Industrial Revenue Bonds (IRB's)
financing agreement. This agreement is intended to permit counties to attract business investment by offering property tax incentives. In accordance with Georgia law, the Company entered into this
sale-leaseback agreement with Richmond County (the "County") and acquired an Industrial Development Revenue Bond. The arrangement is structured so that the Company's lease payments to the
County equal and offset the County's bond payments to the Company. The Bond is non-recourse to the County, the Company's lease payments are pledged to secure repayment of the Bond, and the
lease and bond provide for the legal right of offset. Consequently, in accordance with Financial Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts," the investment and
lease obligation related to this arrangement have been offset in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. The agreement has a maximum expiration date of 2025. Under the terms of the agreement, the
Company must annually submit information regarding the value of the machinery and equipment in service in the County. If the Company had not entered into this transaction, property tax payments would
have been higher. The Company can reacquire such property and terminate the agreement at a nominal price of $1 and, accordingly, the subject property is included   

  61  

in
property, plant, and equipment in the consolidated balance sheet. If the Company elects to reacquire the subject property prior to the expiration of the arrangement, it may also be required to make
certain adjusting property tax payments.   

          The
Company was committed to make future purchases primarily for inventory related items, such as raw materials and finished goods, under various purchase arrangements with fixed price
provisions aggregating approximately $78,932 at September 30, 2006. During fiscal 2006, no one supplier individually represented greater than 10% of the Company's raw material purchases. The
Company does not believe that the loss of any single supplier would have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition or results of operations.   

The
Company had approximately $1,487 in open capital commitments at September 30, 2006, primarily related to manufacturing equipment as well as to computer hardware and software.   

          The
Company has employment agreements with two of its executive officers. The agreements, initially entered into in October 2002, each have a term of 5 years and are
automatically renewed each year thereafter unless either party notifies the other to the contrary. These agreements provide for minimum salary levels and contain provisions regarding severance and
changes in control of the Company. The annual commitment for salaries to these two officers as of September 30, 2006 was approximately $1,300. In addition, five members of Holland  
Barrett's senior executive staff have service contracts terminable by the Company upon twelve months notice. The annual aggregate commitment for such H B executive staff as of September 30,
2006 was approximately $1,497.   

          The
Company maintains a consulting agreement with Rudolph Management Associates, Inc. for the services of Arthur Rudolph, a director of the Company. The consulting fee (which is
paid monthly) is fixed by the Board of Directors of the Company, provided that in no event will the consulting fee be at a rate lower than $450 per year. In addition, Mr. Arthur Rudolph
receives certain fringe benefits accorded to executives of the Company.   

          The
Company has grown through acquisitions, and expects to continue seeking to acquire entities in similar or complementary businesses. Such acquisitions are likely to require the
incurrence and/or assumption of indebtedness and/or obligations, the issuance of equity securities or some combination thereof. In addition, the Company may from time to time determine to sell or
otherwise dispose of certain of its existing assets or businesses. The Company cannot predict if any such transactions will be consummated, nor the terms or forms of consideration which might be
required in any such transactions.   

Related Party Transactions     

          The Company has had, and in the future may continue to have, business transactions with individuals and firms affiliated with certain of the Company's directors
and officers. Each such transaction has been in the ordinary course of the Company's business.   

          During
the fiscal 2006, the following transactions occurred:   

A.    Gail
Radvin, Inc., a corporation wholly-owned by Gail Radvin, received sales commissions from the Company totaling $677. Gail Radvin is the sister of Arthur Rudolph (a director
of the Company) and the aunt of Scott Rudolph (Chairman and Chief Executive Officer).
      B.    The
Company paid $450 to Rudolph Management Associates, Inc., pursuant to the Consulting Agreement between the Company and Rudolph Management Associates, Inc.
Mr. Arthur Rudolph, a director of the Company and father of Scott Rudolph (Chairman and Chief Executive Officer), is the President of Rudolph Management Associates, Inc. In addition,
Mr. Arthur Rudolph received certain fringe benefits accorded to executives of the Company.    
 
  62  

C.    In
addition to matters set forth in A. above, certain members of the immediate families (as defined in Rule 404 of Regulation S-K) of Arthur Rudolph, Scott
Rudolph and Michael Slade (each a director of the Company) are employed by the Company. During fiscal 2006, these immediate family members received aggregate compensation and fringes from the Company
totaling approximately $1,119 for services rendered by them as employees of the Company.    

Inflation     

          Inflation affects the cost of raw materials, goods and services used by the Company. In recent years, inflation has been modest. However, high oil costs can
affect the cost of all raw materials and components. The competitive environment somewhat limits the ability of the Company to recover higher costs resulting from inflation by raising prices. Although
the Company cannot precisely determine the effects of inflation on its business, it is management's belief that the effects on revenues and operating results have not been significant. The Company
seeks to mitigate the adverse effects of inflation primarily through improved productivity and strategic buying initiatives. The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material impact on
its results of operations for the periods presented, except with respect to payroll-related costs and other costs arising from or related to government imposed regulations.   

   Financial Covenants and Credit Rating     

          The Company's credit arrangements impose certain restrictions on the Company regarding capital expenditures and limit the Company's ability to: incur additional
indebtedness, dispose of assets, make repayments of indebtedness or amendments of debt instruments, pay distributions, create liens on assets and enter into sale and leaseback transactions,
investments, loans or advances and acquisitions. Such restrictions could limit the Company's ability to respond to market conditions, to provide for unanticipated capital investments or to take
advantage of business or acquisition opportunities. The Company is in compliance with all covenants under its credit arrangements at September 30, 2006.   

          At
September 30, 2006, credit ratings were as follows:   

Credit Rating Agency      
     
   7 1 / 8  Notes    
     
   CGA    
     
   Overall    

Standard and Poors  
     
  B+  
     
  BB  
     
  BB  

Moody's  
     
  B1  
     
  Ba2  

New Accounting Developments     

Accounting pronouncements newly issued:      

In September 2006, the Securities Exchange Commission ("SEC") staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 108, "Considering the Effects of
Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements" ("SAB 108"). In SAB 108, the SEC staff established an approach that requires quantification of
financial statement misstatements based on the effects of the misstatements on each of the company's financial statements and the related financial statement disclosures. SAB 108 permits
existing public companies to initially apply its provisions either by (i) restating prior financial statements or (ii) recording the cumulative effect as adjustments to the carrying
values of assets and liabilities with an offsetting adjustment recorded to the opening balance of retained earnings. The Company is required to adopt this statement starting in its fiscal 2007
reporting period and does not anticipate that the adoption will have a significant impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

          In
September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements"
("SFAS 157"). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting   

  63  

principles,
and enhances disclosures about fair value measurements. This statement applies when other accounting pronouncements require fair value measurements; it does not require new fair value
measurements. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those years. The Company will adopt
SFAS 157 on October 1, 2008. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this standard in its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.   

          The
FASB ratified the consensuses reached in Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF" or, the "Task Force") Issue No. 06-3, "How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted
to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation)" ("EITF 06-3"). The Task Force reached a consensus that the scope of the
Issue includes any tax assessed by a governmental authority that is both imposed on and current with a specific revenue-producing transaction between a seller and a customer, and may include, but is
not limited to, sales, use, value added, and some excise taxes. The scope of this Issue excludes tax schemes that are based on gross receipts and taxes that are imposed during the inventory
procurement process. The presentation of taxes within the scope of this Issue on either a gross or a net basis is an accounting policy decision that should be disclosed under Accounting Principles
Board ("APB") Opinion No. 22, "Disclosure of Accounting Policies." Furthermore, for taxes reported on a gross basis, a company should disclose the aggregate amount of those taxes in interim and
annual financial statements for each period for which an income statement is presented if that amount is significant. The disclosures required under this consensus should be applied retrospectively to
interim and annual financial statements for all periods presented, if those amounts are significant. The consensus in EITF 06-3 should be applied to interim and annual reporting periods
beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company will adopt EITF 06-3 on January 1, 2007, the second fiscal quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. The
Company does not anticipate that the adoption will have a significant impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

          In
June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109."
("FIN 48"). This Interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in tax positions and requires that the Company recognize in its financial statements, the impact of a tax position, if that
position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position and provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting
in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. This Interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 on
October 1, 2007, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of
adopting FIN 48 in its consolidated financial statements.   

          On
November 10, 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. FAS 123(R)-3, "Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based
Payment Awards"
("FSP 123(R)-3"). See "Stock-Based Compensation" discussion within Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Report for further detail regarding FSP 123(R)-3.   

          In
May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections" ("SFAS 154"), which replaces APB Opinion No. 20, "Accounting Changes,"
and FASB Statement No. 3, "Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements." APB Opinion No. 20 had required that changes in accounting principles be recognized by including
the cumulative effect of the change in the period in which the new accounting principle was adopted. SFAS 154 requires retrospective application of the change to prior periods' financial
statements, unless it is impracticable to determine the period-specific effects of the change. The FASB identified the reason for the issuance of SFAS 154 to be part of a broader attempt to
eliminate differences with the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"). The Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The   

  64  

Company
is required to adopt this statement starting in its fiscal 2007 reporting period. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of SFAS 154 will have a significant impact on the
Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

Accounting pronouncements adopted:      

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments-an amendment of FASB Statements
No. 133 and 140" ("SFAS 155"). SFAS 155 permits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require
bifurcation, clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133, establishes a requirement to evaluate
interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation,
clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives, and amends SFAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special-purpose entity
from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial instrument. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments
acquired or issued after the beginning of an entity's first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. The Company adopted SFAS 155 beginning October 1, 2006. The adoption
did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

          Effective
October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123(R)"). See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Report for further detail regarding the adoption of this standard.   

          In
October 2005, the FASB issued Staff Position FAS 13-1, "Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred during a Construction Period" ("FSP 13-1"), which
requires rental costs associated with ground or building operating leases that are incurred during a construction period to be recognized as rental expense. The Company adopted FSP 13-1
beginning the second quarter of fiscal year 2006. The adoption did not have a significant effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations since the Company always
expensed such costs.   

          In
March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations" ("FIN 47"). FIN 47 provides guidance relating to the
identification of and financial reporting for legal obligations to perform an asset retirement activity. The Interpretation requires recognition of a liability for the fair value of a conditional
asset retirement obligation when incurred if the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 also defines when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the
fair value of an asset retirement obligation. The Company adopted FIN 47 beginning the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated
financial position or results of operations.   

          In
November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs" an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin ("ARB") No. 43, to clarify the accounting for abnormal
amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). This Statement requires that those items be recognized as current-period charges regardless of whether they
meet the criterion of "so abnormal." In addition, this Statement requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production
facilities. The Company adopted SFAS 151 beginning the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results
of operations.   

          In
October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") became effective in the United States. Two provisions of the Act have impacted the Company's effective tax
rate. The Act   

  65  

contains
a new provision that permits a Qualified Production Activities Deduction ("QPA") related to the Company's qualified manufacturing activity. The QPA deduction is available to the Company
beginning with the current tax year. However, the interaction of the law's provisions as well as the particulars of the Company's tax position, resulted in the QPA deduction not having a significant
impact for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006.   

          The
Act also contains a provision related to Foreign Earnings Repatriation ("FER"). The FER provision of the Act provides generally for a one-time 85 percent dividends
received deduction for qualifying repatriations of foreign earnings to the United States. The Company has completed its evaluation of the application of the FER provision, which resulted in a
significantly lower tax cost by repatriating foreign earnings in accordance with the FER provision. As such, the Company has developed a Domestic Reinvestment Plan to reinvest the repatriated foreign
earnings in the U.S. in
qualifying activities, pursuant to the terms of the FER provision and subsequent guidance issued by the IRS. During fiscal 2006, the Company repatriated $116,603 of foreign earnings pursuant to a
domestic reinvestment plan authorized by the Company's Board of Directors. A portion of the repatriation includes foreign earnings related to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 and to
earlier fiscal years. The Company estimated and recorded a net benefit of $884 on unremitted earnings from the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 and earlier fiscal years. This benefit was
recorded in the provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005.   

The
majority of the repatriation comes from foreign earnings for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006. As the Company has principally repatriated foreign earnings in prior
years, it is essentially repatriating current year foreign earnings at a more beneficial rate under the American Jobs Creations Act of 2004. The Company recorded a benefit of $11,289 through its tax
provision for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 relating to the FER provision.   

   Item 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     

          The Company is subject to currency fluctuations, primarily with respect to the British Pound, the Euro and the Canadian dollar, and interest rate risks that arise
from normal business operations. The Company regularly assesses these risks. As of September 30, 2006, the Company had not entered into any significant hedging transactions.   

          The
Company has subsidiaries whose operations are denominated in foreign currencies (primarily the British Pound, the Euro and the Canadian dollar). The Company consolidates the earnings
of its international subsidiaries by translating them into U.S. dollars in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 52, "Foreign Currency Translation" ("SFAS 52"). The
statements of income of the Company's international operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against
foreign currencies, the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries results in increased net sales, operating expenses and net income. Similarly, the Company's net sales, operating
expenses and net income will decrease when the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies.   

          The
U.S. dollar volume of net sales denominated in foreign currencies was approximately $651,105, or 34.6% of total net sales, for fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2006, the U.S. dollar
weakened approximately 3.3% against the foreign currencies, mainly the British Pound, as compared to the prior comparable period, resulting in a decrease in net sales of approximately $18,918 and a
decrease in operating income of approximately $4,807 for fiscal 2006. The related impact on basic and diluted earnings per share was a decrease of $0.04 for the same period. The Company estimates that
a 10% change in the average foreign currencies exchange rates would have impacted the Company's operating income by approximately $14,626.   

          To
manage the potential loss arising from changing interest rates and its impact on long-term debt, the Company's policy is to manage interest rate risks by maintaining a
combination of fixed and   

  66  

variable
rate financial instruments. Since the Company had no significant variable rate debt outstanding at September 30, 2006, management believes that a significant fluctuation in interest
rates in the near future will not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. With the exception of long-term debt (see
Note 9 Long-Term Debt), the carrying value of the Company's financial instruments approximates fair value due to their short maturities and variable interest rates. The
fair value of the 7 1 / 8 % Senior Subordinated Notes at September 30, 2006, based on then quoted market prices, was $182,400.   

          The
Company is exposed to changes in interest rates on its floating rate Credit Agreement and fixed rate Notes. At September 30, 2006, based on a hypothetical 10% decrease in
interest rates related to the Company's fixed rate Notes, the Company estimates that the fair value of its fixed rate debt would have increased by approximately $6,326. Conversely, based on a
hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates related to the Company's fixed rate Notes at September 30, 2006, the Company estimates that the fair value of its fixed rate debt would have
decreased by approximately $5,927. At September 30, 2006 the Company had no borrowings outstanding under its CGA. A hypothetical 10% change in interest rates would not have a material effect on
the Company's consolidated pretax income or cash flow.   

   Item 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA     

          The following consolidated financial statements, notes thereto, supplementary schedule, and the related independent auditors' reports contained on
pages F-1 through F-3 to NBTY's consolidated financial statements, are herein incorporated:   

Reports
of Independent Registered Accounting Firms.   

  Consolidated
Balance Sheets As of September 30, 2006 and 2005.   

  Consolidated
Statements of Income Fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004.   

  Consolidated
Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income Fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004.   

  Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows Fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004.   

  Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  Schedules II,
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.   

All
other schedules have been omitted as not required or not applicable or because the information required to be presented are included in the consolidated financial statements and
related notes.   

          For
more information, see Part IV, Item 15, Exhibits, below.   

   Item 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE     

None.   

  67  

Item 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     

Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded, based on their respective evaluations as of the end of the period covered by this Report,
that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) are effective for recording, processing, summarizing and
reporting, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms, the information required to be disclosed in the reports we file under the Exchange Act.   

          Our
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting will prevent
all errors or all instances of fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met.
Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent
limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These
inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls also can be circumvented by the
individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the
likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitation of a cost-effective control system,
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.   

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING            

          Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive and principal
financial officers and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and includes those policies and procedures that:   

(i)    pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets;
      (ii)    provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorization of our management and Board of Directors; and
      (iii)    provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect
on the financial statements.    

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

          Our
management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO") in Internal Control-   

  68  

Integrated
Framework. Based on this assessment and those criteria, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2006.   

          Our
management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers,
LLP, an independent accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.   

  NBTY, Inc. 
December 11, 2006   

  69  

Item 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION     

          None   

PART III            

   Item 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT     

Information about our directors may be found under the caption "Proposal 1. Election of Directors" of our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, expected to be held February 9, 2007 (the "Proxy Statement"). That information is incorporated herein by reference.   

          The
information in the Proxy Statement under the captions "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance," "Executive Officers," "Audit Committee Financial Expert" and
"Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers" is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     

          The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Executive Compensation," "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and
"Compensation of Directors" is incorporated herein by reference.   

   Item 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS 
AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS     

          The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption "Principal Stockholders and Security Ownership of Management" is incorporated herein by
reference.   

   Item 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS     

          The information set forth under the captions "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.   

   Item 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES     

          Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears in the Proxy Statement under the heading "Report of the Audit Committee Audit
Fees" and is incorporated herein by reference.   

  70  

PART IV            

   Item 15.    EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES     

(a)(1)       Financial Statements.       Reference is made to the financial statements listed in Section 1 of the Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules in this Report.   

  (a)(2)       Financial Statement Schedule.       Reference is made to the financial statement schedule listed in Section 2 of the
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules in this Report. All other schedules have been omitted as not required, not applicable or because the information required to be presented is
included in the financial statements and related notes.   

  (a)(3)       Exhibits.       The following exhibits are filed as a part of this Report or incorporated by reference and will be furnished
to any security holder upon request for such exhibit and payment of any reasonable expenses incurred by the Company. A security holder should send requests for any of the exhibits set forth below to
NBTY, Inc., 90 Orville Drive, Bohemia, New York, 11716; Attention: General Counsel.   

Exhibit No.    
     
   Description    

3.1  
     
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of NBTY, Inc.(1)  

3.2  
     
  Amended and Restated By-Laws of NBTY, Inc.*  

4.1  
     
  Indenture, dated as of September 23, 2005, among NBTY, Inc., the Guarantors (as defined therein), and The Bank of New York, as Trustee(2)  

4.2  
     
  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 23, 2005, among NBTY, Inc., the Guarantors (as defined therein) and J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., Adams Harness, Inc., BNP Paribas Securities
Corp., HSBC Securities (USA), Inc., and RBC Capital Markets Corporation(2)  

10.1  
     
  Employment Agreement, effective October 1, 2002, by and between NBTY, Inc. and Scott Rudolph(3)  

10.2  
     
  Employment Agreement, effective October 1, 2002, by and between NBTY, Inc. and Harvey Kamil(3)  

10.3  
     
  Executive Consulting Agreement, effective January 1, 2002, by and between NBTY, Inc. and Rudolph Management Associates, Inc.(3)  

10.4  
     
  First Amendment to Executive Consulting Agreement, effective January 1, 2003, by and between NBTY, Inc. and Rudolph Management Associates, Inc.(4)  

10.5  
     
  Second Amendment to Executive Consulting Agreement, effective January 1, 2004, by and between NBTY, Inc. and Rudolph Management Associates, Inc.(5)  

10.6  
     
  Third Amendment to Executive Consulting Agreement, effective January 1, 2005, by and between NBTY, Inc. and Rudolph Management Associates, Inc.(9)  

10.7  
     
  Fourth Amendment to Executive Consulting Agreement, effective January 1, 2006, by and between NBTY, Inc., and Rudolph Management Associates, Inc.(10)  

10.8  
     
  Fifth Amendment to Executive Consulting Agreement, effective January 1, 2007, by and between NBTY, Inc., and Rudolph Management Associates, Inc.*  

10.9  
     
  NBTY, Inc. Retirement Savings and Employees' Stock Ownership Plan(1)  

10.10  
     
  NBTY, Inc. Year 2000 Incentive Stock Option Plan(6)  

10.11  
     
  NBTY, Inc. Year 2002 Stock Option Plan(7)  

10.12  
     
  Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of November 3, 2006, among NBTY, Inc., as Borrower, The Several Lenders from Time to Time Parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral
Agent, Bank of America, N.A., BNP Paribas, Citibank, N.A., and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as Co-Syndication Agents.(8)  

10.13  
     
  Guarantee and Collateral Agreement, by NBTY, Inc., the Guarantors party thereto in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, dated as of November 3, 2006(9)  

71  

*    Filed
herewith
      (1)    Incorporated
by reference to NBTY, Inc.'s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 filed on December 22, 2005
(File #001-31788).
      (2)    Incorporated
by reference to NBTY, Inc.'s Form 8-K filed on September 27, 2005 (File #001-31788).
      (3)    Incorporated
by reference to NBTY, Inc.'s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2002 filed on December 20, 2002
(File #0-10666).
      (4)    Incorporated
by reference to NBTY, Inc.'s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2003 filed on December 16, 2003
(File #001-31788).
      (5)    Incorporated
by reference to NBTY, Inc.'s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004 filed on December 14, 2004
(File #001-31788).
      (6)    Incorporated
by reference to NBTY, Inc.'s Form S-8, filed on September 20, 2000 (File #333-46188).
      (7)    Incorporated
by reference to NBTY, Inc.'s Proxy Statement, dated March 25, 2002 (File #0-10666).
      (8)    Incorporated
by reference to NBTY, Inc.'s Form 8-K, filed on November 8, 2006 (File #001-31788).
      (9)    Incorporated
by reference to NBTY, Inc.'s Form 10-Q, filed on May 9, 2005 (File #001-31788).
      (10)    Incorporated
by reference to NBTY, Inc.'s Form 10-Q, filed on February 2, 2006 (File #001-31788).

(b)    The
exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K to be filed as part of this Report or incorporated herein by reference are listed in Item 15(a)(3)
above.
      (c)    See
Item 15(a)(2) of this Report.    
  
  72  

NBTY, INC.   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE            

Page 
Number    

1. Financial Statements   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

F-1  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

F-3  

Consolidated Financial Statements   

Balance Sheets  

F-4  

Statements of Income  

F-5  

Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income  

F-6  

Statements of Cash Flows  

F-7  

Notes to Financial Statements  

F-9  

2. Financial Statement Schedule   

Schedule II  

S-1  

73  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

  To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of NBTY, Inc.:   

          We
have completed an integrated audit of NBTY, Inc.'s 2006 consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audit, are presented below.   

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule     

          In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
NBTY, Inc. and its subsidiaries at September 30, 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule for the year ended September 30, 2006 listed in the accompanying index presents fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are
the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audit. We conducted our audit of
these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

Internal control over financial reporting     

          Also, in our opinion, management's assessment, included in the Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the
Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 based on criteria established in    Internal Control Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria.
Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in     Internal
Control Integrated Framework    issued by the COSO. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management's assessment and on the
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.   

          A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal   

  F-1  

control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.   

          Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

  /s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Stamford, Connecticut 
December 11, 2006   

  F-2  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

  To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
NBTY, Inc. 
Bohemia, New York   

          We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of NBTY, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of September 30, 2005, and the related consolidated statements
of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended September 30, 2005. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index
to the consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.   

          We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          In
our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of NBTY, Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 30,
2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended September 30, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.   

          We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2005, based on the criteria established in    Internal Control Integrated Framework    issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated December 22, 2005, not included herein, expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of
the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Jericho,
New York 
December 22, 2005 
(March 15, 2006 as to Note 20)   

  F-3  

NBTY, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Consolidated Balance Sheets   September 30, 2006 and 2005       (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share amounts)            

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

  F-4  

NBTY, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Consolidated Statements of Income   Years Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004       (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share amounts) 

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

  F-5  

NBTY, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income 
Years Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004       (dollars and shares in thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

  F-6  

NBTY, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   Years Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004       (dollars in thousands)            

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

  F-7  

NBTY, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Continued)   Years Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004       (dollars in thousands)     

See
Note 1 for disclosure of non-cash investing and financing activities.   

  The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

  F-8  

NBTY, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              Years Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004       (dollars and shares in thousands, except
per share amounts)   

   1.    Business Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

   Business Operations     

          The Company (as defined below) manufactures and sells vitamins, food supplements, and health and beauty aids throughout the world, but primarily in the United
States ("U.S."), the United Kingdom ("U.K."), Ireland, Holland and Canada. In each of these countries, there are agencies that regulate the processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising
of the Company's products.   

   Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation     

          The consolidated financial statements of NBTY, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the "Company" or "NBTY") include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries. The Company's fiscal year ends on September 30. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.   

Revenue Recognition     

          The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin 104. The Company recognizes product sales
revenue when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer, there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility
is reasonably assured. Since the terms for most sales within the wholesale and direct response segments are F.O.B. destination, generally title and risk of loss transfer to the customer at the time
the product is received by the customer. With respect to its own retail store operations, the Company recognizes revenue upon the sale of its products to retail customers. The Company's net sales
represent gross sales invoiced to customers, less certain related charges for discounts, returns, and other promotional program incentive allowances. Allowances provided for these items are presented
in the consolidated financial statements primarily as reductions to sales (see "Sales Returns and Other Allowances" discussed below for further information).   

   Estimates     

          The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the
results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The most significant estimates include:   

sales
returns and other allowances;
           allowance
for doubtful accounts;
           inventory
valuation and obsolescence;    
 
  F-9  

valuation
and recoverability of long-lived and indefinite-lived intangible assets including the values assigned to acquired intangible assets, goodwill, assets
held for sale and property, plant and equipment;
           income
taxes; and
           accruals
for the outcome of current litigation.    

On
a continual basis, management reviews its estimates utilizing currently available information, changes in facts and circumstances, historical experience and reasonable assumptions.
After such reviews, and if deemed appropriate, those estimates are adjusted accordingly. Actual results could differ from those estimates.   

   Fair Value of Financial Instruments     

          The carrying value of the Company's financial instruments approximates fair value due to their short maturities and variable interest rates, with the exception of
its 7 1 / 8 % Senior Subordinated Notes (see Note 9 Long-Term Debt). The face value and the fair value of the 7 1 / 8 % Senior Subordinated Notes
at September 30, 2006, based on then quoted market prices, was $190,000 and $182,400, respectively.   

   Significant Customers and Concentration of Credit Risk     

          Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents (the amounts of which may, at times,
exceed Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation limits on insurable amounts), investments and trade accounts receivable. The Company mitigates its risk by investing in or through major financial
institutions. At September 30, 2005, the Company's investments consisted of auction rate securities ("ARS"), which were classified as available-for-sale marketable
securities and reported at fair value (which approximated cost). The Company believed that no significant concentration of credit risk existed with respect to these securities.   

          The
Company performs on-going credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customer's current credit worthiness, as
determined by the review of their current credit information. Collections and payments from customers are continuously monitored. The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is
based upon historical experience as well as specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such bad debt expenses have historically been within expectations and allowances
established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that it has in the past. If the financial condition of customers were to deteriorate, resulting
in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.   

  F-10  

The
following individual customers accounted for the following percentages of the Wholesale/US Nutrition division's net sales for the fiscal years ended September 30:   

Customer
A is primarily a supplier to Customer B. Therefore, the loss of Customer B would likely result in the loss of most of the net sales to Customer A. While no one customer
represented, individually, more than 10 percent of the Company's consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the loss of either one of these
customers would have a material adverse effect on the Wholesale/US Nutrition division if the Company was unable to replace such customer(s).   

The
following individual customers accounted for 10% or more of the Wholesale/US Nutrition division's total gross accounts receivable at fiscal years ended:   

Sales Returns and Other Allowances     

          The Company simultaneously records estimates for various items, which reduce product sales. These items include estimates for product returns and for promotional
program incentive activities for various types of incentives offered to customers as well as other sales allowances.   

           Allowance for sales returns:       The Company analyzes sales returns in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
("SFAS") No. 48 "Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists" ("SFAS 48"). The Company is able to make reasonable and reliable estimates of product returns based on the Company's past
27 year history in the business. The Company also monitors the buying patterns of the end-users of its products based on sales data received by its over 1,200 retail outlets in
North America and Europe. Estimates for sales returns are based on a variety of factors including actual return experience of any specific product or similar product. The Company also reviews its
estimates for product returns based on expected return data communicated to it by customers. The Company also monitors the levels of inventory at its largest customers to avoid excessive customer
stocking of merchandise. Allowances for returns of new products are estimated by reviewing data of any prior relevant new product introduction return information. Accordingly, the Company believes
that its historical returns analysis is an accurate basis for its allowance for sales returns. While the Company does not have the ability to track returns by fiscal period, the Company believes it is
able to make reasonable estimates of expected sales returns, required by SFAS 48, based upon historical data and the available monitoring processes. The Company believes it has sufficient information
and knowledge of its customers and of industry trends and conditions to adjust the allowance for returns when necessary. Actual results could differ from those estimates.   

  F-11  

Promotional program incentive allowance:       The Company uses objective procedures for estimating its allowance for promotional
program incentives. The allowance for sales incentives offered to customers is based on contractual terms or other arrangements agreed to in advance with certain customers. Customers earn such
incentives as specified sales volumes are achieved.   

          As
with any set of assumptions and estimates, there is a range of reasonably likely amounts that may be calculated for each allowance above. However, the Company believes that there
would be no significant difference in the amounts reported using other reasonable assumptions than what was used to arrive at each allowance. The Company regularly reviews the factors that influence
its estimates and, if necessary, makes adjustments when it believes that actual product returns, credits and other allowances may differ from established reserves. Actual experience associated with
any of these items may be significantly different than the Company's estimates.   

          Accounts
receivable are presented net of the following reserves at September 30:   

Inventories     

          Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is primarily determined on the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The cost
elements of inventories include materials, labor and overhead. In fiscal 2006 and 2004, no one supplier provided more than 10% of the Company's raw material purchases. During fiscal 2005, one supplier
individually represented greater than 10% of the Company's raw material purchases. Due to numerous alternative suppliers available, the Company does not believe that the loss of this or any other
single supplier would have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition or results of operations. No one supplier provided more than 10% of the Company's overall
consolidated total purchases in any of the fiscal years presented.   

          The
Company establishes reserves on inventories when the cost of the inventory is not expected to be recovered. The Company regularly reviews inventories, including when product is close
to expiration and is not expected to be sold, when product has reached its expiration date, or when product is not expected to be saleable based on the Company's quality assurance and quality control
standards. The reserve for these products is equal to all or a portion of the cost of the related inventories based on the specific facts and circumstances. In evaluating whether inventories are
stated at the lower of cost or market, management considers such factors as the amount of inventory on hand, estimated time required to sell such inventory, remaining shelf life and current and
expected market conditions, including levels of competition. The Company records changes in inventory reserves as part of cost of sales. Reserves for excess and slow moving inventories were $11,019
and $13,956 at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  F-12  

Advertising, Promotion and Catalog     

          The Company expenses the production costs of advertising the first time the advertising takes place, except for direct-response advertising, which is capitalized
and amortized over its expected period of future benefit, which typically approximates two months. The Company had capitalized advertising for direct-response at September 30, as follows:   

The
Company had direct-response advertising expenses for the fiscal years ended September 30 as follows:   

Total
advertising expenses for the fiscal years ended September 30 were comprised of the following:   

Property, Plant and Equipment     

          Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related
assets. The costs of normal maintenance and repairs are charged to expense in the year incurred. Expenditures which significantly improve or extend the life of an asset are capitalized and depreciated
over the asset's remaining useful life. Amortization of leasehold improvements is computed using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the related
assets or lease term. Upon sale or disposition, the related cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is reflected in earnings.   

   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets     

          Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets of companies acquired. Goodwill and other intangible assets
acquired in a business combination and determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of SFAS
No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"). The SFAS 142 goodwill impairment model is a two-step process. The first step compares the fair value of a
reporting unit that has goodwill assigned to its carrying value. The Company estimates the fair value of a reporting unit by using a discounted cash flow model. If the fair value of the reporting unit
is determined to be less than its carrying value, a second step is performed   

  F-13  

to
compute the amount of goodwill impairment, if any. Step two allocates the fair value of the reporting unit to the reporting unit's net assets other than goodwill. The excess of the fair value of
the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its net assets other than goodwill is considered the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill. The implied fair value of the reporting unit's
goodwill is then compared to the carrying value of its goodwill. Any shortfall represents the amount of goodwill impairment. SFAS 142 requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at the
reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not
reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets
and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The Company tests goodwill annually as of
September 30, the last day of its fourth fiscal quarter, of each year unless an event occurs that would cause the Company to believe the value is impaired at an interim date.   

Using
the SFAS 142 approach described in the previous paragraph, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge during the third quarter of fiscal 2005 of $7,686 for its North
American Retail reporting unit, which fully impaired this segment's goodwill. No impairment of goodwill was noted for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2004. (See Note 7 for
discussion of goodwill impairment charges recorded during the third quarter of fiscal 2005 for the North American Retail reporting unit and interim triggering events which required the Company to test
its goodwill in the third quarter of fiscal 2005).   

          Generally,
in evaluating impairment, the Company estimates the sum of the expected future cash flows derived from such goodwill. Such evaluations for impairment are significantly
impacted by estimates of future revenues, costs and expenses and other factors. A significant change in cash flows in the future could result in an additional impairment of goodwill in the Company's
other three segments.   

          Other
definite lived intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding 20 years. (See Note 7 for discussion of trademark impairments
recorded during fiscal 2006)   

   Impairment of Long-Lived Assets     

          The Company follows the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS 144").
SFAS 144 requires evaluation of the need for an impairment charge relating to long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an
asset may not be recoverable. The estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset would be compared to the asset's carrying amount to determine if a write down to a new depreciable
basis is required. If required, an impairment charge is recorded based on an estimate of future discounted cash flows. During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company recognized impairment charges of
$3,141, $3,518 and $2,603, respectively, on assets to be held and used. The impairment charges related primarily to leasehold improvements and furniture and fixtures for U.S. retail operations and
were included in the Consolidated Statements of Income under the caption "Selling, general and administrative" expenses in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 (see Note 7).   

  F-14  

Stock-Based Compensation     

          Effective October 1, 2005 the Company adopted SFAS 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123(R)"), using the "modified prospective" method.
SFAS l23(R) revises SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"), and supersedes Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees" ("APB 25"). SFAS 123(R) sets accounting requirements for "share-based" compensation to employees, requires companies to recognize in the income statement the
grant-date fair value of stock options and other equity-based compensation issued and disallows the use of the intrinsic value method of accounting for stock-based compensation. Prior to
October 1, 2005 the Company accounted for its stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed in APB 25 and related interpretations, as permitted by SFAS 123, and
accordingly did not recognize compensation expense for stock options with an exercise price equal to or greater than the market value of the underlying stock at the date of grant. The Company provided
additional disclosures with respect to the proforma amounts of net income and EPS had the Company recorded compensation expense in accordance with SFAS 123.   

          Stock
options granted under the Company's plans generally became exercisable on grant date and had a maximum term of ten years. There were no stock option grants during the fiscal years
ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, and all previously issued options were fully vested in fiscal year 2001. Accordingly, the Company did not recognize compensation expense for outstanding
stock options during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Additionally, the proforma and actual net income and related earnings per share for fiscal years ended
September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were the same. Since all previously granted stock options were fully vested as of the date of adoption of SFAS 123(R), and the Company has not issued
any other share-based payments in fiscal 2006, the adoption of SFAS 123(R) did not have any impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

          On
November 10, 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. FAS 123(R)-3, "Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based
Payment Awards" ("FSP 123(R)-3"), which gives companies the option to adopt the alternative transition method provided in this FSP for calculating the tax effects of stock-based
compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R). This alternative transition method provides simplified methods to calculate the beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital pool ("APIC
pool") related to the tax effects of employee stock-based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact of the tax effects of employee stock-based compensation awards that are outstanding upon
adoption of SFAS 123(R) on the APIC pool and statement of cash flows. The guidance in this FSP is effective on November 11, 2005, however, an entity may take up to one year from the
later of its initial adoption of SFAS 123(R) or the effective date of this FSP to evaluate its available transition alternatives and make its one-time election. In the third fiscal
quarter ended June 30, 2006, the Company elected to adopt the alternative transition method provided in FSP 123(R)-3 to calculate the beginning balance of the APIC pool
available to absorb any future write-offs of deferred tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation. The Company's policy for calculating the potential windfall tax benefit or
shortfall for the purpose of calculating assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method of calculating diluted EPS excludes the impact of proforma deferred tax assets related to fully vested awards
on the date of adoption.   

  F-15  

In
accordance with FSP 123(R)-3, the Company classifies the tax benefits related to employee stock awards that are fully vested prior to the adoption of
SFAS 123(R) as a cash inflow from financing activities and a cash outflow from operating activities within the statement of cash flows. As such, the income tax benefit of $15 recognized from
the exercise of stock options during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 is classified as a financing cash inflow and an operating cash outflow in the Company's Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows. The income tax benefit of $220 recognized from the exercise of stock options during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 is classified as an operating cash outflow in the
Company's Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.   

   Foreign Currency     

          The financial statements of international subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars using the exchange rate at each balance sheet date for assets and
liabilities and an average exchange rate for each period for revenues, expenses, gains and losses. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are charged or credited to income as incurred. Where
the local currency is the functional currency (which is determined based on management's judgement and involves consideration of all relevant economic facts and circumstances affecting the subsidiary)
translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of stockholders' equity. During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company recognized foreign currency transaction (losses) gains of ($1,851),
$4,286 and $1,253, respectively, which are included in "Miscellaneous, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   

   Derivatives     

          In accordance with SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133"), as amended by SFAS
No. 138, "Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities, an amendment of SFAS 133" ("SFAS 138") and SFAS No. 149, "Amendment on
Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS 149"), the Company recognizes derivatives as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value. For
derivatives that have been formally designated as a cash flow hedge (interest rate swap agreements), the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recorded in "accumulated
other comprehensive income". Amounts in "accumulated other comprehensive income" are reclassified into earnings in the "interest expense" caption when interest expense on the underlying borrowings are
recognized. The Company has not entered into derivatives for speculative purposes. (See Note 9 for derivatives entered into during fiscal year 2005).   

   Comprehensive Income     

          In accordance with SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income", the Company is required to display comprehensive income and its components as part of
its complete set of financial statements. Comprehensive income represents the change in stockholders' equity resulting from transactions other than stockholder investments and distributions. Included
in accumulated other comprehensive income are changes in equity that are excluded from the Company's net income, specifically, unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency translation adjustments,
unrealized holding gains (losses) on investments and changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement treated as a cash flow hedging instrument.   

  F-16  

Income Taxes     

          The Company recognizes deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements
or tax returns. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for
the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The Company estimates the degree to which tax assets and credit carryforwards will result in a benefit based on expected profitability by tax
jurisdiction. A valuation allowance for such tax assets and loss carryforwards is provided when it is determined that such assets will more likely than not go unused. If it becomes more likely than
not that a tax asset will be used, the related valuation allowance on such assets would be reversed. Management makes judgments as to the interpretation of the tax
laws that might be challenged upon an audit and cause changes to previous estimates of tax liability. In addition, the Company operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in
these jurisdictions. In management's opinion, adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all years. If actual taxable income by tax jurisdiction varies from estimates, additional
allowances or reversals of reserves may be necessary.   

   Cash and Cash Equivalents     

          The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.   

   Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information     

F-17  

Investments     

          The Company's investments at September 30, 2005 consisted of auction rate securities ("ARS"), which were classified as
available-for-sale marketable securities and reported at fair value (which approximated cost) in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of September 30, 2005,
there were no unrealized holding gains or losses related to these investments.   

On
October 24, 2005, the Company liquidated and utilized all of its investment in ARS of $39,900 to pay a portion of the remaining redemption price on its 8 5 / 8 %
Notes outstanding. Purchases and sales of auction rate securities are presented as investing activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. (See Note 9 for further discussion of the
Company's redemption of its 8 5 / 8 % Notes).   

   Shipping and Handling Costs     

          The Company incurs shipping and handling costs in all divisions of its operations. These costs, included in "Selling, general and administrative expenses" in the
Consolidated Statements of Income, are $46,933, $47,696 and $45,199 for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Of these amounts, $11,199, $10,790 and $9,267
have been billed to customers and are included in net sales for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.   

   New Accounting Developments     

Accounting pronouncements newly issued:      

In September 2006, the Securities Exchange Commission ("SEC") staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 108, "Considering the Effects of
Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements" ("SAB 108"). In SAB 108, the SEC staff established an approach that requires quantification
of financial statement misstatements based on the effects of the misstatements on each of the company's financial statements and the related financial statement disclosures. SAB 108 permits
existing public companies to initially apply its provisions either by (i) restating prior financial statements or (ii) recording the cumulative effect as adjustments to the carrying
values of assets and liabilities with an offsetting adjustment recorded to the opening balance of retained earnings. The Company will adopt this statement on October 1, 2006 and does not
anticipate that the adoption will have a significant impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

          In
September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements"
("SFAS 157"). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and enhances disclosures about fair value
measurements. This statement applies when other accounting pronouncements require fair value measurements; it does not require new fair value measurements. This Statement is effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those years. The Company will adopt SFAS 157 on October 1, 2008. The Company is
currently evaluating the impact of adopting this standard in its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.   

  F-18  

The
FASB ratified the consensuses reached in Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF" or, the "Task Force") Issue No. 06-3, "How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted
to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation)" ("EITF 06-3"). The Task Force reached a consensus that the scope of the
Issue includes any tax assessed by a governmental authority that is both imposed on and current with a specific revenue-producing transaction between a seller and a customer, and may include, but is
not limited to, sales, use, value added, and some excise taxes. The scope of this Issue excludes tax schemes that are based on gross receipts and taxes that are imposed during the inventory
procurement process. The presentation of taxes within the scope of this Issue on either a gross or a net basis is an accounting policy decision that should be disclosed under Accounting Principles
Board ("APB") Opinion No. 22, "Disclosure of Accounting Policies." Furthermore, for taxes reported on a gross basis, a company should disclose the aggregate amount of those taxes in interim and
annual financial statements for each period for which an income statement is presented if that amount is significant. The disclosures required under this consensus should be applied retrospectively to
interim and annual financial statements for all periods presented, if those amounts are significant. The consensus in EITF 06-3 should be applied to interim and annual reporting
periods beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company will adopt EITF 06-3 on January 1, 2007, the second fiscal quarter of the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2007. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption will have a significant impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

          In
June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109."
("FIN 48"). This Interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in tax positions and requires that the Company recognize in its financial statements, the impact of a tax position, if
that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position and provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties,
accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. This Interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company will adopt the provisions of
FIN 48 on October 1, 2007, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. The Company is currently evaluating
the impact of adopting FIN 48 in its consolidated financial statements.   

          On
November 10, 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. FAS 123(R)-3, "Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based
Payment Awards"
("FSP 123(R)-3"). See "Stock-Based Compensation" discussion within this Note for further detail regarding FSP 123(R)-3.   

          In
May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections" ("SFAS 154"), which replaces APB Opinion No. 20, "Accounting Changes,"
and FASB Statement No. 3, "Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements." APB Opinion No. 20 had required that changes in accounting principles be recognized by including
the cumulative effect of the change in the period in which the new accounting principle was adopted. SFAS 154 requires retrospective application of the change to prior periods' financial
statements, unless it is impracticable to determine the period-specific effects of the change. The FASB identified the reason for the issuance of SFAS 154 to be part of a broader attempt to
eliminate differences with the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"). The Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The   

  F-19  

Company
is required to adopt this statement at the beginning of its fiscal 2007 reporting period. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of SFAS 154 will have a significant impact on
the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

Accounting pronouncements adopted:      

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments-an amendment of FASB Statements
No. 133 and 140" ("SFAS 155"). SFAS 155 permits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require
bifurcation, clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133, establishes a requirement to evaluate
interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation,
clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives, and amends SFAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special-purpose entity
from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial instrument. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments
acquired or issued after the beginning of an entity's first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. The Company adopted SFAS 155 beginning October 1, 2006. The adoption
did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

          Effective
October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123(R)"). See Note 16 for further detail regarding the adoption
of this standard.   

          In
October 2005, the FASB issued Staff Position FAS 13-1, "Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred during a Construction Period" ("FSP 13-1"),
which requires rental costs associated with ground or building operating leases that are incurred during a construction period to be recognized as rental expense. The Company adopted
FSP 13-1 at the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal year 2006. The adoption did not have a significant effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of
operations since the Company always expensed such costs.   

          In
March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations" ("FIN 47"). FIN 47 provides guidance
relating to the identification of and financial reporting for legal obligations to perform an asset retirement activity. The Interpretation requires recognition of a liability for the fair value of a
conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred if the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 also defines when an entity would have sufficient information to
reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. The Company adopted FIN 47 beginning the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. The adoption did not have a material impact on
the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

          In
November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs" an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin ("ARB") No. 43, to clarify the accounting for abnormal
amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). This Statement requires that those items be recognized as current-period charges regardless of whether they
meet the criterion of "so abnormal." In addition, this Statement requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the   

  F-20  

costs
of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The Company adopted SFAS 151 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. The adoption did not
have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

          In
October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") became effective in the U.S. Two provisions of the Act have impacted the Company's effective tax rate. The Act
contains a new provision that permits a Qualified Production Activities Deduction ("QPA") related to the Company's qualified manufacturing activity. The QPA deduction is available to the Company
beginning with the current tax year. However, the interaction of the law's provisions, as well as the particulars of the Company's tax position, resulted in the QPA deduction not having a significant
impact for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006.   

          The
Act also contains a provision related to Foreign Earnings Repatriation ("FER"). The FER provision of the Act provides generally for a one-time 85 percent dividends
received deduction for qualifying repatriations of foreign earnings to the U.S. The Company has completed its evaluation of the application of the FER provision, which resulted in a significantly
lower tax cost by repatriating foreign earnings in accordance with the FER provision. As such, the Company has developed a Domestic Reinvestment Plan to reinvest the repatriated foreign earnings in
the U.S. in qualifying activities, pursuant to the terms of the FER provision and subsequent guidance issued by the
IRS. During fiscal 2006, the Company repatriated $116,603 of foreign earnings pursuant to a domestic reinvestment plan authorized by the Company's Board of Directors. A portion of the repatriation
includes foreign earnings related to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 and to earlier fiscal years. The Company estimated and recorded a net benefit of $884 on unremitted earnings from
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 and earlier fiscal years. This benefit was recorded in the provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005.   

The
majority of the repatriation comes from foreign earnings for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006. As the Company has principally repatriated foreign earnings in prior
years, it is essentially repatriating current year foreign earnings at a more beneficial rate under the American Jobs Creations Act of 2004. The Company recorded a benefit of $11,289 through its tax
provision for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 relating to the FER provision.   

   2.    Acquisitions     

          The Company accounts for acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations." Under the purchase
method of accounting, the total purchase price has been allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the
purchase price over those fair values was recorded as goodwill (see Note 6). The fair value assigned to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was based upon
estimates and assumptions developed by management and other information compiled by management, including a valuation. The purchase price allocation for the SISU acquisition has not yet been finalized
as of September 30, 2006 due to outstanding working capital issues with the seller.   

Certain
acquisitions also gave rise to the consolidation and elimination of certain personnel at the acquired entities. The Company has provided for liabilities resulting from this in
accordance with EITF   

  F-21  

No. 95-3,
"Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination." At the closing of the respective acquisitions, the Company anticipated workforce
reductions and, as such, included an estimated accrual for this comprised of severance and employee benefits in the purchase price allocation for each respective acquisition. The activity in the
workforce reduction accrual in connection with the respective acquisitions is provided in the discussions below.   

Fiscal 2006 Acquisitions     

          In fiscal 2006, the Company did not acquire any businesses.   

   Fiscal 2005 Acquisitions     

Solgar (Final)      

On August 1, 2005, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of Solgar Vitamin and Herb, a division of Wyeth Consumer Healthcare ("Wyeth"). The
purchase price for this business was approximately $115,000 in cash. The Company finalized the net asset value calculation in fiscal 2006 and received $1,964 from the seller as a result of this
calculation. The goodwill associated with this acquisition will be deductible for tax purposes. The cash used for this acquisition was financed by an amendment and restatement of the Company's
existing Credit and Guarantee Agreement ("CGA"), which included a new Term Loan A for $120,000 which was scheduled to mature August 2010 but was fully paid in fiscal 2006. The Company
also incurred approximately $3,528 of direct transaction costs for a total purchase price of approximately $116,564. Additionally, related financing costs of approximately $1,147 were paid to secure
the financing for this acquisition and recorded as deferred financing costs (see Note 9).   

          Solgar,
a prominent supplement company established in 1947, manufactures and distributes premium-branded nutritional supplements including multivitamins, minerals, botanicals and
specialty formulas designed to meet the specific needs of men, women, children and seniors. Solgar's headquarters and major manufacturing facility are located in Bergen County, New Jersey. Solgar's
products are sold at nearly 10,000 health food stores, natural product stores, natural pharmacies and specialty stores across the United States and internationally. The Solgar acquisition strengthened
NBTY's presence in the health food store market, as the Solgar brand focused on serving the needs of the independent health food store across the United States and internationally. This acquisition
contributed $100,228 in net sales and pre-tax operating income of $11,074 to NBTY's wholesale segment for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. This acquisition contributed
$17,464 in net sales and a pre-tax operating loss of $1,879, since its acquisition date, to NBTY's wholesale segment for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005.   

  F-22  

At the closing of the Solgar acquisition, the Company anticipated workforce reductions and, as such, included an estimated accrual for such reductions of
approximately $1,008, comprised of severance and employee benefits, in the preliminary purchase price allocation (included herein). The rollforward of the workforce reduction accrual is as follows:   

SISU (Preliminary; see discussion below)      

On June 8, 2005, the Company acquired SISU, Inc. ("SISU"), a Canadian-based manufacturer and distributor of premium quality vitamins and supplements
sold to independent health food stores. The purchase price for this business was approximately $8,224 in cash. None of the goodwill associated with this acquisition will be deductible for tax
purposes. This acquisition contributed $12,547 and $3,355 in
net sales and a marginal pre-tax operating loss to NBTY's wholesale segment for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

Le Naturiste (Final)      

On February 25, 2005, the Company acquired Le Naturiste Jean-Marc Brunet ("Le Naturiste"), a chain of retail stores located throughout Quebec.
Le Naturiste is an Eastern Canadian-based company in the business of developing, packaging, marketing and retailing an in-house range of privately-labeled health and natural products. At
the time of the acquisition, the Le Naturiste chain operated 99 company-owned stores and 4 franchised stores. The purchase price for this business was approximately $5,048 in cash. None of the
goodwill associated with this acquisition will be deductible for tax purposes. This acquisition contributed $17,657 and $9,089 in net sales and pre-tax operating losses of $2,801 and
$1,556 to NBTY's North American retail segment for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of September 30, 2006 the Le Naturiste chain operated 96
company-owned stores and 2 franchised stores.   

  F-23  

The
following provides an allocation of the purchase price in relation to the Le Naturiste, SISU and Solgar acquisitions. The SISU purchase price allocation is preliminary as discussed
below:   

The
fair value of property, plant and equipment acquired (as of the date of acquisition) is as follows:   

F-24  

The
fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired (as of the date of acquisition) is as follows:   

The
Company has not yet finalized the working capital adjustment (as defined in the purchase agreement) relating to the SISU acquisition. The purchase agreement stipulates an adjustment
to the purchase price between buyer and seller for the excess or shortfall of the final working capital threshold as stated in such agreement. The Company and SISU's seller are in a dispute with
respect to the calculation of the final working capital. Also, the preliminary allocation of the SISU purchase price noted above is subject to contingency payments based upon financial loss claims as
specified in the purchase agreement. The purchase agreement stipulates the indemnification from the seller of any
financial losses of SISU for the period from June 1, 2005 to May 31, 2006 up to the maximum amount of $500. The completion of this process may result in an adjustment to the purchase
price. Upon completion of these events, final allocations to the acquired assets and liabilities could result in future adjustments to goodwill and actual results may differ from those presented
herein. Although management believes that the current allocation of the estimated purchase price is reasonable, the final allocation may differ significantly from the amounts reflected in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.   

          Proforma
financial information related to Solgar, SISU and Le Naturiste are not provided as their impact was not material individually or in the aggregate to the Company's consolidated
financial statements.   

   Fiscal 2004 Acquisitions     

          In fiscal 2004, the Company did not acquire any businesses.   

   3.    Investments     

          At September 30, 2005, investments consisted of auction rate securities ("ARS") which are long-term variable rate bonds tied to
short-term interest rates that are reset through a "dutch auction" process which occurs every 7 to 35 days. These investments were recorded at fair value; any unrealized
gains/losses were included in other comprehensive income, unless a loss was determined to be other than temporary. As of September 30, 2005, there were no unrealized holding gains or losses.
The Company classified such securities as current assets in the accompanying balance sheet because the Company had the ability and intent to sell these securities as necessary to meet its then current
liquidity requirements.   

  F-25  

On
October 24, 2005, the Company liquidated and utilized all of its investment in ARS of $39,900 to pay a portion of the remaining redemption price on its 8 5 / 8 %
Notes outstanding. See Note 9 for further discussion of the Company's redemption of its 8 5 / 8 % Notes.   

          Interest
income included in "Miscellaneous, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Income was $3,229, $1,935 and $1,298 during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively.   

   4.    Inventories     

          The components of inventories are as follows at September 30:   

5.    Property, Plant and Equipment, net     

          Property, plant and equipment is as follows at September 30:   

Depreciation
and amortization of property, plant and equipment for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was approximately $43,739, $47,297 and $50,180,
respectively.   

  F-26  

6.    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net     

Goodwill     

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:   

The
goodwill associated with the SISU acquisition is subject to revision as described in Note 2. Although management believes that the current allocation of the estimated purchase
price is reasonable, the final allocation may differ from the amounts reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.   

Fiscal 2006:     

The decrease in the Wholesale/US Nutrition segment's goodwill for fiscal 2006 primarily related to the closure of the Solgar operations in Australia, Canada and
Mexico, which occurred during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, and included the write-off of goodwill ($645) associated with these businesses. Goodwill was also impacted by
the receipt of cash from Wyeth ($1,964) in connection with the determination by the Company and Wyeth of the final net asset calculation with respect to the Solgar acquisition offset by other non cash
adjustments.   

Fiscal 2005:     

The increase in the Wholesale/US Nutrition segment's goodwill for fiscal 2005 primarily related to the acquisition of Solgar ($16,481) and SISU ($1,541) (see
Note 2) and the effect of the Company's settlement of the working capital dispute in connection with the Rexall acquisition ($11,078) partially offset by a tax adjustment relating to the
purchase price allocation of the Rexall acquisition ($1,221) and a reduction in the goodwill associated with the December 2004 sale of certain Food Supplement Corporation ("FSC") business
assets ($353) (see Note 7).   

  F-27  

The decrease in the North American Retail segment's goodwill during fiscal 2005 is directly due to the Company recording an impairment charge of $7,686 (see
Note 7).   

          The
decrease in the European Retail segment's goodwill during fiscal 2005 is related to the Company settling its dispute with the former owners of GNC (UK) and FSC during fiscal 2005 by
receiving cash ($4,558) and settling the dispute over the net assets acquired ($5,292) reflected as an adjustment to the purchase price.   

Other Intangible Assets     

The carrying amounts of acquired other intangible assets are as follows at September 30:   

The
Company decided during the second quarter of fiscal 2006 to discontinue its Carb Solutions low-carb product line due to continued difficult market conditions. The Carb
Solutions product line was acquired as part of the acquisition of Rexall Sundown in 2003. As a result, the brands
associated with this trademark had virtually no future undiscounted cash flow to support the carrying value. The Company wrote off the net carrying value of the Carb Solutions trademarked brands of
$10,450 and included this impairment charge in "Trademark/goodwill impairment" in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. This
asset is reported in the Company's Wholesale segment. See also Note 7, Impairments, Assets Held for Sale and Gain on Sale of Business Assets.   

          Aggregate
amortization expense of other definite lived intangible assets included in the Consolidated Statements of Income under the caption "Selling, general and administrative"
expenses in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 was approximately $12,309, $10,986 and $11,500, respectively.   

  F-28  

Estimated amortization expense     

Assuming no changes in the Company's other intangible assets, estimated amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years ending
September 30 is as follows:   

The
above estimated amortization expense is subject to change once the purchase price allocation in connection with the Company's acquisition of Zila is finalized (see Note 22).   

   7.    Impairments, Assets Held for Sale and Gain on Sale of Business Assets     

Impairment Indicators:   

During
fiscal 2005, the Company monitored trends in its North American Retail segment, which included the review of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
("EBITDA") due to negative changes in the specialty retail market's business climate. This directly influenced the Company's decision to participate in a significant level of promotional activity at
its retail locations in the prior fiscal year. These sales incentives negatively impacted gross margins. The North American Retail segment had positive annual EBITDA for the five years preceding the
2005 fiscal year. The fiscal first quarter ended December 31, 2004 was the first time in those five years that this reporting unit generated negative EBITDA. The Company continued to monitor
this trend during the quarter ended March 31, 2005, in which the reporting unit generated a negative EBITDA for a second consecutive quarter. In addition to the negative EBITDA generated by the
North American Retail segment during the first two quarters of FY 2005, the Company was monitoring its same-store sales trend. In May 2005, same-store sales turned
positive; however, 8 out of the previous 12 months reflected negative same store sales trends. As a result of the two consecutive quarters of negative EBITDA and the continued adverse business
climate of the specialty retail market during the April and May 2005 periods, the Company concluded that there were indicators of impairment of its North American Retail segment's goodwill and
certain property, plant and equipment in the 2005 fiscal year. These factors were determined to be interim triggering events that required an impairment review during fiscal 2005 under the provisions
of SFAS 144 and SFAS 142 as described below.   

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets:   

Under
SFAS 144 management considers a history of cash flow losses on a store by store basis to be its primary indicator of potential impairment. Carrying values are reviewed for
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets' carrying values may not be recoverable from the estimated future cash flows. The estimated future undiscounted cash flows
associated with the asset would be compared to the asset's carrying amount to determine if a write down to a new depreciable basis is required. If required, an impairment charge is recorded based on
an estimate of future discounted cash flows.   

  F-29  

As
part of its ongoing operations, the Company continually evaluates certain retail stores that reach a certain level of maturity and have also been sustaining operating losses for an
impairment review under the provisions of SFAS 144. The estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the leasehold improvements and furniture and fixtures in certain North American
retail stores that were incurring losses were compared to the respective carrying amounts of such assets. Based on an impairment analysis performed in accordance with SFAS 144, it was
determined that a write down to a new basis was required since the carrying amount of the long-lived asset group for each store incurring losses exceeded its fair value, calculated based
on the present value of estimated future cash flows. Accordingly, the Company recognized impairment charges of $3,141, $3,518 and $2,603 for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively, on assets to be held and used. The impairment charges related primarily to leasehold improvements and furniture and fixtures for North American Retail operations and were included
in the Consolidated Statements of Income under the caption "Selling, general and administrative" expenses.   

Due
to continued difficult market conditions experienced in its low carb product line, the Company decided to discontinue its Carb Solutions trademarked brands during the fiscal year
ended September 30, 2006 (which was acquired as part of the acquisition of Rexall Sundown in 2003) since the brand related to this trademark had virtually no future undiscounted cash flow to
support its carrying value. Accordingly, the Company wrote off the net carrying value of the Carb Solutions trademarked brands of $10,450 during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 (see
Note 6).   

Goodwill impairment charge:   

The
Company recognized a $7,686 goodwill impairment charge for the North American Retail reporting unit for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 which fully impaired this
segment's goodwill.
This charge was the result of an impairment test performed in accordance with SFAS No. 142, whereby it was determined that the carrying value of the goodwill exceeded its fair value.   

Other Impairments:   

During
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, the company closed certain Solgar international operations in Australia, Canada and Mexico, which included the
write-off of goodwill and other assets associated with these businesses ($920).   

Assets Held for Sale:   

In
December 2004, the Company entered into a contract with a real estate broker to facilitate the sale of the corporate building acquired in the 2003 Rexall acquisition at less
than its carrying value of $10,508. In accordance with SFAS 144, the Company recorded an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the asset by $1,908. Such amount was charged to
operations and is included in the Consolidated Statements of Income under the caption "Selling, general and administrative" expenses for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005. In
May 2005, the Company sold this building at no further gain or loss, and received cash proceeds of $8,600.   

          In
May 2005, the Company sold a corporate building for $1,350 which approximated the building's carrying value. As such, no gain or loss was recorded as a result of this sale.   

  F-30  

Gain on Sale of Business Assets:   

In
December 2004, the Company sold certain business assets of Food Supplement Corporation ("FSC"), a Manchester, U.K.-based wholesale operation which included products sold to
health food stores and pharmacies. In connection with the sale, proceeds of $5,766 were received and a $1,999 gain was realized and included in the Consolidated Statements of Income under the caption
"Selling, general and administrative" expenses for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005.   

   8.    Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities     

          The components of accrued expenses and other current liabilities are as follows at September 30:   

F-31  

9.    Long-Term Debt     

          Long-term debt consisted of the following at September 30:   

(a)    At
September 30, 2005, the 8 5 / 8 % Notes were uncollateralized and subordinated in right of payment for all existing and future indebtedness of the Company. On
August 25, 2005, NBTY initiated a cash tender offer (the "Offer") for any and all of the 8 5 / 8 % Notes. On September 23, 2005, NBTY announced the expiration of the Offer
with a total of $74,458 aggregate principal amount of 8 5 / 8 % Notes tendered, representing approximately 49.6% of the outstanding 8 5 / 8 % Notes. On September 23, 2005,
NBTY issued a Call for Redemption of these 8 5 / 8 % Notes and accepted and paid for the $74,458 aggregate principal amount of 8 5 / 8 % Notes tendered. The redemption price was
equal to $1,000 per $1,000 principal amount of the 8 5 / 8 % Notes validly tendered, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. On October 24, 2005, the Company
redeemed the remaining $75,542 aggregate principal amount of the 8 5 / 8 % Notes outstanding. On such date, the Company paid $706 representing the remaining accrued interest due to the
8 5 / 8 % Note holders and recorded an additional charge of $802 to interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006
representing the unamortized portion of debt    
  F-32  

issuance
costs of $629 and the unamortized bond discount of $173 associated with the original issuance.   

(b)    In
September 2005, the Company issued 10-year 7 1 / 8 % Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 in the aggregate principal amount of $200,000 (the
"7 1 / 8 % Notes"). The 7 1 / 8 % Notes are guaranteed by all of the Company's domestic subsidiaries and are full, unconditional and joint and several and uncollaterized and
subordinated in right of payment for all existing and future indebtedness of the Company. See Note 20 for the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Guarantors of the 7 1 / 8 %
Notes. The 7 1 / 8 % Notes are subject to redemption, at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time on or after October 1, 2010, and prior to maturity at certain
fixed redemption prices plus accrued interest. In addition, on or prior to October 1, 2008, the Company may redeem in the aggregate up to 35% of the 7 1 / 8 % Notes with the net cash
proceeds received by the Company from certain types of equity offerings (as defined), at a redemption value equal to 107.125% of the principal amount plus accrued interest, provided that at least 65%
of the aggregate principal amount of notes remains outstanding immediately after any such redemption. The notes do not have any sinking fund requirements. Interest is paid semi-annually on
April 1 st  and October 1 st .    

In
March 2006 the Company purchased, on the open market, $10,000 face value of the 7 1 / 8 % Notes for $9,575. The Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of $425 and
wrote-off $264 of the related unamortized deferred financing fees during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 as a result of this transaction.   

(c)    The
Company entered into a variable rate mortgage with JP Morgan Chase Bank on August 31, 2005 for a loan in the amount of $12,950, payable in monthly principal installments of
$72 plus interest at LIBOR plus 1.5%. The mortgage was scheduled to mature on August 31, 2015, with the final payment of the then unpaid principal balance of approximately $4,317. On
August 31, 2005, the Company also entered into an interest rate swap agreement ("SWAP") to receive variable rate interest (LIBOR), and pay fixed rate interest (4.71%) which effectively
converted the $12,950 mortgage to fixed rate debt. The Company entered into this SWAP as a cash flow hedge in order to fix its interest payments on the mortgage. The SWAP, which was scheduled to
expire in August 2015, was amortizing so that the notional amount of the SWAP decreased in tandem, dollar for dollar, with the scheduled principal payments on the mortgage. During the fiscal
third quarter 2006 the Company repaid this mortgage in full and extinguished its SWAP contract. See below for further discussion of the SWAP settlement.
      (d)    On
August 1, 2005, in connection with the Company's acquisition of Solgar, the Company amended and restated its existing credit agreement by adding a new Term Loan A of
$120,000 and increasing its existing Revolving Credit Facility from $100,000 to $125,000. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, the Company accelerated payments on such debt. During
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, the Company paid the balance of Term Loan A and Term Loan C in full.    

Interest
rates charged on borrowings can vary depending on the interest rate option utilized. Options for the rate can either be the Alternate Base Rate or LIBOR plus applicable margin. At
September 30, 2005, the borrowing rates for Term Loan A, Term Loan C and the Revolving Credit   

F-33  

Facility
were approximately 5.25%, 5.875% and 7.75%, respectively. The Company is required to pay a commitment fee, which varies between .25% and .50% per annum, depending on the Company's ratio of
consolidated indebtedness to consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, on any unused portion of the revolving credit facility. The CGA defines Adjusted EBITDA as net income, excluding the aggregate amount of all
non-cash losses reducing net income (excluding any non-cash losses that result in an accrual of a reserve for cash charges in any future period and the reversal thereof), plus
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The Revolving Credit Facility matures July 24, 2008. Virtually all of the Company's assets are collateralized under the amended and restated CGA.
Under the CGA, the Company is obligated to maintain various financial ratios and covenants that are typical for such facilities. On November 3, 2006, the Company terminated its CGA and entered
into a new Revolving Credit Facility (see Note 22 for further discussion).   

(e)    In
September 2006, the Company entered into a multicurrency term facility agreement with JP Morgan Chase Bank. At September 30, 2006, the amount outstanding under this
facility was a loan denominated in the British Pound Sterling in the amount of  9,575, which approximated $17,921 in US Dollars based upon the exchange rate as of September 30,
2006. The loan is to be paid in full at its maturity date of December 29, 2006. Interest is payable at the maturity date at LIBOR plus applicable margin. At September 30, 2006, the
interest rate was approximately 6.30%. The Company is in the process of amending the terms of the facility agreement, see Note 22 for further discussion.    

SWAP Agreement:     

The interest rate swap agreement was extinguished during the Company's fiscal third quarter 2006. This agreement was a contract to exchange floating rate debt for
fixed rate interest payments over the life of the agreement without the exchange of the underlying notional amount. The differential paid or received on the interest rate swap agreement was recognized
as an adjustment to interest. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Company recorded changes in the fair value of the SWAP through Other Comprehensive
Income ("OCI"), net of tax. During the third fiscal quarter of 2006, the SWAP was extinguished and the Company realized a gain of $353. At September 30, 2005, the SWAP was in a liability
position valued at $65.   

Capital Lease Obligations:     

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, the Company entered into various capital leases for computer equipment which provide the Company with
bargain purchase options at the end of such lease terms.   

          The
Company's credit arrangements, generally the indenture governing the 7 1 / 8 % Notes ("Indenture") and the CGA, impose certain restrictions on the Company regarding
capital expenditures and limit the Company's ability to do any of the following: incur additional indebtedness, dispose of assets, make repayments of indebtedness or amendments of debt instruments,
pay dividends or distributions, create liens on assets and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, investments, loans or advances and acquisitions. Such restrictions are subject to certain
limitations and exclusions (see Note 14 and Note 22).   

  F-34  

In addition, a default under certain covenants in the Indenture and the CGA, respectively, could result in the acceleration of the Company's payment obligations
under the CGA and the Indenture, as the case may be, and, under certain circumstances, in cross-defaults under other debt obligations. These defaults may have a negative effect on the Company's
liquidity.   

          Required
principal payments of long-term debt are as follows:   

10.    Comprehensive Income     

          Total comprehensive income for the Company includes net income, the effects of foreign currency translation, unrealized gains and losses on
available-for-sale securities and changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement treated as a cash flow hedging instrument, which are charged or credited to the
accumulated other comprehensive income account within stockholders' equity. Total comprehensive income for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as follows:   

(a)    As
a result of the sale of assets in a foreign country in the prior period, the Company wrote off the related accumulated comprehensive income.    

          Accumulated
other comprehensive income as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, net of taxes, was $29,057 and $17,586, respectively. The balance, consisting primarily of net gains on
foreign currency translation adjustments of $29,027 and $17,596, at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, has been recorded in the stockholders' equity section of the consolidated balance
sheets.   

  F-35  

The
change in the cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment primarily relates to the Company's investment in its European subsidiaries and fluctuations in exchange rates between
their local functional currencies and the U.S. Dollar.   

          During
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, the Company recorded an increase in its deferred tax liability of $7,212 relating to other comprehensive income earned during the
year. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, the Company recorded a decrease in its deferred tax liability of $2,884 relating to other comprehensive losses incurred during the year.
During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004, the Company recorded a deferred income tax liability of $13,939, including $5,302 for prior periods, relating to accumulated other comprehensive
income at September 30, 2004. Prior to October 1, 2003, the Company had not recorded a deferred income tax liability relating to accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts relating
to prior periods were not considered material.   

   11.    Income Taxes     

          Income (loss) before income taxes consists of the following components:   

Provision
for income taxes consists of the following:   

F-36  

The
following is a reconciliation of the income tax expense computed using the statutory Federal income tax rate to the actual income tax expense and the effective income tax rate.   

The
decline in the effective rate in fiscal 2006 is mainly attributable to the impact of the Foreign Earnings Repatriation ("FER") provision in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004,
which impacted fiscal 2006 by $11,289 (7.4% impact to the rate).   

  F-37  

The
components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows as of September 30:   

Deferred
tax assets have been recognized to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be realized. At September 30, 2006, the Company has foreign net operating
losses, foreign tax credit and New York State ("NYS") investment tax credit carryforwards of $9,626, $5,605 and $4,032, respectively.   

          At
September 30, 2006, the Company maintained a valuation allowance of $4,032 against the NYS investment tax credits that expire primarily between 2013 and 2016 and $3,321 against
foreign loss carryforwards which expire in accordance with applicable tax law. The Company provides a valuation allowance for these credit and loss carryforwards because it does not consider
realization of such assets to be more likely than not.   

  F-38  

The
change in the valuation allowance for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 is as follows:   

12.    Commitments     

   Operating Leases     

          The Company conducts retail operations under operating leases, which expire at various dates through 2031. Some of the leases contain escalation clauses, as well
as renewal options, and provide for contingent rent based upon sales plus certain tax and maintenance costs.   

Future
minimum rental payments (excluding real estate tax and maintenance costs) for retail locations and other leases that have initial or noncancelable lease terms in excess of one
year at September 30, 2006 are as follows for the fiscal year ending September 30:   

Operating
lease rent expense (including real estate taxes and maintenance costs) and leases on a month to month basis were approximately $112,534, $112,550 and $104,104 during fiscal
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.   

   Purchase Commitments     

          The Company was committed to make future purchases primarily for inventory related items, such as raw materials and finished goods, under various purchase
arrangements with fixed price provisions aggregating approximately $91,966 at September 30, 2006.   

Capital Commitments     

          The Company had approximately $1,487 in open capital commitments at September 30, 2006, primarily related to manufacturing equipment, as well as computer
hardware and software.   

  F-39  

Real Estate Tax Incentive Transaction     

          In August 2005, the Company entered into a sale-leaseback transaction pursuant to which it sold certain manufacturing assets and its
manufacturing facility located in Augusta, Georgia for a total purchase price of $14,973. The purchase price consisted of $14,973 in cash which was simultaneously invested and is subject to an
Industrial Revenue Bonds (IRB's) financing agreement. This agreement is intended to permit counties to attract business investment by offering property tax incentives. In accordance with Georgia law,
the Company entered into this sale-leaseback agreement with Richmond County ("the County") and acquired an Industrial Development Revenue Bond. The arrangement is structured so that the
Company's lease payments to the County equal and offset the County's bond payments to the Company. The Bond is non-recourse to the County, the Company's lease payments are pledged to
secure repayment of the Bond, and the lease and bond provide for the legal right of offset. Consequently, in accordance with Financial Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to
Certain Contracts," the investment and lease obligation related to this arrangement have been offset in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. The agreement has a maximum expiration date of 2025.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company must annually submit information regarding the value of the machinery and equipment in service in the county. If the Company had not entered into this
transaction, property tax payments would have been higher. The Company can reacquire such property and terminate the agreement at a nominal price of $1 and, accordingly, the subject property is
included in property, plant, and equipment in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. If the Company elects to reacquire the subject property prior to the expiration of the arrangement, it may also
be required to make certain adjusting property tax payments.   

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements     

          The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on its financial condition,
changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors, except for the financing commitments
previously discussed.   

   Employment and Consulting Agreements     

          The Company has employment agreements with two of its executive officers. The agreements, effective October 1, 2002, each have a term of five years and are
automatically renewed each year thereafter unless either party notifies the other to the contrary. These agreements provide for minimum salary levels and contain provisions regarding severance and
changes in control of the Company. The annual commitment for salaries to these two officers as of September 30, 2006 was approximately $1,300.   

          The
Company maintains a consulting agreement with Rudolph Management Associates, Inc. for the services of Arthur Rudolph, a director of the Company. The agreement requires
Mr. Rudolph to provide consulting services to the Company through December 31, 2007, in exchange for a consulting fee of $450 per year, payable monthly. In addition, Mr. Rudolph
receives certain fringe benefits accorded to executives of the Company.   

  F-40  

Five members of the Company's European senior executive staff have service contracts terminable by the Company upon twelve months notice. The annual aggregate
commitment for such executive staff as of September 30, 2006 was approximately $1,497.   

13.    Earnings Per Share     

          Basic earnings per share ("EPS") computations are calculated utilizing the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the fiscal years. Diluted
EPS includes the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options, as if exercised. The following is a reconciliation between basic and diluted EPS:   

14.    Dividend Restrictions     

          The CGA prohibits the Company from paying dividends or making any other distributions (other than dividends payable solely in shares of the Company's common
stock) to its stockholders. The Company's Indenture governing its 7 1 / 8 % Notes due 2015 similarly prohibits the Company from paying dividends or making any other distributions (other
than dividends payable solely in shares of the Company's stock). In addition, except as specifically permitted in the CGA, the CGA does not allow the Company's subsidiaries to advance or loan money
to, or make a capital contribution to or invest in, the Company. Furthermore, except as expressly permitted in the Indenture, the Company's subsidiaries are not permitted to invest in the Company.
However, the CGA and the Indenture do permit the Company's subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Company. On November 3, 2006, the Company terminated its CGA and entered into a new Revolving
Credit Facility (see Note 22 for further discussion).   

   15.    Stock Option Plans     

          As described in Note 1, effective October 1, 2005 the Company adopted SFAS 123(R). Stock options granted under the Company's plans generally
become exercisable on grant date and have a maximum term of ten years. The Company did not grant any stock options during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. See Note 1 for the Company's share-based
compensation accounting policy.   

  F-41  

A
summary of stock option activity is as follows:   

A
summary of stock option exercises and related activity is as follows:   

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at September 30, 2006:   

16.    Employee Benefit Plans     

          The Company sponsors a Retirement Savings Plan consisting of a 401(k) plan covering substantially all employees with more than six months of service. As allowed
under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Plan provides tax-deferred salary deductions for eligible employees. Employees may contribute from one percent to
50 percent of their annual compensation to the Plan, limited to a maximum annual amount as set, and periodically updated, by the Internal Revenue Service. Company match contributions are 100%
of employee contributions, up to two percent of the employee's gross earnings to an annual maximum match contribution of $4 per employee. Employees become fully vested in employer match contributions
after three years of service.   

  F-42  

The
Company also sponsors an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) which covers substantially all employees who are employed at calendar year end and have completed one year of service
(providing they worked at least the minimum number of hours as required by the terms of the plan during such plan year). As of September 30, 2006, all shares of the plan have been allocated to
participants' accounts. The ESOP's assets consist of the Company common stock and a small amount of cash. Total ESOP shares are considered to be shares outstanding for earnings per share calculations.   

          The
ESOP is designed to comply with Section 4975(e)(7) and the regulations thereunder of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Code) and is subject to the applicable
provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Contributions to the ESOP are made on a voluntary basis by the Company in the form of the Company's stock or cash, which is
invested by the plan's trustee in the Company's stock. There is no minimum contribution required in any one year. There are no contributions required or permitted to be made by an employee. All
contributions are allocated to participant accounts as defined by the plan. Employees become vested in their respective accounts after five years of service, as defined in plan document, provided the
ESOP is not considered top-heavy. If the ESOP is considered top-heavy, employees will become vested in the plan beginning in year 2 in increments of 20% per year over the
subsequent four years of service.   

          The
ESOP held approximately 3.5% and 4.0% of the outstanding common stock of the Company for the benefit of all participants as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

          The
accompanying financial statements reflect contributions to these plans of approximately $5,032, $4,386 and $6,142 during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.   

Certain
international subsidiaries of the Company, mainly in the U.K., have company-sponsored defined contribution plans to comply with local statutes and practices. The accompanying
financial statements reflect contributions to these plans by such subsidiaries in the approximate amount of $2,009, $1,146 and $922 during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.   

17.    Litigation Summary and Indemnification of Officers and Directors     

   Prohormone products     

New York Action     

On July 25, 2002, a putative class-action lawsuit was filed against Vitamin World, Inc., alleging that Vitamin World engaged in deceptive trade
practices and false advertising with respect to the sale of certain prohormone supplements and that the plaintiffs were therefore entitled to equitable and monetary relief under the New York General
Business Law. Similar complaints were filed against other companies in the vitamin and nutritional supplement industry. By Decision and Order filed July 18, 2006, the Court granted Vitamin
World's motion for summary judgment and dismissed all claims. The plaintiffs have appealed.   

California Action     

On July 25, 2002, a putative consumer class-action lawsuit was filed in California state court against MET-Rx USA, Inc.
("MET-Rx"), an indirect subsidiary of Rexall Sundown, Inc. ("Rexall"),   

  F-43  

claiming
that the advertising and marketing of certain prohormone supplements were false and misleading, or alternatively, that the prohormone products contained ingredients that were controlled
substances under California law. Plaintiffs seek equitable and monetary relief. On June 18, 2004, this case was coordinated with several other class-action cases brought against other companies
relating to the sale of products containing androstenediol, one of the prohormones contained in MET-Rx products. The coordinated proceedings have been assigned to a coordination judge for
further pretrial proceedings. No trial date has been set, the court has not yet certified a class, and the matter is currently in discovery. The Company has defended vigorously against the claims
asserted. Because this action is still in the early stages, no determination can be made at this time as to its final outcome, nor can its materiality be accurately ascertained.   

New Jersey Action     

In March 2004, a putative class-action lawsuit was filed in New Jersey against MET-Rx, claiming that the advertising and marketing of certain
prohormone supplements were false and misleading and that plaintiff and the putative class of New Jersey purchasers of these products were entitled to damages and injunctive relief. Because these
allegations are virtually identical to allegations made in a putative nationwide class-action previously filed in California, the Company moved to dismiss or stay the New Jersey action pending the
outcome of the California action. The motion was granted, and the New Jersey action is stayed at this time.   

Florida Action     

In July 2002, a putative class-action lawsuit was filed in Florida against MET-Rx, claiming that the advertising and marketing of certain
prohormone supplements were false and misleading, that the products were ineffective, and alternatively, that the products were anabolic steroids whose sale violated Florida law. Plaintiff seeks
equitable and monetary relief. This case has been largely inactive since its filing. No determination can be made at this time as to its final outcome, nor can its materiality be accurately
ascertained.   

   Nutrition Bars     

          Rexall and certain of its subsidiaries are defendants in a class-action lawsuit brought in 2002 on behalf of all California consumers who bought various nutrition
bars. Plaintiffs allege misbranding of nutrition bars and violations of California unfair competition statutes, misleading advertising and other similar causes of action. Plaintiffs seek restitution,
legal fees and injunctive relief. The Company has defended this action vigorously. Until recently, the case was stayed for all purposes, pending rulings on relevant cases before the California Supreme
Court. The Court has now lifted the stay and has permitted Rexall and the other defendants to re-raise a motion for judgment on the pleadings. The court has scheduled a conference on that
motion for January 10, 2007. Based upon the information available at this time, the Company believes that its accrual is adequate for the exposure in the nutrition bar litigation. However, no
determination can be made at this time as to the final outcome of this case, nor can its materiality be accurately ascertained.   

  F-44  

Shareholder Litigation     

          From June 24, 2004 through September 3, 2004, six separate shareholder class-actions were filed against the Company and certain of its officers and
directors in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, on behalf of shareholders who purchased shares of the Company's common stock between February 9, 2004 and
July 22, 2004 (the potential "Class Period"). The actions allege that the Company failed to disclose material facts during the Class Period that resulted in a decline in the price of its stock
after June 16, 2004 and July 22, 2004, respectively. The Court consolidated the six class-actions in March 2005 and appointed lead plaintiff and counsel. The lead plaintiffs filed
a consolidated amended complaint alleging an amended class period from November 10, 2003 to July 22, 2004. Along with the officers and directors, the Company filed a motion to dismiss
the action. The motion was denied on May 1, 2006, and the matter is now in discovery.   

          In
addition to the shareholder class-actions, two shareholder derivative actions were filed in the Eastern District of New York, on July 9, 2004 and August 26, 2004,
respectively, against certain of the Company's officers and directors. The Company is named as a nominal defendant. The two derivative actions which were consolidated were predicated upon the
allegations set forth in the shareholder class-actions and alleged improper sales of the Company's shares by certain officers and directors. On December 27, 2004, the District Court granted the
Company's motion to dismiss this complaint. The plaintiffs filed an appeal. The Second Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal on December 20, 2005. By letter dated February 27,
2006, one of the derivative plaintiffs whose claim was dismissed demanded that the Company's board of directors file a civil action against certain officers and directors in connection with the
allegations set forth in that derivative plaintiff's original complaint. The board rejected this shareholder demand based upon its prior investigation of a similar demand by another alleged
shareholder, as described below.   

          An
additional shareholder derivative action was filed on October 7, 2004 in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, Suffolk County, alleging breaches of fiduciary duties by
the Company's individual directors and officers. The Company is named as a nominal defendant. The derivative claims are predicated upon the same allegations as in the dismissed Eastern District
consolidated derivative action and upon claims arising from the Company's 2003 acquisition of Rexall. The shareholder who filed this derivative action agreed to voluntarily discontinue it in light of
the dismissal of the Eastern District consolidated derivative action. A stipulation of dismissal was filed.   

          Also,
a purported shareholder of the Company delivered a demand in July 2004 that the Company's board of directors commence a civil action against certain of the Company's
officers and directors based on certain of the allegations described above. The Company's board of directors, based on the investigation and recommendation of a special committee of the Board,
determined not to commence any such lawsuit. On or about April 28, 2005, a second state court derivative action was filed in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, Suffolk County, by this
purported shareholder alleging wrongful rejection of his demand and breaches of fiduciary duties by some of the Company's individual directors and officers. The Company is named as a nominal
defendant. This derivative complaint is predicated upon the same allegations as the dismissed Eastern District consolidated derivative action. Along with the named officers and directors, the Company
has filed a motion to dismiss.   

  F-45  

The
Company and its named officers and directors believe these suits are without merit and vigorously have defended these actions. Given the early stages of the proceedings, however, no
determination can be made at this time as to the final outcome of these actions, nor can their materiality be accurately ascertained. The Company maintains policies of directors' and officers'
personal liability insurance.   

          In
addition to the foregoing, other regulatory inquiries, claims, suits and complaints (including product liability and intellectual property claims) arise in the ordinary course of the
Company's business. The Company believes that such other inquiries, claims, suits and complaints would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition or results
of operations, if determined against the Company.   

   Indemnification of Officers and Directors     

          The Company is incorporated under the laws of Delaware. Section 145(a) of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL") provides that a
corporation may indemnify officers and directors of the corporation against expenses incurred by them if they acted in good faith and in a manner they reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to
the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceedings, if they had no reasonable cause to believe that their conduct was unlawful.   

          As
permitted by the DGCL, the Company has provided in its certificate of incorporation for the indemnification to the full extent permitted by Section 145 of the DGCL of the
persons who may be indemnified pursuant thereto. Further, the Company has provided in its certificate of incorporation that a director of the corporation shall not be personally liable to the
corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or
its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good
faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the DGCL, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an
improper personal benefit.   

          Finally,
the directors and officers of the Company are covered by directors' and officers' insurance policies maintained by the Company.   

   18.    Segment Information     

          The Company is organized by sales segments on a worldwide basis. The Company's management reporting system evaluates performance based on a number of factors;
however, the primary measures of performance are the net sales, gross profit and income or loss from operations (prior to corporate allocations) of each segment, as this is the key performance
indicator(s) reviewed by management. Operating income or loss for each segment does not include corporate general and administrative expenses, interest expense and other miscellaneous income/expense
items. Corporate general and administrative expenses include, but are not limited to: human resources, legal, finance, IT, and various other corporate level activity related expenses. Such unallocated
expenses remain within corporate. Corporate also includes the manufacturing assets of the Company and, accordingly, certain items associated with these activities, remain unallocated in the corporate
segment. The European Retail   

  F-46  

operation
does not include the impact of any intercompany transfer pricing. The accounting policies of all operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting
policies in Note 1.   

          The
Company reports four segments: Wholesale / US Nutrition; North American Retail; European Retail; and Direct Response/Puritan's Pride. All of the Company's products fall into one or
more of these four segments. The Wholesale / US Nutrition segment is comprised of several divisions, each targeting specific market groups which include wholesalers, distributors, chains, pharmacies,
health food stores, bulk and international customers. The North American Retail segment generates revenue through its 476 owned and operated Vitamin World stores selling proprietary brand and
third-party products and through its Canadian operation of 95 Company-owned Le Naturiste stores and 1 franchised Le Naturiste store. The European Retail segment generates revenue through its 596
Company-owned stores and 21 franchised stores. Such revenue consists of sales of proprietary brand and third-party products as well as franchise fees. The Direct Response/Puritan's Pride segment
generates revenue through the sale of proprietary brand and third-party products primarily through mail order catalog and the Internet. Catalogs are strategically mailed to customers who order by
mail, internet, or by phoning customer service representatives in New York, Illinois or the United Kingdom.   

  F-47  

The
following table represents key financial information of the Company's business segments:   

F-48  

18.    Segment Information     

(a)     Includes trademarked brand impairment charge of $10,450 and other impairments of $920 for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 (see Note 7).        
      (b)     Includes goodwill and property, plant and equipment impairment charges of $3,141, $11,204 and $2,603 for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively (see Note 7).    

F-49  

The
Company's identifiable assets by segment as of September 30, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:   

Approximately
35% and 34% of the Company's net sales for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars,
principally British Pounds, Euros and Canadian Dollars. Approximately 31% of the Company's net sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004 was denominated in currencies other than U.S.
dollars, principally British Pounds and Euros. A significant weakening of such currencies versus the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on the Company, as this would result in a decrease
in the Company's consolidated operating results.   

          Foreign
subsidiaries accounted for the following percentages of assets and total liabilities as of September 30, 2006 and 2005:   

19.    Related Party Transactions     

          An entity owned by a relative of a director and the Chief Executive Officer received sales commissions from the Company of $677, $693 and $732 in fiscal 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively.   

  F-50  

20.    Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements of Guarantors of Senior Subordinated Notes     

The 7 1 / 8 % Notes are guaranteed by all of the Company's domestic subsidiaries. The Solgar domestic subsidiary became a guarantor of the
7 1 / 8 % Notes effective July 1, 2006. See Note 9 Long-Term Debt, for additional information regarding the 7 1 / 8 % Notes. The Company's
domestic subsidiaries are wholly-owned by the Company. These guarantees are full, unconditional and joint and several. The following condensed consolidating financial information presents:   

(1)    Condensed
consolidating balance sheets as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and statements of income and statements of cash flows for the fiscal years ended September 30,
2006, 2005 and 2004 of (a) NBTY Inc., the parent and issuer, (b) the guarantor subsidiaries, (c) the non-guarantor subsidiaries, and (d) the Company on a
consolidated basis, and
      (2)    Elimination
entries necessary to consolidate NBTY Inc., the parent, with guarantor and non-guarantor subsidiaries.    

The
condensed consolidating financial statements are presented using the equity method of accounting for investments in wholly-owned subsidiaries. Under this method, the investments in
subsidiaries are recorded at cost and adjusted for the Company's share of the subsidiaries' cumulative results of operations, capital contributions, distributions and other equity changes. The
principal elimination entries eliminate investments in subsidiaries and intercompany balances and transactions. This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and other notes related thereto.   

  F-51  

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET   AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2006            

F-52  

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET   AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2005            

F-53  

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME   YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2006            

F-54  

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME   YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2005            

F-55  

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME   YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2004            

F-56  

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS   FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2006            

F-57  

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS   FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2005            

F-58  

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS   FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2004            

F-59  

21.    Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)     

          The following is a summary of the unaudited quarterly results of operations for fiscal 2006 and 2005 (amounts may not equal fiscal year totals due to rounding):   

Income
before income taxes and Net income amounts above include an inventory valuation adjustment ($1,983) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and impairment charges recorded in each
respective quarter as follows (see Note 7):   

22.    Subsequent Events     

          On August 13, 2006, the Company entered into a purchase agreement to acquire 100% of the stock of Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc. ("ZNI"), a division of
Zila, Inc. ("Zila"), for $37,500 in cash and up to a $3,000 contingent cash payment which is based upon the EBITDA performance of ZNI during the one-year period following the
closing. The $37,500 purchase price includes an estimated $6,800 of working capital and is subject to a post-closing adjustment based on the final ZNI working capital at closing. ZNI
manufactures and markets Ester-C , which is known throughout multiple markets   

  F-60  

including
health food stores and mass market retailers. This acquisition represents an opportunity for the Company to enhance its presence in key markets. ZNI had approximately $21,000 in net revenue
for the twelve months ended July 31, 2006. On September 27, 2006, Zila shareholders approved this transaction and on October 2, 2006, the Company completed this acquisition. The
$37,500 purchase price was paid by the Company out of cash on hand.   

          On
November 3, 2006, the Company entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral
Agent, and Bank of America, N.A., BNP Paribas, Citibank, N.A., and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as Co-Syndication Agents. The Credit Agreement provides for revolving credit loans
in the aggregate principal amount of up to $325,000 to be used for (a) the repayment of all obligations outstanding under the Company's prior credit agreement (which consisted solely of
commitment fees since the Company had previously repaid all amounts borrowed under the prior credit agreement), (b) working capital and other general corporate purposes, and
(c) acquisitions. In connection with the Credit Agreement, the Company's prior credit agreement was terminated. The terms and requirements of the Credit Agreement are substantially the same as
the prior credit agreement. The Company's obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of its assets and are guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of the Company, in each case
to the extent set forth in the Guarantee and Collateral Agreement (the "Guarantee") that was entered into on November 3, 2006.   

          In
September 2006, the Company entered into a multicurrency term facility agreement with JP Morgan Chase Bank. The facility matures on December 29, 2006. The Company
is currently in the process of amending the terms of the facility agreement to extend such maturity from 90 days to two years.   

  F-61  

SCHEDULE II   NBTY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   For the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004            

(a)    Uncollectibe
accounts written off.
      (b)    Represents
actual product returns.
      (c)    Represents
the opening balance sheet allowances from the Le Naturiste, SISU and Solgar acquisitions.    
  S-1  

SIGNATURES            

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

NBTY, INC.    (Registrant)  

By:  
   
/s/    SCOTT RUDOLPH            Scott Rudolph     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

Dated:
December 11, 2006   

          Pursuant
to the requirements of the Exchange Act, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   

Signature    
     
   Title    
     
   Date    

/s/    SCOTT RUDOLPH            Scott Rudolph  

Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer)  

December 11, 2006  

/s/    HARVEY KAMIL            Harvey Kamil  

President and Chief 
Financial Officer 
(Principal Operating Officer, 
Principal Financial and 
Accounting Officer)  

December 11, 2006  

/s/    ARTHUR RUDOLPH            Arthur Rudolph  

Director  

December 11, 2006  

/s/    ARAM G. GARABEDIAN            Aram G. Garabedian  

Director  

December 11, 2006  

/s/    MURRAY DALY            Murray Daly  

Director  

December 11, 2006  

/s/    GLENN COHEN            Glenn Cohen  

Director  

December 11, 2006  

QuickLinks    
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.   
 
  NBTY, INC. ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2006 TABLE OF CONTENTS   
 
  PART I   
 
  PART II   
  DIVIDEND POLICY   
  PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK   
  SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS   
  PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES BY THE ISSUER AND AFFILIATED PURCHASERS   

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING   
  PART III   
  PART IV   
 
  NBTY, INC. INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

NBTY, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets September 30, 2006 and 2005 (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share amounts)   
 
  NBTY, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Income Years Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share amounts)   
 
  NBTY, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Years Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in thousands)   
 
  NBTY, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Continued) Years Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in thousands)   
 
  NBTY, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Years Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share amounts)   
 
  NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2006   

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2005   

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2006   

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2005   

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2004   

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2006   

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2005   

NBTY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2004   

SCHEDULE II NBTY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Valuation and Qualifying Accounts For the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004   
 
  SIGNATURES   

<EX-3.2>
 2
 a2174922zex-3_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 3.2

Exhibit 3.2          AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS         OF         NBTY, INC.              ARTICLE I - OFFICES         SECTION 1. REGISTERED OFFICE. - The registered office shall be established and maintained at 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, County of New Castle in the State of Delaware.         SECTION 2. OTHER OFFICES. - The corporation may have other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, at such place or places as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint or the business of the corporation may require.         ARTICLE II - MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS         SECTION 1. ANNUAL MEETINGS. - Annual meetings of stockholders for the election of directors, and for such other business as may be stated in the notice of the meetin
g, shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, and at such times and date as the Board of Directors, by resolution, shall determine and as set forth in the notice of the meeting.         At an annual meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted, and only such proposals shall be acted upon, as shall have been brought before the annual meeting (a) by, or at the direction of, the presiding officer of the annual meeting or (b) by any stockholder of the corporation who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section. For a proposal to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof, in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be
 timely, stockholder s notice must be delivered to, or mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, and received at, the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the scheduled annual meeting, regardless of any postponements, deferrals or adjournments of that meeting to a later date; provided, however, that, if less than 70 days  notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the scheduled annual meeting is given or made, notice by the stockholder, to be timely, must be so delivered or received not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the earlier of the day on which such notice of the date of the scheduled annual meeting was mailed or the day on which such public disclosure was made. A stockholder s notice to the Secretary shall set forth, as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting, (a) a brief description of the proposal desired to be brought before the an
nual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation s books, of the stockholder proposing  

such business and any other stockholders known by such stockholder to be supporting such proposal, (c) the class and number of shares of the corporation s stock that are beneficially owned by the stockholder on the date of such stockholder notice and by any other stockholders known by such stockholder to be supporting such proposal on the date of such stockholder notice, and (d) any financial interest of the stockholder in such proposal.         The presiding officer of the annual meeting shall determine and declare at the annual meeting whether a stockholder proposal was made in accordance with the terms of this Section. If the presiding officer determines th
at a stockholder proposal was not made in accordance with the terms of this Section, he or she shall so declare at the annual meeting and any such proposal shall not be acted upon at the annual meeting.         No business shall be conducted at an annual meeting, except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section. Nothing contained in this Section shall preclude the corporation from excluding from any proxy materials, to the extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware, any stockholder proposal of a type described in Rule 14a-8(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor or similar provision.         SECTION 2. SPECIAL MEETINGS. - Special meetings of the stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, may be called at any time by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President of the corporation. Special meetings of the stockholders of the corporation may not be called by any other person or persons. Special meetings may be held at such time and place, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be stated in the notice of the meeting. No business may be transacted at such meeting except that referred to in the notice thereof.         SECTION 3. CONDUCT OF MEETINGS. - The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of meetings of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the presiding officer of any meeting of the stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding officer, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations and procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the presiding officer of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (a) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (b) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (c) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to st
ockholders of record of the corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding officer of the meeting shall determine; (d) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (e) limitations on the time allotted to questions and/or comments by participants. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the presiding officer of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.  

SECTION 4. VOTING. - Each stockholder entitled to vote in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws shall be entitled to one vote, in person or by proxy, for each share of stock entitled to vote held by such stockholder. The vote for directors and upon any question before the meeting shall be by ballot. All elections for directors shall be deiced by plurality vote; all other questions shall be decided by majority affirmative vote, except as otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or required by the laws of the State of Delaware.         SECTION 5. PROXIES. - Any stockholder entitle
d to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for him, her or it by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. Without limiting the manner in which a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for him, her or it as proxy, the foregoing shall constitute a valid means by which a stockholder may grant such authority; (a) a stockholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for him, her or it as proxy; execution may be accomplished by the stockholder or his, her or its authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing his or her signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means, including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature; and (b) a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for him, her or it as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram or other me
ans of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission,  provided that such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. It if is determined that such telegrams,  cablegrams or other electronic transmissions are valid, the inspectors or, if there are no inspectors, such other persons making that determination shall specify the information upon which they relied. Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission required by the above may be submitted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original w
riting or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction is a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.         A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A proxy may be made irrevocable regardless of whether the interest with which it is coupled is an interest in the stock itself or an interest in the corporation generally.         SECTION 6. STOCKHOLDER LIST. - The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the corporation shall at least 10 days before each meeting of the stockholders prepare a complete alphabetical addressed list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the ensuing election, with the number of shares held by each. Said list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at  

the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall be available for inspection at the meeting.         SECTION 7. QUORUM; ADJOURNMENT. - Except as otherwise required by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, the presence, in person or by proxy, of stockholders holding a majority of the stock of the corporation entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders. In case a quorum shall not be present at any meeting, the presiding officer of the meeting or a majority in interest of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat present in person or by proxy shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, 
without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until the requisite amount of stock entitled to vote shall be present. At any such adjourned meeting at which the requisite amount of stock entitled to vote shall be represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed; but only those stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting as originally noticed shall be entitled to vote at any adjournment or adjournments thereof. In addition, the Board of Directors may adjourn a meeting of the stockholders if the Board of Directors determines that adjournment is necessary or appropriate in order to enable the stockholders (a) to consider fully information that the Board of Directors determine has not been made sufficiently or timely available to stockholders or (b) to otherwise effectively exercise their voting rights.         SECTION 8. NOTICE OF MEETINGS. - Written notice, stating the place, date and time of the meeting, and the general nature of the business to be considered, shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat at his, her or its address as it appears on the records of the corporation, not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting.         SECTION 9. ACTION WITHOUT MEETING. - Except as otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, whenever the vote of stockholders at a meeting thereof is required or permitted to be taken in connection with any corporate action by any provisions of the statutes or the Certi
ficate of Incorporation or of these By-Laws, the meeting and vote of stockholders may be dispensed with if all the stockholders who would have been entitled to vote upon the action if such meeting were held shall consent in writing to such corporate action being taken.         ARTICLE III - DIRECTORS         SECTION 1. NUMBER AND TERM. - The number of directors shall be at least three and not more than eleven, unless otherwise set by a resolution passed by a vote of Directors comprising seventy-five (75%) percent 
of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors of the Company shall be divided into three classes of directors, in such manner as the Board of Directors in its sole discretion may determine, each class to be elected in annual sequences for terms of three years each after the implementation of the classes (or until their successors are duly elected and qualified). Until fully implemented, the term of the office of the first class shall expire at the annual meeting next ensuing; of the second class one year thereafter; of the third class two years thereafter; and at each annual election held after such classification and election, directors shall be chosen for a full term of three years. Vacancies which occur during the year may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors in accordance with Section 6 of this Article III.  

SECTION 2. NOMINATIONS. - Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors by any nominating committee or person appointed by the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors at the annual meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder s notice must be delivered to, or mailed, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, and received at, the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the scheduled annual meeting,
 regardless of any postponements, deferrals or adjournments of the annual meeting to a later date; provided, however, that, if less than 70 days  notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the scheduled annual meeting is given or made, notice by the stockholder, to be timely, must be so delivered or received not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the earlier of the day on which such notice of the date of the scheduled annual meeting was mailed or the day on which such public disclosure was made. A stockholder s notice to the Secretary shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the corporation that are beneficially owned by the person and (iv) any other information relating to the person that is required 
to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies for the election of directors pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor or similar provision, and (b) as to the stockholder giving notice, (i) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation s books, of the stockholder, and (ii) the class and number of shares of the corporation s stock that are beneficially owned by the stockholder on the date of such stockholder notice. The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the corporation. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section.         The presiding officer of the annual meeting shall determine, in his sole discretion, and declare at the annual meeting whether the nomination was made in accordance with the terms of this Section. If the presiding officer determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the terms of this Section, he or she shall so declare at the annual meeting and any such defective nomination shall be disregarded.         SECTION 3. RESIGNATIONS. - Any director, member of a committee or other officer may resign at any time. Such resignation shall be made in writing, and shall take effect at the time specified therein, and if no time be specified, at the ti
me of its receipt by the President or Secretary. The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.         SECTION 4. REMOVAL. - Any director or directors may be removed for cause at any time by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of all the shares of stock outstanding and entitled to vote, at a special meeting of the stockholders called for the purpose.  

SECTION 5. INCREASE OF NUMBER. - The number of directors may be increased by amendment of these By-Laws by the affirmative vote of seventy-five (75%) percent of the entire Board of Directors.         SECTION 6. NEWLY CREATED DIRECTORSHIPS AND VACANCIES. - Newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office for cause shall be filled only by the affirmative vote of seventy-five (75%) percent of the directors then in office, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expir
ing at the annual meeting of stockholders at which time the term of office of the class to which they have been elected expires and until such director s successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. If the office of any member of a committee becomes vacant, the remaining directors in office, though less than a quorum, by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of such directors, may appoint any qualified person to fill such vacancy.         SECTION 7. COMPENSATION. - Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors any may be paid a fixed s
um for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and/or a stated salary as director. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.         SECTION 8. ACTION WITHOUT MEETING. - Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting, if, prior to such action, a written consent thereto is signed by all members of the Board of Directors, or of such committee, as the case may be, and such written consent is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or s
uch committee.         ARTICLE IV   OFFICERS       

  SECTION 1. OFFICERS   The officers of the Corporation
shall consist of a Chief Executive Officer and a Secretary, to be appointed by
the Board of Directors. In addition, the Board of Directors, in its sole
discretion, may elect a Chairman, appoint a President, a Chief Financial
Officer, one or more Vice Presidents and such Treasurers, Assistant Secretaries
and/or other officers. None of the officers of the Corporation need be
directors. The officers shall be appointed at the first meeting of the Board of
Directors after each annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and
shall hold office until their respective successors are appointed and
qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification or removal. More than one office may be held by the same
person at the same time.  

SECTION 2. OTHER OFFICERS AND AGENTS   The Board of
Directors may appoint such officers and agents as it may deem advisable, who
shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such power and
perform such duties as shall be determined from time to  

time by the Board of
Directors.  

SECTION 3. CHAIRMAN   The Chairman of the Board of
Directors, if one be elected, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Directors. The Chairman shall have and perform such other duties as from time
to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors.  

SECTION 4. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   The Chief
Executive Officer shall have general supervision, direction and control of the
business of the Corporation and shall see that all orders and resolutions of
the Board of Directors are carried into effect. He shall preside at all
meetings of the stockholders if present thereat, and in the absence or
non-election of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, at all meetings of the
Board of Directors. Except as the Board of Directors shall authorize the
execution thereof in some other manner, the Chief Executive Officer shall
execute bonds, mortgages, and other contracts on behalf of the Corporation, and
shall cause the seal to be affixed to any instrument requiring it and when so
affixed the seal shall be attested by the signature of the Secretary, a
Treasurer or an Assistant Secretary, if so required.  

SECTION 5. PRESIDENT   The President shall have the
general powers and duties of supervision and management usually vested in the
office of President of a Corporation. In the absence of the Chief Executive
Officer, he shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders if present
thereat. He shall possess the same authority as the Chief Executive Officer to
execute bonds, mortgages, and other contracts on behalf of the Corporation, and
shall cause the seal to be affixed to any instrument requiring it and when so
affixed the seal shall be attested by the signature of the Secretary, a
Treasurer or an Assistant Secretary, if so required.  

SECTION 6. CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   The Chief
Financial Officer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities
and shall keep full and accurate account of receipts and disbursements in books
belonging to the Corporation. He shall deposit all moneys and other valuables
in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be
designated by the Board of Directors.  

The Chief Financial Officer shall disburse the funds
of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chief
Executive Officer or the President, taking proper vouchers for such
disbursements. He shall render to the Chief Executive Officer, the President
and the Board of Directors at the regular meetings of the Board of Directors,
or whenever they may request it, an account of all his transactions as Chief
Financial Officer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If
required by the Board of Directors, he shall give the Corporation a bond for
the faithful discharge of his duties in such amount and with such surety as the
Board of Directors shall prescribe.  

SECTION 7. VICE-PRESIDENT   Each Vice-President shall
have such power and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him by
the Board of Directors.  

SECTION 8. SECRETARY
  The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of
stockholders and directors, and all other notices required by law or by these  

By-Laws, and in case of
his absence or refusal or neglect so to do, any such notice may be given by any
person thereunto directed by the President, or by the Board of Directors, or
stockholders, upon whose requisition the meeting is called as provided in these
By-Laws. He shall record all the proceedings of the meeting of the Corporation
and of directors in a book to be kept for that purpose. He shall keep in safe
custody the seal of the Corporation, and when authorized by the Board of
Directors, affix the same to any instrument requiring it, and when so affixed,
it shall be attested by his signature or by the signature of any Assistant
Secretary, if so required.  

SECTION 9. TREASURERS,
ASSISTANT TREASURERS   ASSISTANT SECRETARIES.   Treasurers, Assistant
Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries shall have such powers and shall perform
such duties as shall be assigned to them, respectively, by the Board of
Directors.  

ARTICLE V - MISCELLANEOUS         SECTION 1. CERTIFICATES OF STOCK. - Every holder of stock in the corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate, signed by, or in the name of the corporation by, the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or a Vice-President and the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary of the corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by him, her or it in the corporation. If the corporation shall be authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, the designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special r
ights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations, or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate which the corporation shall issue to represent such class of series of stock, provided that, except as otherwise provided in Section 202 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, in lieu of the foregoing requirements, there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate which the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. Where a certificate is countersigned (a) by a transfer agent other than the corporation or its employee or (b) by a registra
r other than the corporation or its employee, the signature of such officers may be facsimiles.         SECTION 2. LOST CERTIFICATES. - New certificates of stock may be issued in the place of any certificate previously issued by the corporation, alleged to have been lost or destroyed, and the directors may, in their discretion, require the owner of the lost or destroyed certificate, or his legal representatives, to give the corporation a bond, in such sum as they may direct, not exceeding double the value of the stock, to indemnify the corporation against it on account of the alleged loss of any such new certificate.         SECTION 3. TRANSFER OF SHARES. - The shares of stock of the corporation shall be transferable only upon its books by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives, and upon such transfer the old certificates shall be surrendered to the corporation by the delivery thereof to the person in charge of the stock and transfer books  

and ledgers, or to such other persons as the directors may designate, by who they shall be canceled, and new certificates shall thereupon be issued. A record shall be made of each transfer and whenever a transfer shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer.         SECTION 4. STOCKHOLDERS RECORD DATE. - In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or al
lotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 days nor less than 10 days before the day of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.         SECTION 5. DIVIDENDS. - Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may, out of funds legally available there
for at any regular or special meeting, declare dividends upon the capital stock of the corporation as and when they deem expedient. Before declaring any dividends there may be set apart out of any funds of the corporation available for dividends, such sum or sums as directors from time to time in their discretion deem proper working capital or as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or for equalizing dividends or for such other purposes as the directors shall deem conducive to the interest of the corporation.         SECTION 6. SEAL. - The corporate seal shall be circular in form and shall contain the name of the corporation, the year of its creation and the words  CORPORATE SEAL DELAWARE.  Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to 
be impressed or affixed or otherwise reproduced.         SECTION 7. FISCAL YEAR. - The fiscal year of the corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.         SECTION 8. CHECKS. - All checks, drafts, or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidence of indebtedness issued in the name of the corporation shall be signed by the officer or officers, agent or agents of the corporation, and in such manner as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Dir
ectors.         SECTION 9. NOTICE AND WAIVER OF NOTICE. - Whenever, under applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, notice is required to be given to any director or stockholder, such notice may be given by person, in writing, or by mail, telegram, facsimile, telecommunication or other electronic transmission, addressed to such director or stockholder, at his, her or its address as it appears on the records of the corporation. Notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be (a) personally delivered, (b) guaranteed to be delivered, if transmitted timely to a third party company or governmental entity  

providing delivery services in the ordinary course of business, (c) deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, or (d) when electronically telecommunicated, each as the case may be. Notice to directors also may be given by telegram, telephone or mailgram.         Whenever any notice is required to be given under applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, a waiver thereof, in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. Stockholders not entitled to vote shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meetings except as otherwis
e provided by statute.         SECTION 10. INVALID PROVISIONS. - If any part of these By-Laws shall be held invalid or inoperative for any reason, the remaining parts, so far as it is possible and reasonable, shall remain valid and operative.         SECTION 11. INDEMNIFICATION. -   In addition to any other available rights, the Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, advance the reasonable expenses incurred by any person prior to the fin
al disposition of any action for which indemnification is available under Article SIXTH of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation. As a condition precedent to such advancement, such person shall provide the Corporation with a written undertaking to repay the amounts advanced if it is ultimately determined that such person is not entitled to indemnification under Article SIXTH of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation.         ARTICLE VI - AMENDMENTS         These By-La
ws may be altered and repealed and By-Laws may be made at any annual meeting of the stockholders, or at any special meeting thereof if notice thereof is contained in the notice of such special meeting, by the affirmative vote of seventy-five (75%) percent of the stock issued and outstanding or entitled to vote thereat. These By-Laws may be altered and repealed and By-Laws may be made at any regular meeting of the Board of Directors, or at any special meeting thereof of notice thereof is contained in the notice of such special meeting, by the affirmative vote of seventy-five (75%) percent of the entire Board of Directors.  

</EX-3.2>

<EX-10.8>
 3
 a2174922zex-10_8.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.8

Exhibit 10.8   

FIFTH AMENDMENT TO EXECUTIVE
CONSULTING AGREEMENT    

This Fifth
Amendment to Executive Consulting Agreement is made as of the 1 st 
day of January, 2007, by and between NBTY, Inc. (the  Company ) and RUDOLPH
MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATES, INC., a Florida corporation ( RMA ).  

W I T N E S S E T H:  

WHEREAS,
the Company and RMA entered into that certain Executive Consulting Agreement,
dated as of January 1, 2002 (as amended by the First Amendment, the Second
Amendment, the Third Amendment, and the Fourth Amendment, the  Agreement   

WHEREAS,
the term of the Agreement expires on December 31, 2006 (the  Term   

WHEREAS,
the Compensation Committee of the Company (the  Committee ) met on October 10,
2006, with all members of the Committee present to consider whether to extend
the Term of the Agreement;  

WHEREAS,
the Committee decided to extend the Term of the Agreement; and  

WHEREAS,
RMA and ARTHUR RUDOLPH desire to continue to make their respective services as
an Executive Consultant available to the Company.  

NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises hereafter contained and for
other good and valuable consideration, the parties agree as follows:  

1.              Term . Section 1 of the
Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:  

1.            Retention .
The Company hereby retains RMA to provide the services of ARTHUR RUDOLPH and
ARTHUR RUDOLPH hereby accepts the engagement of Executive Consultant from
January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007 (the  Term ).   

2.              Continuity . Except as otherwise expressly amended
by this Fifth Amendment, the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.  

3.              Governing Law; Counterparts . This Amendment shall
be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of New York. This
Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be
considered an original for all purposes, and all of which when taken together
constitute a single counterpart instrument.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed
this Amendment as of the day and year first above written.  

RUDOLPH MANAGEMENT   

NBTY, INC.  

ASSOCIATES, INC.  

By:  

/s/ Arthur Rudolph  

By:  

/s/ Harvey Kamil   

Arthur Rudolph  

Harvey Kamil  

President  

President  

Agreed and
  Consented:  

/s/ Arthur
  Rudolph  

ARTHUR RUDOLPH,
  individually  

2  

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.14>
 4
 a2174922zex-10_14.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.14

Exhibit 10.14   

$18,000,000  

FACILITY
AGREEMENT  

dated
20 September 2006  

for  

GOOD  N  NATURAL LIMITED   

as
Borrower  

with  

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., LONDON BRANCH   

as
Lender  

MULTICURRENCY
TERM FACILITY AGREEMENT  

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. 
125 London Wall 
London EC2Y 5AJ   

CONTENTS   

THIS
AGREEMENT   is dated [                               
    ] September 2006 and made between: 

(1)                               GOOD  N  NATURAL LIMITED ,  a
limited liability company registered at Companies House with registered number
5907954 and with its registered address at Samuel Ryder House, Townsend Drive,
Attleborough Fields, Nuneaton, Warwickshire, CV11 6XW as borrower (the   Borrower   and 

(2)                               JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., LONDON BRANCH  as lender (the   Lender  ). 

IT IS
AGREED   as follows: 

1.               DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION  

1.1            Definitions  

In this Agreement:  

Additional Cost Rate   has the meaning given
to it in Schedule 3 ( Mandatory Cost
formulae ).  

Affiliate   means, in relation to any
person, a Subsidiary of that person or a Holding Company of that person or any
other Subsidiary of that Holding Company.  

Authorisation   means an authorisation,
consent, approval, resolution, licence, exemption, filing, notarisation or
registration.  

Availability Period     means the period from and including the
date of this Agreement to and including 6 October 2006.  

Available Facility   means the amount of the
Facility, minus:  

(a)                                        the Base
Currency Amount of any outstanding Loans; and 

(b)                                        in
relation to any proposed Utilisation, the Base Currency Amount of any Loans
that are due to be made on or before the proposed Utilisation Date. 

Base Currency   means dollars.  

Base Currency Amount   means, in relation to
a Loan, the amount specified in the Utilisation Request for that Loan (or, if
the amount requested is not denominated in the Base Currency, that amount converted
into the Base Currency at the Lender s Spot Rate of Exchange on the date which
is three Business Days before the Utilisation Date or, if later, on the date
the Lender receives the Utilisation Request) adjusted to reflect any repayment
(other than a repayment arising from a change of currency), prepayment,
consolidation or division of the Loan.  

Break Costs   means the amount (if any) by
which:  

(a)                                        the
interest which the Lender should have received for the period from the date of
receipt of all or any part of a Loan or Unpaid Sum to the last day of  

1  

the current Interest Period in respect of that Loan or Unpaid Sum, had
the principal amount or Unpaid Sum received been paid on the last day of that Interest
Period;  

exceeds:  

(b)                                        the amount
which the Lender would be able to obtain by placing an amount equal to the
principal amount or Unpaid Sum received by it on deposit with a leading bank in
the Relevant Interbank Market for a period starting on the Business Day
following receipt or recovery and ending on the last day of the current
Interest Period. 

Business Day   means a day (other than a
Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in London and
in relation to any date for payment or purchase of any amount denominated in
dollars, New York.  

Default   means an Event of Default or any
event or circumstance specified in Clause 19 ( Events
of Default ) which would (with the expiry of a grace period, the
giving of notice, the making of any determination under the Finance Documents
or any combination of any of the foregoing) be an Event of Default.  

Event of Default   means any event or
circumstance specified as such in Clause 19 ( Events of Default ).  

Facility   means the term loan facility in
an aggregate amount of $18,000,000 made available under this Agreement as
described in Clause 2 ( The Facility )
to the extent not cancelled, reduced or transferred under this Agreement.  

Facility Office   means the office or
offices identified with the Lender s signature below or such other office as it
may from time to time select by notice to the Borrower as the office or
offices through which it will perform its obligations under this
Agreement.  

Finance Document   means this Agreement and
any other document designated as such by the Lender and the Borrower.  

Financial Indebtedness   means any
indebtedness for or in respect of:  

(a)                                        moneys
borrowed; 

(b)                                        any amount
raised by acceptance under any acceptance credit facility or dematerialised
equivalent; 

(c)                                         any amount
raised pursuant to any note purchase facility or the issue of bonds, notes,
debentures, loan stock or any similar instrument; 

(d)                                        the amount
of any liability in respect of any lease or hire purchase contract which would,
in accordance with GAAP, be treated as a finance or capital lease; 

2  

(e)                                         receivables
sold or discounted (other than any receivables to the extent they are sold on a
non-recourse basis); 

(f)                                          any amount
raised under any other transaction (including any forward sale or purchase
agreement) having the commercial effect of a borrowing; 

(g)                                         any
derivative transaction entered into in connection with protection against or
benefit from fluctuation in any rate or price (and, when calculating the value
of any derivative transaction, only the marked to market value shall be taken
into account); 

(h)                                        any
counter-indemnity obligation in respect of a guarantee, indemnity, bond,
standby or documentary letter of credit or any other instrument issued by a
bank or financial institution; 

(i)                                            any amount
raised by the issue of redeemable shares; 

(j)                                           any amount
of any liability under an advance or deferred purchase agreement if one of the
primary reasons behind the entry into this agreement is to raise finance; and 

(k)                                        (without
double counting) the amount of any liability in respect of any guarantee or
indemnity for any of the items referred to in paragraphs (a) to (j) above. 

GAAP   means generally accepted accounting
principles in England and Wales.  

Guarantee   means the guarantee dated on or
about the date of this Agreement, provided by the Guarantor in favour of the
Lender in relation to all of the obligations of the Borrower under the Finance
Documents.  

Guarantor   means NBTY, Inc. a corporation
incorporated in the state of New York, with its address at 90 Orville Drive,
Bohemia, NY 11716, United States.  

Guarantor Credit Agreement   means the
US$125,000,000 second amended and restated credit agreement dated as of 24 July 2003
(as amended and restated on 19 December 2003 and further amended and
restated as of 1 August 2005 and further amended or restated from
time to time (which shall be deemed to include any documentation executed to
refinance the credit facilities made available to the Guarantor pursuant to
such agreement)) between, inter alia, the Guarantor as borrower, the Lender as
Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent and Bank of America, N.A. as
syndication agent.  

Holding Company   means, in relation to a
company or corporation, any other company or corporation in respect of which it
is a Subsidiary.  

Interest Period   means, in relation to a
Loan, each period determined in accordance with Clause 9 ( Interest Periods ) and, in relation to
an Unpaid Sum, each period determined in accordance with Clause 8.3 ( Default interest ).  

3  

Lender s Spot Rate of Exchange   means the
Lender s spot rate of exchange for the purchase of the relevant currency with
the Base Currency in the London foreign exchange market at or about 11:00 a.m.
on a particular day.  

LIBOR   means in relation to any Loan and
any Interest Period, the rate per annum at which the Lender was offering to
prime banks in the London Interbank Market deposits in dollars for such period
at or about 11.00 a.m. (London time) on the Quotation Date for such
Interest Period.  

Loan   means a loan made or to be made under
the Facility or the principal amount outstanding for the time being of that
loan.  

Mandatory Cost   means the percentage rate
per annum calculated by the Lender in accordance with Schedule 3 ( Mandatory Cost formulae ).  

Margin   means 1.25 per cent. per annum.  

Material Adverse Effect     means a material adverse effect on:  

(a)                                        the
business, operations, property, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects
of the Borrower; 

(b)                                        the
ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under the Finance
Documents; or 

(c)                                         the
validity or enforceability of the Finance Documents or the rights or remedies
of the Lender under the Finance Documents. 

Month   means a period starting on one day
in a calendar month and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the next
calendar month, except that:  

(a)                                        (subject
to paragraph (c) below) if the numerically corresponding day is not a Business
Day, that period shall end on the next Business Day in that calendar month in
which that period is to end if there is one, or if there is not, on the
immediately preceding Business Day; 

(b)                                        if there
is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month in which that period
is to end, that period shall end on the last Business Day in that calendar
month; and 

(c)                                         if an
Interest Period begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month, that
Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day in the calendar month in
which that Interest Period is to end. 

The above rules will
only apply to the last Month of any period.  

Optional Currency   means sterling.  

4  

Party   means a party to this Agreement.  

Quotation Day   means, in relation to any
period for which an interest rate is to be determined:  

(a)                                        if the
currency is domestic sterling the first day of that period; 

(b)                                        for
dollars two Business Days before the first day of that period. 

Repeating Representations   means each of
the representations set out in Clauses 16.1 ( Status )
to 16.6 ( Governing law and enforcement ),
Clause 16.9 ( No default ),
sub-clause 16.10.4 of Clause 16.10 ( No
misleading information ), Clause 16.11 ( Pari passu ranking ) and Clause 16.12 ( No proceedings pending or threatened ).  

Security   means a mortgage, charge, pledge,
lien or other security interest securing any obligation of any person or any
other agreement or arrangement having a similar effect.  

Selection Notice   means a notice
substantially in the form set out in Part II of Schedule 2 ( Requests ) given in accordance with Clause
9 ( Interest Periods ).  

Specified Time   means a time determined in
accordance with Schedule 4 ( Timetables ).  

Subsidiary   means a subsidiary within the
meaning of section 736 of the Companies Act 1985.  

Tax   means any tax, levy, impost, duty or
other charge or withholding of a similar nature (including any penalty or
interest payable in connection with any failure to pay or any delay in paying
any of the same).  

Taxes Act   means the Income and Corporation
Taxes Act 1988.  

Termination Date   means 29 December 2006.  

Unpaid Sum   means any sum due and payable
but unpaid by the Borrower under the Finance Documents.  

Utilisation   means a utilisation of the
Facility.  

Utilisation Date   means the date of a
Utilisation, being the date on which the relevant Loan is to be made.  

Utilisation Request   means a notice
substantially in the form set out in Part I of Schedule 2 ( Requests ).  

VAT   means value added tax as provided for
in the Value Added Tax Act 1994 and any other tax of a similar nature.  

1.2            Construction  

1.2.1                            Unless a contrary
indication appears any reference in this Agreement to: 

5  

(a)                       the   Borrower  ,
the   Lender   or any   Party   shall be construed so as to include
its successors in title, permitted assigns and permitted transferees; 

(b)                         assets  
includes present and future properties, revenues and rights of every
description; 

(c)                        a   Finance
Document   or any other agreement or instrument is a reference to
that Finance Document or other agreement or instrument as amended or novated; 

(d)                         indebtedness  
includes any obligation (whether incurred as principal or as surety) for the
payment or repayment of money, whether present or future, actual or contingent; 

(e)                        a   person  
includes any person, firm, company, corporation, government, state or agency of
a state or any association, trust or partnership (whether or not having
separate legal personality) of two or more of the foregoing; 

(f)                         a   regulation   includes any regulation, rule,
official directive, request or guideline (whether or not having the force of
law) of any governmental, intergovernmental or supranational body, agency,
department or regulatory, self-regulatory or other authority or organisation; 

(g)                        a provision of law is a reference to that
provision as amended or re-enacted; and 

(h)                       a time of day is a reference to London time. 

1.2.2                            Section, Clause and Schedule headings
are for ease of reference only. 

1.2.3                            Unless a contrary
indication appears, a term used in any other Finance Document or in any notice
given under or in connection with any Finance Document has the same meaning in
that Finance Document or notice as in this Agreement. 

1.2.4                            A Default (other than
an Event of Default) is   continuing  
if it has not been remedied or waived and an Event of Default is   continuing   if it has not been waived. 

1.3            Currency Symbols and Definitions  

$   and   dollars  
denote lawful currency of the United States of America.       and   sterling  
denotes lawful currency of the United Kingdom.  

1.4            Third party rights  

A person who is not a
Party has no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to
enforce or enjoy the benefit of any term of this Agreement.  

6  

2.               THE FACILITY  

Subject to the terms
of this Agreement, the Lender makes available to the Borrower a multicurrency
term loan facility in an aggregate amount of $18,000,000 to be fully drawn down
by the Borrower in a single Utilisation during the Availability Period.  

3.               PURPOSE  

3.1            Purpose  

The Borrower shall
apply all amounts borrowed by it under the Facility towards its general
corporate purposes.  

3.2            Monitoring  

The Lender is not bound
to monitor or verify the application of any amount borrowed pursuant to this
Agreement.  

4.               CONDITIONS OF UTILISATION  

4.1            Initial conditions precedent  

The Borrower may not
deliver a Utilisation Request unless the Lender has received all of the documents
and other evidence listed in Schedule 1 ( Conditions
precedent ) in form and substance satisfactory to the Lender. The
Lender shall notify the Borrower promptly upon being so satisfied.  

4.2            Further conditions precedent  

4.2.1                            The Lender will only
be obliged to make a Loan available to the Borrower if on the date of the
Utilisation Request and on the proposed Utilisation Date: 

(a)                       no Default is continuing or would result from
the proposed Loan; and 

(b)                       the Repeating Representations to be made by the
Borrower are true in all material respects. 

4.3            Maximum number of Loans  

4.3.1                            The Borrower may not
deliver a Utilisation Request if, as a result of the proposed Utilisation, more
than one (1) Loan would be outstanding. 

4.3.2                            The Borrower may not
request that a Loan be divided if, as a result of the proposed division, more
than five (5) Loans would be outstanding. 

5.               UTILISATION  

5.1            Delivery of a Utilisation Request  

The Borrower may utilise
the Facility by delivery to the Lender of a duly completed Utilisation Request
not later than the Specified Time.  

5.2            Completion of a Utilisation Request  

5.2.1                            Each Utilisation
Request is irrevocable and will not be regarded as having been duly completed
unless: 

(a)                       the proposed Utilisation Date is a Business Day
within the Availability Period; 

7  

(b)                       the currency and amount of the Utilisation
comply with Clause 5.3 ( Currency and amount );
and 

(c)                        the proposed Interest Period complies with
Clause 9 ( Interest Periods ). 

5.2.2                            Only one Loan may be
requested in each Utilisation Request. 

5.3            Currency and amount  

5.3.1                            The currency
specified in a Utilisation Request must be the Base Currency or the Optional
Currency. 

5.3.2                            The amount of the
proposed Loan must be a minimum of $1,000,000 (or its equivalent in the
Optional Currency) or if less, the Available Facility, in any event such that
its Base Currency Amount is less than or equal to the Available Facility. 

6.               REPAYMENT  

6.1            Repayment of Loans  

The
Borrower shall repay the Loans made to it in full on the Termination Date.  

7.               PREPAYMENT AND CANCELLATION  

7.1            Illegality  

If it becomes
unlawful in any applicable jurisdiction for the Lender to perform any of
its obligations as contemplated by this Agreement or to fund or maintain any
Loan:  

7.1.1                            the Lender shall
promptly notify the Borrower upon becoming aware of that event whereupon the
Facility will be immediately cancelled; and 

7.1.2                            the Borrower shall
repay the Loans made to the Borrower on the last day of the Interest Period for
each Loan occurring after the Lender has notified the Borrower or, if earlier,
the date specified by the Lender in the notice delivered to the Borrower. 

7.2            Change of control  

7.2.1                            If the Guarantor
ceases to control the Borrower directly or indirectly: 

(a)                       the Borrower shall promptly notify the Lender
upon becoming aware of that event; 

(b)                       the Lender shall not be obliged to fund a
Utilisation; and 

(c)                        the Lender may, by not less than 3 days notice
to the Borrower, cancel the Facility and declare all outstanding Loans,
together with accrued interest, and all other amounts accrued under the Finance
Documents immediately due and payable, whereupon the Facility will be cancelled
and all such outstanding amounts will become immediately due and payable. 

8  

7.2.2                            For the purpose of
sub-clause 7.2.1 above   control  
means: 

(a)                       the power (whether by way of ownership of
shares, proxy, contract, agency or otherwise) to: 

(i)                          cast, or control the
casting of, more than one-half of the maximum number of votes that might be
cast at a general meeting of the Borrower; or 

(ii)                       appoint or remove all, or the majority, of the
directors or other equivalent officers of the Borrower; or 

(iii)                    give directions with respect to the operating
and financial policies of the Borrower which the directors or other equivalent
officers of the Borrower are obliged to comply with; or 

(b)                       the holding of more than one-half of the issued
share capital of the Borrower (excluding any part of that issued share
capital that carries no right to participate beyond a specified amount in a
distribution of either profits or capital). 

7.3            Voluntary cancellation  

The Borrower may, if
it gives the Lender not less than 2 Business Days  (or such shorter period as
the Lender may agree) prior notice prior to the expiry of the Availability
Period, cancel the whole or any part (being a minimum amount of
$1,000,000) of the Available Facility.  

7.4            Voluntary prepayment of Loans  

7.4.1                            The Borrower may, if it
gives the Lender not less than 2 Business Days  (or such shorter period as the
Lender may agree) prior notice, prepay the whole or any part of any
Loan (but, if in part, being an amount that reduces the Base Currency Amount of
the Loan by a minimum amount of $1,000,000). 

7.4.2                            A Loan may only
be prepaid after the last day of the Availability Period (or, if earlier, the
day on which the Available Facility is zero). 

7.5            Restrictions  

7.5.1                            Any notice of
cancellation or prepayment given by any Party under this Clause 7 shall be
irrevocable and, unless a contrary indication appears in this Agreement, shall
specify the date or dates upon which the relevant cancellation or prepayment is
to be made and the amount of that cancellation or prepayment. 

7.5.2                            Any prepayment under
this Agreement shall be made together with accrued interest on the amount
prepaid and, subject to any Break Costs, without premium or penalty. 

7.5.3                            The Borrower may not
reborrow any part of the Facility which is prepaid. 

9  

7.5.4                            The Borrower shall
not repay or prepay all or any part of the Loans or cancel all or any part of
the Available Facility except at the times and in the manner expressly provided
for in this Agreement. 

7.5.5                            No amount of the
Facility cancelled under this Agreement may be subsequently reinstated. 

8.               INTEREST  

8.1            Calculation of interest  

The rate of interest
on each Loan for each Interest Period is the percentage rate per annum which is
the aggregate of the applicable:  

8.1.1                            Margin; 

8.1.2                            LIBOR; and 

8.1.3                            Mandatory Cost, if
any. 

8.2            Payment of interest  

On the last day of
each Interest Period the Borrower shall pay accrued interest on the Loan to
which that Interest Period relates (and, if the Interest Period is longer than
six Months, on the dates falling at six Monthly intervals after the first day
of the Interest Period).  

8.3            Default interest  

8.3.1                            If the Borrower fails
to pay any amount payable by it under a Finance Document on its due date,
interest shall accrue on the overdue amount from the due date up to the date of
actual payment (both before and after judgment) at a rate which, subject to
sub-clause 8.3.2 below, is one per cent higher than the rate which would have
been payable if the overdue amount had, during the period of non-payment,
constituted a Loan in the currency of the overdue amount for successive
Interest Periods, each of a duration selected by the Lender (acting reasonably).
Any interest accruing under this Clause 8.3 shall be immediately payable by the
Borrower on demand by the Lender. 

8.3.2                            If any overdue amount
consists of all or part of a Loan which became due on a day which was not
the last day of an Interest Period relating to that Loan: 

(a)                       the first Interest Period for that overdue amount
shall have a duration equal to the unexpired portion of the current Interest
Period relating to that Loan; and 

(b)                       the rate of interest applying to the overdue
amount during that first Interest Period shall be one per cent. higher than the
rate which would have applied if the overdue amount had not become due. 

8.3.3                            Default interest (if
unpaid) arising on an overdue amount will be compounded with the overdue amount
at the end of each Interest Period applicable to that overdue amount but will
remain immediately due and payable. 

10  

8.4            Notification of rates of interest  

The Lender shall
promptly notify the Borrower of the determination of a rate of interest under
this Agreement.  

9.               INTEREST PERIODS  

9.1            Selection of Interest Periods  

9.1.1                            The Borrower may select
an Interest Period for a Loan in the Utilisation Request for that Loan or (if
the Loan has already been borrowed) in a Selection Notice. 

9.1.2                            Each Selection Notice
for a Loan is irrevocable and must be delivered to the Lender by the Borrower
not later than the Specified Time. 

9.1.3                            If the Borrower fails
to deliver a Selection Notice to the Lender in accordance with sub-clause 9.1.2
above, the relevant Interest Period will, subject to Clause 9.2 ( Changes to Interest Periods ), be one
Month. 

9.1.4                            Subject to this
Clause 9, the Borrower may select an Interest Period of one, three or six
Months or any other period agreed between the Borrower and the Lender. 

9.1.5                            An Interest Period
for a Loan shall not extend beyond the Termination Date. 

9.1.6                            Each Interest Period
for a Loan shall start on the Utilisation Date or (if already made) on the last
day of its preceding Interest Period. 

9.2            Non-Business Days  

If an Interest Period
would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day, that Interest Period
will instead end on the next Business Day in that calendar month (if there is
one) or the preceding Business Day (if there is not).  

9.3            Consolidation and division of Loans  

9.3.1                            Subject to sub-clause
9.3.2 below, if two or more Interest Periods: 

(a)                       relate to Loans in the same currency; and 

(b)                       end on the same date; 

those Loans will,
unless the Borrower specifies to the contrary in the Selection Notice for the
next Interest Period, be consolidated into, and treated as, a single Loan on
the last day of the Interest Period.  

9.3.2                            Subject to Clause 4.3
( Maximum number of Loans ), if the
Borrower requests in a Selection Notice that a Loan be divided into two or more
Loans of the same currency, that Loan will, on the last day of its Interest
Period, be so divided. 

11  

10.            CHANGES TO THE CALCULATION OF INTEREST  

10.1          Market disruption  

10.1.1                     If a Market Disruption Event occurs in relation
to a Loan for any Interest Period, then the rate of interest on that Loan for
the Interest Period shall be the percentage rate per annum which is the sum of: 

(a)                       the Margin; 

(b)                       the rate notified to the Borrower by the Lender
as soon as practicable and in any event before interest is due to be paid in
respect of that Interest Period, to be that which expresses as a percentage
rate per annum the cost to the Lender of funding that Loan from whatever source
it may reasonably select; and 

(c)                        the Mandatory Cost, if any. 

10.1.2                     In this Agreement   Market Disruption Event   means before close of business in
London on the Quotation Day for the relevant Interest Period, the Lender
determines that the cost to it of obtaining matching deposits in the Relevant
Interbank Market would be in excess of LIBOR. 

10.2          Alternative basis of interest or funding  

10.2.1                     If a Market Disruption Event occurs and the
Lender or the Borrower so requires, the Lender and the Borrower shall enter
into negotiations (for a period of not more than thirty days) with a view to
agreeing a substitute basis for determining the rate of interest. 

10.2.2                     Any alternative basis agreed pursuant to
sub-clause 10.2.1 above shall be binding on all Parties. 

10.3          Break Costs  

The Borrower shall,
within three Business Days of demand by the Lender, pay to the Lender its Break
Costs attributable to all or any part of a Loan or Unpaid Sum being paid
by the Borrower on a day other than the last day of an Interest Period for that
Loan or Unpaid Sum.  

11.            TAX GROSS UP AND INDEMNITIES  

11.1          Definitions  

11.1.1                     In this Agreement: 

Tax Deduction   means a deduction or
withholding for or on account of Tax from a payment under a Finance Document.  

11.1.2                     Unless a contrary indication appears, in this
Clause 11 a reference to  determines  or  determined  means a determination
made in the absolute discretion of the person making the determination. 

12  

11.2          Tax gross-up  

11.2.1                     The Borrower shall make all payments to be made
by it without any Tax Deduction, unless a Tax Deduction is required by law. 

11.2.2                     The Borrower shall promptly upon becoming aware
that it must make a Tax Deduction (or that there is any change in the rate or
the basis of a Tax Deduction) notify the Lender accordingly. 

11.2.3                     If a Tax Deduction is required by law to be
made by the Borrower, the amount of the payment due from the Borrower shall be
increased to an amount which (after making any Tax Deduction) leaves an amount
equal to the payment which would have been due if no Tax Deduction had been
required. 

11.2.4                     If the Borrower is required to make a Tax
Deduction, the Borrower shall make that Tax Deduction and any payment required
in connection with that Tax Deduction within the time allowed and in the
minimum amount required by law. 

11.2.5                     Within thirty days of making either a Tax
Deduction or any payment required in connection with that Tax Deduction, the
Borrower shall deliver to the Lender evidence reasonably satisfactory to the
Lender that the Tax Deduction has been made or (as applicable) any appropriate
payment paid to the relevant taxing authority. 

11.3          Tax indemnity  

11.3.1                     The Borrower shall (within three Business Days
of demand by the Lender) pay to the Lender an amount equal to the loss,
liability or cost which the Lender determines will be or has been (directly or
indirectly) suffered for or on account of Tax by the Lender in respect of a
Finance Document. 

11.3.2                     Sub-clause 11.3.1 above shall not apply: 

(a)                       with respect to any Tax assessed on the Lender: 

(i)                          under the law of the
jurisdiction in which the Lender is incorporated or, if different, the
jurisdiction (or jurisdictions) in which the Lender is treated as resident for
tax purposes; or 

(ii)                       under the law of the jurisdiction in which the
Lender s Facility Office is located in respect of amounts received or
receivable in that jurisdiction, 

if that Tax is
imposed on or calculated by reference to the net income received or receivable
(but not any sum deemed to be received or receivable) by the Lender; or  

13  

(b)                       to the extent a loss, liability or cost is
compensated for by an increased payment under Clause 11.2 ( Tax  
gross-up ). 

11.3.3                     If the Lender makes or intends to make a claim
under sub-clause 11.3.1 above, the Lender shall promptly notify the Borrower of
the event which will give, or has given, rise to the claim. 

11.4          Stamp taxes  

The Borrower shall
pay and, within three Business Days of demand, indemnify the Lender against any
cost, loss or liability that the Lender incurs in relation to all stamp duty,
registration and other similar Taxes payable in respect of any Finance
Document.  

11.5          Value added tax  

11.5.1                     All amounts set out, or expressed to be payable
under a Finance Document by the Borrower to the Lender which (in whole or in
part) constitute the consideration for VAT purposes shall be deemed to be
exclusive of any VAT which is chargeable on such supply, and accordingly,
subject to sub-clause 11.5.2 below, if VAT is chargeable on any supply made by
the Lender to the Borrower under a Finance Document, the Borrower shall pay to
the Lender (in addition to and at the same time as paying the consideration) an
amount equal to the amount of the VAT (and the Lender shall promptly provide an
appropriate VAT invoice to the Borrower). 

11.5.2                     Where a Finance Document requires the Borrower
to reimburse the Lender for any costs or expenses, the Borrower shall also at
the same time pay and indemnify the Lender against all VAT incurred by the
Lender in respect of the costs or expenses to the extent that the Lender
reasonably determines that neither it nor any other member of any group of
which it is a member for VAT purposes is entitled to credit or repayment from
the relevant tax authority in respect of the VAT. 

12.            INCREASED COSTS  

12.1          Increased costs  

12.1.1                     Subject to Clause 12.3 ( Exceptions ) the Borrower shall, within
three Business Days of a demand by the Lender, pay for the account of the
Lender the amount of any Increased Costs incurred by the Lender or any of its
Affiliates as a result of (a) the introduction of or any change in (or in
the interpretation, administration or application of) any law or regulation or (b) compliance
with any law or regulation made after the date of this Agreement. 

12.1.2                     In this Agreement   Increased Costs   means: 

(a)                       a reduction in the rate of return from the
Facility or on the Lender s (or its Affiliate s) overall capital; 

(b)                       an additional or increased cost; or 

14  

(c)                        a reduction of any amount due and payable under
any Finance Document, 

which is incurred or
suffered by the Lender or any of its Affiliates to the extent that it is
attributable to the Lender having entered into a commitment or funding or
performing its obligations under any Finance Document.  

12.2          Increased cost claims  

If the Lender intends
to make a claim pursuant to Clause 12.1 ( Increased
costs ), the Lender shall promptly notify the Borrower.  

12.3          Exceptions  

12.3.1                     Clause 12.1 ( Increased
costs ) does not apply to the extent any Increased Cost is: 

(a)                       attributable to a Tax Deduction required by law
to be made by the Borrower; 

(b)                       compensated for by Clause 11.3 ( Tax indemnity )   (or would have been compensated for under Clause 11.3 ( Tax indemnity ) but was not so compensated
solely because any of the exclusions in sub-clause 11.3.2 of Clause 11.3 ( Tax indemnity ) applied); 

(c)                        compensated for by the payment of the Mandatory
Cost; or 

(d)                       attributable to the wilful breach by the Lender
or its Affiliates of any law or regulation. 

12.3.2                     In this Clause 12.3, a reference to a   Tax Deduction   has the same meaning given
to the term in Clause 11.1 ( Definitions ). 

13.            OTHER INDEMNITIES  

13.1          Currency indemnity  

13.1.1                     If any sum due from the Borrower under the Finance
Documents (a   Sum  ), or any order,
judgment or award given or made in relation to a Sum, has to be converted from
the currency (the   First Currency  )
in which that Sum is payable into another currency (the   Second Currency  ) for the purpose of: 

(a)                       making or filing a claim or proof against the
Borrower; 

(b)                       obtaining or enforcing an order, judgment or
award in relation to any litigation or arbitration proceedings, 

the Borrower shall as
an independent obligation, within three Business Days of demand, indemnify the
Lender against any cost, loss or liability arising out of or as a result of the
conversion including any discrepancy between (i) the rate of exchange used
to convert that Sum from the First Currency into the Second Currency and (ii) the
rate or rates of exchange available to that person at the time of its receipt
of that Sum.  

15  

13.1.2                     The Borrower waives any right it may have
in any jurisdiction to pay any amount under the Finance Documents in a currency
or currency unit other than that in which it is expressed to be payable. 

13.2          Other indemnities  

13.2.1                     The Borrower shall, within three Business Days
of demand, indemnify the Lender against any cost, loss or liability incurred by
the Lender as a result of: 

(a)                       the occurrence of any Event of Default; 

(b)                       a failure by the Borrower to pay any amount due
under a Finance Document on its due date; 

(c)                        funding, or making arrangements to fund, a Loan
requested by the Borrower in a Utilisation Request but not made by reason of
the operation of any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement (other
than by reason of default or negligence by the Lender); or 

(d)                       a Loan (or part of a Loan) not being
prepaid in accordance with a notice of prepayment given by the Borrower. 

13.2.2                     The Borrower shall promptly indemnify the
Lender against any cost, loss or liability incurred by the Lender (acting
reasonably) as a result of: 

(a)                       investigating any event which it reasonably
believes is a Default; or 

(b)                       acting or relying on any notice, request or
instruction which it reasonably believes to be genuine, correct and
appropriately authorised. 

14.            MITIGATION BY THE LENDER  

14.1          Mitigation  

14.1.1                     The Lender shall, in consultation with the
Borrower, take all reasonable steps to mitigate any circumstances which arise
and which would result in any amount becoming payable under or pursuant to, or
cancelled pursuant to, any of Clause 7.1 ( Illegality ),
Clause 11 ( Tax gross-up and indemnities ),
Clause 12 ( Increased costs )
or paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 ( Mandatory
Cost formulae ) including (but not limited to) transferring its
rights and obligations under the Finance Documents to another Affiliate or
Facility Office. 

14.1.2                     Sub-clause 14.1.1 above does not in any way limit
the obligations of the Borrower under the Finance Documents. 

14.2          Limitation of liability  

14.2.1                     The Borrower shall indemnify the Lender for all
costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the Lender as a result of steps taken
by it under Clause 14.1 ( Mitigation ). 

16  

14.2.2                     The Lender is not obliged to take any steps
under Clause 14.1 ( Mitigation )
if, in the opinion of the Lender (acting reasonably), to do so might be
prejudicial to it. 

15.            COSTS AND EXPENSES  

15.1          Transaction expenses  

The Borrower shall
promptly on demand pay the Lender the amount of all costs and expenses
(including legal fees) reasonably incurred by it in connection with the
negotiation, preparation, printing and execution of:  

15.1.1                     this Agreement and any other documents referred
to in this Agreement; and 

15.1.2                     any other Finance Documents executed after the
date of this Agreement. 

15.2          Amendment costs  

If:  

15.2.1                     the Borrower requests an amendment, waiver or
consent; or 

15.2.2                     an amendment is required pursuant to Clause
23.8 ( Change of currency ), 

the Borrower shall,
within three Business Days of demand, reimburse the Lender for the amount of
all costs and expenses (including legal fees) reasonably incurred by the Lender
in responding to, evaluating, negotiating or complying with that request or
requirement.  

15.3          Enforcement costs  

The Borrower shall,
within three Business Days of demand, pay to the Lender the amount of all costs
and expenses (including legal fees) incurred by the Lender in connection with
the enforcement of, or the preservation of any rights under, any Finance
Document.  

16.            REPRESENTATIONS  

The Borrower makes
the representations and warranties set out in this Clause 16 to the Lender on
the date of this Agreement.  

16.1          Status  

16.1.1                     It is a limited liability company, duly
incorporated and validly existing under the laws of England and Wales. 

16.1.2                     It has the power to own its assets and carry on
its business as it is being conducted. 

16.2          Binding obligations  

The obligations
expressed to be assumed by it in each Finance Document are legal, valid,
binding and enforceable obligations.  

17  

16.3          Non-conflict with other obligations  

The entry into and
performance by it of, and the transactions contemplated by, the Finance
Documents do not and will not conflict with:  

16.3.1                     any law or regulation applicable to it; 

16.3.2                     its constitutional documents; or 

16.3.3                     any agreement or instrument binding upon it or
any of its assets. 

16.4          Power and authority  

It has the power to
enter into, perform and deliver, and has taken all necessary action to
authorise its entry into, performance and delivery of, the Finance Documents to
which it is a party and the transactions contemplated by those Finance
Documents.  

16.5          Validity and admissibility in evidence  

All Authorisations
required or desirable:  

16.5.1                     to enable it lawfully to enter into, exercise
its rights and comply with its obligations in the Finance Documents to which it
is a party; and 

16.5.2                     to make the Finance Documents to which it is a
party admissible in evidence in England and Wales, 

have been obtained or
effected and are in full force and effect.  

16.6          Governing law and enforcement  

16.6.1                     The choice of English law as the governing law
of the Finance Documents will be recognised and enforced in England and Wales. 

16.6.2                     Any judgment obtained in England in relation to
a Finance Document will be recognised and enforced in England and Wales. 

16.7          Deduction of Tax  

It is not required to
make any deduction for or on account of Tax from any payment it may make
under any Finance Document.  

16.8          No filing or stamp taxes  

Under the laws of
England and Wales it is not necessary that the Finance Documents be filed,
recorded or enrolled with any court or other authority in that jurisdiction or
that any stamp, registration or similar tax be paid on or in relation to the
Finance Documents or the transactions contemplated by the Finance Documents.  

16.9          No default  

16.9.1                     No Event of Default is continuing or might
reasonably be expected to result from the making of any Utilisation. 

16.9.2                     No other event or circumstance is outstanding
which constitutes a default under any other agreement or instrument which is
binding on it or to which its assets are subject which might have a Material
Adverse Effect. 

18  

16.10        No misleading information  

16.10.1              Any factual information provided to the Lender
prior to the date of this Agreement by the Borrower was true and accurate in
all material respects as at the date it was provided or as at the date (if any)
at which it is stated. 

16.10.2              All financial projections provided to the
Lender prior to the date of this Agreement by the Borrower have been prepared
on the basis of recent historical information and on the basis of reasonable
assumptions. 

16.10.3              Nothing has occurred or been omitted from any
factual information and no information has been given or withheld that results
in the information provided to the Lender prior to the date of this Agreement
being untrue or misleading in any material respect. 

16.10.4              All written information (other than the
information provided pursuant to sub-clauses 16.10.1 to 16.10.3 above) supplied
by it is true, complete and accurate in all material respects as at the date it
was given and is not misleading in any respect. 

16.11        Pari passu ranking  

Its payment
obligations under the Finance Documents rank at least pari passu with the
claims of all its other unsecured and unsubordinated creditors, except for
obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to companies generally.  

16.12        No proceedings pending or threatened  

No litigation,
arbitration or administrative proceedings of or before any court, arbitral body
or agency which, if adversely determined, might reasonably be expected to have
a Material Adverse Effect have (to the best of its knowledge and belief) been
started or threatened against it.  

16.13        Repetition  

The Repeating
Representations are deemed to be made by the Borrower (by reference to the
facts and circumstances then existing) on the date of each Utilisation Request
and the first day of each Interest Period.  

17.            INFORMATION UNDERTAKINGS  

The undertakings in
this Clause 17 remain in force from the date of this Agreement for so long as
any amount is outstanding under the Finance Documents or any commitment is in
force.  

17.1          Information: miscellaneous  

The Borrower shall
supply to the Lender:  

17.1.1                     all documents dispatched by the Borrower to its
shareholders (or any class of them) or its creditors generally at the same
time as they are dispatched; 

17.1.2                     promptly upon becoming aware of them, the
details of any litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings which are
current, threatened or  

19  

pending
against it, and which might, if adversely determined, have a Material Adverse
Effect; and  

17.1.3                     promptly, such further information regarding
the financial condition, business and operations of the Borrower as the Lender may reasonably
request. 

17.2          Notification of default  

17.2.1                     The Borrower shall notify the Lender of any
Default (and the steps, if any, being taken to remedy it) promptly upon
becoming aware of its occurrence. 

17.2.2                     Promptly upon a request by the Lender, the
Borrower shall supply to the Lender a certificate signed by two of its
directors or senior officers on its behalf certifying that no Default is
continuing (or if a Default is continuing, specifying the Default and the steps,
if any, being taken to remedy it). 

17.3           Know your customer  checks  

If:  

17.3.1                     the introduction of or any change in (or in
the interpretation, administration or application of) any law or regulation
made after the date of this Agreement; 

17.3.2                     any change in the status of the Borrower or
the composition of the shareholders of the Borrower after the date of this
Agreement; or 

17.3.3                     a proposed assignment by the Lender of any of
its rights under this Agreement, 

obliges the Lender (or, in the case of sub-clause
17.3.3 above, any prospective new Lender) to comply with  know your customer 
or similar identification procedures in circumstances where the necessary
information is not already available to it, the Borrower shall promptly upon
the request of the Lender supply, or procure the supply of, such documentation
and other evidence as is reasonably requested by the Lender (for itself or, in
the case of the event described in sub-clause 17.3.3 above, on behalf of any
prospective new Lender) in order for the Lender or, in the case of the event
described in sub-clause 17.3.3 above, any prospective new Lender to carry out
and be satisfied it has complied with all necessary  know your customer  or
other similar checks under all applicable laws and regulations pursuant to the
transactions contemplated in the Finance Documents.  

18.            GENERAL UNDERTAKINGS  

The undertakings in
this Clause 18 remain in force from the date of this Agreement for so long as
any amount is outstanding under the Finance Documents or any commitment is in
force.  

18.1          Authorisations  

The Borrower shall
promptly:  

18.1.1                     obtain, comply with and do all that is
necessary to maintain in full force and effect; and 

20  

18.1.2                     supply certified copies to the Lender of, 

any Authorisation
required under any law or regulation of England and Wales to enable it to perform its
obligations under the Finance Documents and to ensure the legality, validity,
enforceability or admissibility in evidence in its jurisdiction of
incorporation of any Finance Document.  

18.2          Compliance with laws  

The Borrower shall
comply in all respects with all laws to which it may be subject, if
failure so to comply would materially impair its ability to perform its
obligations under the Finance Documents.  

18.3          Negative pledge  

18.3.1                     The Borrower shall not create or permit to
subsist any Security over any of its assets. 

18.3.2                     The Borrower shall not: 

(a)                       sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its assets on terms whereby they are or may be leased to or re-acquired by
the Borrower; 

(b)                       sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its receivables on recourse terms; 

(c)                        enter into any arrangement under which money or
the benefit of a bank or other account may be applied, set-off or made
subject to a combination of accounts; or 

(d)                       enter into any other preferential arrangement
having a similar effect, 

in circumstances
where the arrangement or transaction is entered into primarily as a method of
raising Financial Indebtedness or of financing the acquisition of an asset.  

18.4          Merger  

The Borrower shall
not enter into any amalgamation, demerger, merger or corporate reconstruction.  

18.5          Change of business  

The Borrower shall
procure that no substantial change is made to the general nature of the
business of the Borrower from that carried on at the date of this Agreement.  

18.6          Insurance  

The Borrower shall
maintain insurances on and in relation to its business and assets with
reputable underwriters or insurance companies against those risks and to the
extent as is usual for companies carrying on the same or substantially similar
business.  

18.7          Taxation  

The Borrower shall
duly and punctually pay and discharge all Taxes imposed upon it or its assets
within the time period allowed without incurring penalties (except to the   

21  

extent that (a) such
payment is being contested in good faith, (b) adequate reserves are being
maintained for those Taxes and (c) such payment can be lawfully withheld).  

19.            EVENTS OF DEFAULT  

Each of the events or
circumstances set out in Clause 19 is an Event of Default.  

19.1          Non-payment  

The
Borrower does not pay on the due date any amount payable pursuant to a Finance
Document at the place at and in the currency in which it is expressed to be
payable unless its failure to pay is caused by administrative or technical
error and payment is made within 2 Business Days of its due date.  

19.2          Other obligations  

19.2.1                     The Borrower does not comply with any provision
of the Finance Documents (other than those referred to in Clause 19.1 ( Non-payment ). 

19.2.2                     No Event of Default under sub-clause 19.2.1
above will occur if the failure to comply is capable of remedy and is remedied
within 10 Business Days of the Lender giving notice to the Borrower or the
Borrower becoming aware of the failure to comply. 

19.3          Misrepresentation  

Any representation or
statement made or deemed to be made by the Borrower in the Finance Documents or
any other document delivered by or on behalf of the Borrower under or in
connection with any Finance Document is or proves to have been incorrect or
misleading in any material respect when made or deemed to be made.  

19.4          Cross default  

19.4.1                     Any Financial Indebtedness of the Borrower is
not paid when due nor within any originally applicable grace period. 

19.4.2                     Any Financial Indebtedness of the Borrower is
declared to be or otherwise becomes due and payable prior to its specified
maturity as a result of an event of default (however described). 

19.4.3                     Any commitment for any Financial Indebtedness
of the Borrower is cancelled or suspended by a creditor of the Borrower as a
result of an event of default (however described). 

19.4.4                     Any creditor of the Borrower becomes entitled
to declare any Financial Indebtedness of the Borrower due and payable prior to
its specified maturity as a result of an event of default (however described). 

19.4.5                     No Event of Default will occur under this
Clause 19.4 if the aggregate amount of Financial Indebtedness or commitment for
Financial Indebtedness falling within sub-clauses 19.4.1 to 19.4.4 above is
less than $1,000,000 (or its equivalent in another currency or currencies). 

22  

19.5          Insolvency  

19.5.1                     The Borrower is unable or admits inability to
pay its debts as they fall due, suspends making payments on any of its debts
or, by reason of actual or anticipated financial difficulties, commences
negotiations with one or more of its creditors with a view to rescheduling any
of its indebtedness. 

19.5.2                     The value of the assets of the Borrower is less
than its liabilities (taking into account contingent and prospective
liabilities). 

19.5.3                     A moratorium is declared in respect of any
indebtedness of the Borrower. 

19.6          Insolvency proceedings  

Any corporate action,
legal proceedings or other procedure or step is taken in relation to:  

19.6.1                     the suspension of payments, a moratorium of any
indebtedness, winding-up, dissolution, administration or reorganisation (by way
of voluntary arrangement, scheme of arrangement or otherwise) of the Borrower
other than a solvent liquidation or reorganisation of the Borrower; 

19.6.2                     a composition, compromise, assignment or
arrangement with any creditor of the Borrower; 

19.6.3                     the appointment of a liquidator (other than in
respect of a solvent liquidation of the Borrower), receiver, administrative
receiver, administrator, compulsory manager or other similar officer in respect
of the Borrower or any of its assets; or 

19.6.4                     enforcement of any Security over any assets of
the Borrower, 

or any analogous
procedure or step is taken in any jurisdiction.  

19.7          Creditors  process  

Any expropriation,
attachment, sequestration, distress or execution affects any asset or assets of
the Borrower.  

19.8          Unlawfulness  

It is or becomes
unlawful for the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the
Finance Documents.  

19.9          Repudiation  

The Borrower
repudiates a Finance Document or evidences an intention to repudiate a Finance
Document.  

19.10        Guarantee Default  

19.10.1              It is or becomes unlawful for the Guarantor to
perform any of its obligations under the Guarantee. 

19.10.2              The Guarantor repudiates the Guarantee or
evidences an intention to repudiate the Guarantee. 

23  

19.10.3              The Guarantor breaches any term of the
Guarantee or fails to perform any of its obligations under the Guarantee. 

19.11        Guarantor Cross Default  

Any event of default
(howsoever described) occurs under the Guarantor Credit Agreement.  

19.12        Material adverse change  

Any event or
circumstance occurs which the Lender reasonably believes might have a Material
Adverse Effect.  

19.13        Acceleration  

On and at any time
after the occurrence of an Event of Default the Lender may, by notice to the Borrower:  

19.13.1              cancel the Facility whereupon the Facility
shall immediately be cancelled; 

19.13.2              declare that all or part of the Loans,
together with accrued interest, and all other amounts accrued or outstanding
under the Finance Documents be immediately due and payable, whereupon they
shall become immediately due and payable; and/or 

19.13.3              declare that all or part of the Loans be
payable on demand, whereupon they shall immediately become payable on demand by
the Lender. 

20.            CHANGES TO THE LENDER  

20.1          Assignments by the Lender  

The Lender may assign
any of its rights to another bank or financial institution or to a trust, fund
or other entity which is regularly engaged in or established for the purpose of
making, purchasing or investing in loans, securities or other financial assets
(the   New Lender  ).  

20.2          Conditions of assignment  

20.2.1                     An assignment will only be effective on: 

(a)                       receipt by the Borrower of written confirmation
from the New Lender (in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower
(acting reasonably)) that the New Lender will assume the same obligations to
the other Parties as it would have been under if it was the Lender; and 

(b)                       performance by the Lender of all  know your customer  or other similar
checks under all applicable laws and regulations in relation to such assignment
to a New Lender, the completion of which the Lender shall promptly notify to
the New Lender. 

20.2.2                     If: 

(a)                       the Lender assigns any of its rights under the
Finance Documents or changes its Facility Office; and 

24  

(b)                       as a result of circumstances existing at the
date the assignment or change occurs, the Borrower would be obliged to make a
payment to the New Lender (or the Lender acting through its new Facility
Office) under Clause 11 ( Tax gross-up and
indemnities ) or Clause 12 ( Increased
costs ), 

then the New Lender
(or the Lender acting through its new Facility Office) is only entitled to
receive payment under those Clauses to the same extent as the Lender (or the
Lender acting through its previous Facility Office) would have been if the
assignment or change had not occurred.  

20.3          Limitation of responsibility of the Lender  

20.3.1                     Unless expressly agreed to the contrary, the
Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility to a
New Lender for: 

(a)                       the legality, validity, effectiveness, adequacy
or enforceability of the Finance Documents or any other documents; 

(b)                       the financial condition of the Borrower; 

(c)                        the performance and observance by the Borrower
of its obligations under the Finance Documents or any other documents; or 

(d)                       the accuracy of any statements (whether written
or oral) made in or in connection with any Finance Document or any other
document, 

and any representations
or warranties implied by law are excluded.  

20.3.2                     Each New Lender confirms to the Lender that it: 

(a)                       has made (and shall continue to make) its own
independent investigation and assessment of the financial condition and affairs
of the Borrower and its related entities in connection with this Agreement and
has not relied exclusively on any information provided to it by the Lender in
connection with any Finance Document; and 

(b)                       will continue to make its own independent
appraisal of the creditworthiness of the Borrower and its related entities
whilst any amount is or may be outstanding under the Finance Documents or
any commitment is in force. 

20.3.3                     Nothing in any Finance Document obliges the
Lender to: 

(a)                       accept a re-assignment from a New Lender of any
of the rights assigned under this Clause 20; or 

(b)                       support any losses directly or indirectly
incurred by the New Lender by reason of the non-performance by the Borrower of
its obligations under the Finance Documents or otherwise. 

25  

20.4          Disclosure of information  

The Lender may disclose
to any of its Affiliates and any other person:  

20.4.1                     to (or through) whom the Lender assigns (or may potentially
assign) all or any of its rights under this Agreement; 

20.4.2                     with (or through) whom the Lender enters into
(or may potentially enter into) any sub-participation in relation to, or
any other transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to, this
Agreement or the Borrower; or 

20.4.3                     to whom, and to the extent that, information is
required to be disclosed by any applicable law or regulation, 

any information about
the Borrower and the Finance Documents as the Lender shall consider
appropriate.  

21.            CHANGES TO THE BORROWER  

The Borrower may not
assign any of its rights or transfer any of its rights or obligations under the
Finance Documents.  

22.            CONDUCT OF BUSINESS BY THE LENDER  

22.1          No provision of this Agreement will:  

22.1.1                     interfere with the right of the Lender to
arrange its affairs (tax or otherwise) in whatever manner it thinks fit; 

22.1.2                     oblige the Lender to investigate or claim any
credit, relief, remission or repayment available to it or the extent, order and
manner of any claim; or 

22.1.3                     oblige the Lender to disclose any information
relating to its affairs (tax or otherwise) or any computations in respect of
Tax. 

23.            PAYMENT MECHANICS  

23.1          Payments to the Lender  

23.1.1                     On each date on which the Borrower is required
to make a payment under a Finance Document, the Borrower shall make the same
available to the Lender (unless a contrary indication appears in a Finance
Document) for value on the due date at the time and in such funds specified by
the Lender as being customary at the time for settlement of transactions in the
relevant currency in the place of payment. 

23.1.2                     Payment shall be made to the relevant accounts
below (or such other account as the Lender may specify for such purposes): 

Payments in Dollars    

Pay
to (Name of Bank):  J P Morgan Chase New
York  

SWIFT
Address:  CHASUS33XXX  

26  

Account
No:  0010962009  

Account
Name: J P Morgan Chase Bank, London  

SWIFT:  CHASGB2L  

Ref:  European Loans  Good  N  Natural Limited   

Payments
in Sterling    

Pay
to (Name of Bank): J P Morgan Chase Bank, London (CHASGB2L)  

Address:                                                    Direct
Sort Code 60-92-42 

Reference:                                        Attn
LDNLOANS/ Good  N  Natural Limited 

23.2          Payments to the Borrower  

23.2.1                     On each date on which this Agreement requires
an amount to be paid by the Lender, the Lender shall make the same available to
the Borrower in such funds and to such account with such bank as the Borrower
shall specify from time to time. 

23.2.2                     A payment will be deemed to have been made by
the Lender on the date on which it was required to be made under this Agreement
if the Lender has, on or before that date, taken steps to make that payment in
accordance with the regulations or operating procedures of the clearing system
used by the Lender in order to make the payment. 

23.3          Distributions to the Borrower  

The Lender may (with
the consent of the Borrower or in accordance with Clause 24 ( Set-off )) apply any amount received by it
for the Borrower in or towards payment (on the date and in the currency and
funds of receipt) of any amount due from the Borrower under the Finance
Documents or in or towards purchase of any amount of any currency to be so
applied.  

23.4          Partial payments  

23.4.1                     If the Lender receives a payment that is
insufficient to discharge all the amounts then due and payable by the Borrower
under the Finance Documents, the Lender shall apply that payment towards the
obligations of the Borrower under the Finance Documents in the following order: 

(a)           first , in or towards payment pro rata of any unpaid fees,
costs and expenses of the Lender under the Finance Documents; 

(b)           secondly , in or towards payment pro rata of any accrued
interest or commission due but unpaid under this Agreement; 

(c)           thirdly , in or towards payment pro rata of any principal due
but unpaid under this Agreement; and 

27  

(d)           fourthly , in or towards payment pro rata of any other sum due
but unpaid under the Finance Documents. 

23.4.2                     The Lender may vary the order set out in
paragraphs (b) to (d) of sub-clause 23.4.1 above. 

23.4.3                     Sub-clauses 23.4.1 and 23.4.2 above will
override any appropriation made by the Borrower. 

23.5          No set-off by the Borrower  

All payments to be
made by the Borrower under the Finance Documents shall be calculated and be
made without (and free and clear of any deduction for) set-off or counterclaim.  

23.6          Business Days  

23.6.1                     Any payment which is due to be made on a day
that is not a Business Day shall be made on the next Business Day in the same
calendar month (if there is one) or the preceding Business Day (if there is
not). 

23.6.2                     During any extension of the due date for
payment of any principal or Unpaid Sum under this Agreement interest is payable
on the principal or Unpaid Sum at the rate payable on the original due date. 

23.7          Currency of account  

23.7.1                     Subject to sub-clauses 23.7.2 to 23.7.5 below,
the Base Currency is the currency of account and payment for any sum due from
the Borrower under any Finance Document. 

23.7.2                     A repayment of a Loan or Unpaid Sum or a part of
a Loan or Unpaid Sum shall be made in the currency in which that Loan or Unpaid
Sum is denominated on its due date. 

23.7.3                     Each payment of interest shall be made in the
currency in which the sum in respect of which the interest is payable was
denominated when that interest accrued. 

23.7.4                     Each payment in respect of costs, expenses or
Taxes shall be made in the currency in which the costs, expenses or Taxes are
incurred. 

23.7.5                     Any amount expressed to be payable in a
currency other than the Base Currency shall be paid in that other currency. 

23.8          Change of currency  

23.8.1                     Unless otherwise prohibited by law, if more
than one currency or currency unit are at the same time recognised by the
central bank of any country as the lawful currency of that country, then: 

(a)                       any reference in the Finance Documents to, and
any obligations arising under the Finance Documents in, the currency of that
country shall be  

28  

translated
into, or paid in, the currency or currency unit of that country designated by
the Lender (after consultation with the Borrower); and  

(b)                       any translation from one currency or currency
unit to another shall be at the official rate of exchange recognised by the
central bank for the conversion of that currency or currency unit into the
other, rounded up or down by the Lender (acting reasonably). 

23.8.2                     If a change in any currency of a country
occurs, this Agreement will, to the extent the Lender (acting reasonably and
after consultation with the Borrower) specifies to be necessary, be amended to
comply with any generally accepted conventions and market practice in the
London Interbank Market and otherwise to reflect the change in currency. 

24.                             SET-OFF  

The Lender may set
off any matured obligation due from the Borrower under the Finance Documents
(to the extent beneficially owned by the Lender) against any matured obligation
owed by the Lender to the Borrower, regardless of the place of payment, booking
branch or currency of either obligation. If the obligations are in different
currencies, the Lender may convert either obligation at a market rate of
exchange in its usual course of business for the purpose of the set-off.  

25.            NOTICES  

25.1          Communications in writing  

Any communication to
be made under or in connection with the Finance Documents shall be made in
writing and, unless otherwise stated, may be made by fax or letter.  

25.2          Addresses  

The address and fax
number (and the department or officer, if any, for whose attention the
communication is to be made) of each Party for any communication or document to
be made or delivered under or in connection with the Finance Documents is:  

25.2.1                     in the case of the Borrower, that identified
with its name below; and 

25.2.2                     in the case of the Lender, that identified with
its name below other than in relation to operational matters (such as
Utilisation Requests) which should be sent to: 

European Loan Operations 
4 th  Floor  Prestige
Knowledge Park 
Near Marathalli Junction, Outer Ring Road 
Kadabeesanahalli 
Vathur Hobli 
Bangalore 
560087 

For the attention of:  

Bipin Tiwari/Sharath S
Shetty/Karthikesh Ema/Veena B Gowda  

29  

Fax:  

+ 44 (0)20 7492 3297  

  + 44 (0)20 7492 3298  

or
any substitute address, fax number or department or officer as the Party may notify
to the Lender (or the Lender may notify to the other Parties, if a change
is made by the Lender) by not less than five Business Days  notice.  

25.3          Delivery  

25.3.1                     Any communication or document made or delivered
by one person to another under or in connection with the Finance Documents will
only be effective: 

(a)                       if by way of fax, when received in legible
form; or 

(b)                       if by way of letter, when it has been left at
the relevant address or five Business Days after being deposited in the post
postage prepaid in an envelope addressed to it at that address, 

and, if a particular
department or officer is specified as part of its address details provided
under Clause 25.2 ( Addresses ), if
addressed to that department or officer.  

25.3.2                     Any communication or document to be made or
delivered to the Lender will be effective only when actually received by the
Lender and then only if it is expressly marked for the attention of the
department or officer identified with the Lender s signature below (or any
substitute department or officer as the Lender shall specify for this purpose). 

25.4          English language  

25.4.1                     Any notice given under or in connection with
any Finance Document must be in English. 

25.4.2                     All other documents provided under or in connection
with any Finance Document must be: 

(a)                       in English; or 

(b)                       if not in English, and if so required by the
Lender, accompanied by a certified English translation and, in this case, the
English translation will prevail unless the document is a constitutional,
statutory or other official document. 

26.            CALCULATIONS AND CERTIFICATES  

26.1          Accounts  

In any litigation or
arbitration proceedings arising out of or in connection with a Finance
Document, the entries made in the accounts maintained by the Lender are  prima facie  evidence of the matters to
which they relate.  

30  

26.2          Certificates and Determinations  

Any certification or
determination by the Lender of a rate or amount under any Finance Document is,
in the absence of manifest error, conclusive evidence of the matters to which
it relates.  

26.3          Day count convention  

Any interest,
commission or fee accruing under a Finance Document will accrue from day to day
and is calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed and a year
of 360 days for any amounts in dollars and 365 days for any amounts in
sterling.  

27.            PARTIAL INVALIDITY  

If, at any time, any
provision of the Finance Documents is or becomes illegal, invalid or
unenforceable in any respect under any law of any jurisdiction, neither the
legality, validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions nor the
legality, validity or enforceability of such provision under the law of any
other jurisdiction will in any way be affected or impaired.  

28.            REMEDIES AND WAIVERS  

No failure to
exercise, nor any delay in exercising, on the part of the Lender, any
right or remedy under the Finance Documents shall operate as a waiver, nor
shall any single or partial exercise of any right or remedy prevent any further
or other exercise or the exercise of any other right or remedy. The rights and
remedies provided in this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any
rights or remedies provided by law.  

29.            AMENDMENTS AND WAIVERS  

Any term of the
Finance Documents may be amended or waived only with the consent of the
Lender and the Borrower and any such amendment or waiver will be binding on all
Parties.  

30.            COUNTERPARTS  

Each Finance Document
may be executed in any number of counterparts, and this has the same
effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of the
Finance Document.  

31.            GOVERNING LAW  

This Agreement is
governed by English law.  

31  

32.            ENFORCEMENT  

32.1          Jurisdiction  

32.1.1                     The courts of England have exclusive
jurisdiction to settle any dispute arising out of or in connection with this
Agreement (including a dispute regarding the existence, validity or termination
of this Agreement) (a   Dispute  ). 

32.1.2                     The Parties agree that the courts of England
are the most appropriate and convenient courts to settle Disputes and
accordingly no Party will argue to the contrary. 

32.1.3                     This Clause 32.1 is for the benefit of the
Lender only. As a result, the Lender shall not be prevented from taking
proceedings relating to a Dispute in any other courts with jurisdiction. To the
extent allowed by law, the Lender may take concurrent proceedings in any
number of jurisdictions. 

This
Agreement has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of this
Agreement.   

32  

SCHEDULE 1   

   CONDITIONS PRECEDENT   

(a)                                        A copy of
the constitutional documents of the Borrower. 

(b)                                        A copy of
a resolution of the board of directors of the Borrower: 

(i)                           approving
the terms of, and the transactions contemplated by, the Finance Documents and
resolving that it execute the Finance Documents; 

(ii)                        authorising
a specified person or persons to execute the Finance Documents on its behalf;
and 

(iii)                     authorising
a specified person or persons, on its behalf, to sign and/or despatch all
documents and notices (including, if relevant, any Utilisation Request and
Selection Notice) to be signed and/or despatched by it under or in connection
with the Finance Documents. 

(c)                                         A specimen
of the signature of each person authorised by the resolution referred to in
paragraph (b) above. 

(d)                                        A
certificate of the Borrower (signed by a director or the company secretary)
confirming that borrowing the Facility would not cause any borrowing or similar
limit binding on the Borrower to be exceeded. 

(e)                                         A
certificate of the Borrower (signed by a director or the company secretary)
certifying that each copy document relating to it specified in paragraphs (a) to
(c) (inclusive)in this Schedule 1 is correct, complete and in full
force and effect as at a date no earlier than the date of this Agreement. 

(f)                                          Evidence
that the costs and expenses (if any) then due from the Borrower pursuant to
Clause 15 ( Costs and expenses )
have been paid or will be paid by the first Utilisation Date. 

(g)                                         The
Guarantee duly executed by the Guarantor and in form and substance
satisfactory to the Lender. 

(h)                                        A copy of
a resolution of the board of directors of the Guarantor approving the terms of,
and the transactions contemplated by, the Guarantee Documents and resolving
that it execute the Guarantee. 

(i)                                            An up to
date incumbency certificate of the Guarantor setting out the names and specimen
signatures of each person authorised to execute the Guarantee on its behalf. 

33  

SCHEDULE 2   

   REQUESTS   

Part A   

   Utilisation Request   

From:                  Good  N 
Natural Limited 

To:                                         JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., London Branch 

European Loan Operations 
4 th  Floor  Prestige
Knowledge Park 
Near Marathalli Junction, Outer Ring Road 
Kadabeesanahalli 
Vathur Hobli 
Bangalore 
560087 

Contact names, Telephone, Email  : 

Bipin Tiwari 
Tel:  91-80-41760739 
Email: bipin.s.tiwari@jpmchase.com  

Sharath S Shetty 
Tel:  91-80-41760744 
Emai:  sharath.s.shetty@jpmchase.com  

Karthikesh Ema            
Tel:  91-80-41760743 
Email:  karthikesh.b.ema@jpmchase.com 

Veena B Gowda 
Tel:  91-80-41760745 
Email:  veena.b.gowda@jpmchase.com  

Fax Numbers  : 

44 (0)20 7492 3297  

  44 (0)20 7492 3298  

Dated:  

Dear Sirs  

Good  N  Natural Limited   $18,000,000 Facility Agreement   

dated [     ] 2006 (the
 Agreement )   

1.                                   We refer
to the Agreement. This is a Utilisation Request. Terms defined in the Agreement
have the same meaning in this Utilisation Request unless given a different
meaning in this Utilisation Request. 

34  

2.                                   We wish to
borrow a Loan on the following terms: 

Proposed Utilisation Date:  

[     ]
  (or, if that is not a Business Day, the next Business Day)  

Currency of Loan:  

Dollars/Sterling  

Amount:  

[           ]
  or, if less, the Available Facility  

Interest Period:  

[                 ]  

3.                                   We confirm
that each condition specified in Clause 4.2 ( Further
conditions precedent ) is satisfied on the date of this Utilisation
Request. 

4.                                   The
proceeds of this Loan should be credited to [ account ]. 

5.                                   This
Utilisation Request is irrevocable. 

Yours
  faithfully  

authorised
  signatory for  

Good
   N  Natural Limited  

35  

Part B 
Selection Notice   

From:                           Good  N 
Natural Limited 

To:                                         JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., London Branch 

European Loan Operations 
4 th  Floor  Prestige
Knowledge Park 
Near Marathalli Junction, Outer Ring Road 
Kadabeesanahalli 
Vathur Hobli 
Bangalore 
560087 

Contact names, Telephone, Email  : 

Bipin Tiwari 
Tel:  91-80-41760739 
Email: bipin.s.tiwari@jpmchase.com  

Sharath S Shetty 
Tel:  91-80-41760744 
Emai:  sharath.s.shetty@jpmchase.com  

Karthikesh Ema            
Tel:  91-80-41760743 
Email:  karthikesh.b.ema@jpmchase.com 

Veena B Gowda 
Tel:  91-80-41760745 
Email:  veena.b.gowda@jpmchase.com  

Fax Numbers  : 

44 (0)20 7492 3297  

  44 (0)20 7492 3298  

Dated:                       [           ] 

Dear Sirs  

Good  N  Natural Limited   US$18,000,000 Facility Agreement  
dated [           ] 2006 (the  Agreement )   

1.                                   We refer
to the Agreement. This is a Selection Notice. Terms defined in the Agreement
have the same meaning in this Selection Notice unless given a different meaning
in this Selection Notice. 

2.                                   We refer
to the following Loan in [Dollars/Sterling] with an Interest Period ending on [ date ]. 

36  

3.                                   [We
request that the above Loan be divided into
[             ]
Loans in the same currency and with the following Interest Periods:     [        
]] 

or   

[We request that the
next Interest Period for the above Loan[s] is [      ]].  

4.                                   This
Selection Notice is irrevocable. 

Yours
  faithfully  

authorised
  signatory for  

Good
   N  Natural Limited  

37  

SCHEDULE 3    
MANDATORY COST FORMULAE  

1.                                   The
Mandatory Cost is an addition to the interest rate in relation to the cost of
compliance with (a) the requirements of the Bank of England and/or the
Financial Services Authority (or, in either case, any other authority which
replaces all or any of its functions) or (b) the requirements of the
European Central Bank. 

2.                                   On the
first day of each Interest Period (or as soon as possible thereafter) the
Lender shall calculate a rate (the   Additional
Cost Rate  ) in accordance with the paragraphs set out below
(expressed as a percentage rate per annum). 

3.                                   The
Additional Cost Rate for the Lender if lending from a Facility Office in a
Participating Member State will be the percentage determined by the Lender as
the cost of complying with the minimum reserve requirements of the European
Central Bank. 

4.                                   The
Additional Cost Rate for the Lender if lending from a Facility Office in the
United Kingdom will be calculated by the Lender as follows: 

(a)                                        in
relation to a domestic sterling Loan: 

(b)                                        in
relation to a Loan in dollars: 

Where:  

A                                               is the
percentage of Eligible Liabilities (assuming these to be in excess of any
stated minimum) which the Lender is from time to time required to maintain as
an interest free cash ratio deposit with the Bank of England to comply with
cash ratio requirements. 

B                                               is the
percentage rate of interest (excluding the Margin and the Mandatory Cost)
payable for the relevant Interest Period on the Loan. 

C                                               is the
percentage (if any) of Eligible Liabilities which the Lender is required from
time to time to maintain as interest bearing Special Deposits with the Bank of
England. 

D                                               is the
percentage rate per annum payable by the Bank of England to the Lender on
interest bearing Special Deposits. 

E                                                is the
rate of charge payable by the Lender to the Financial Services Authority
pursuant to the Fees Rules (calculated for this purpose by the Lender as
being  

38  

the average of the
Fee Tariffs applicable to the Lender) and expressed in pounds per  1,000,000 of
the Tariff Base of the Lender.  

5.                                   For the
purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)                                          Eligible Liabilities   and   Special Deposits   have the meanings given
to them from time to time under or pursuant to the Bank of England Act 1998 or
(as may be appropriate) by the Bank of England; 

(b)                                          Fees Rules   means the rules on
periodic fees contained in the FSA Supervision Manual or such other law or
regulation as may be in force from time to time in respect of the payment
of fees for the acceptance of deposits; 

(c)                                           Fee Tariffs   means the fee tariffs
specified in the Fees Rules under the activity group A.1 Deposit acceptors
(ignoring any minimum fee or zero rated fee required pursuant to the Fees Rules but
taking into account any applicable discount rate); and 

(d)                                          Tariff Base   has the meaning given to it
in, and will be calculated in accordance with, the Fees Rules. 

6.                                   In
application of the above formulae, A, B, C and D will be included in the
formulae as percentages (i.e. 5 per cent. will be included in the formula as 5
and not as 0.05). A negative result obtained by subtracting D from B shall be
taken as zero. The resulting figures shall be rounded to four decimal places. 

7.                                   The Lender
shall have no liability to any person if such determination results in an
Additional Cost Rate which over or under compensates the Lender. 

8.                                   Any
determination by the Lender pursuant to this Schedule in relation to a
formula, the Mandatory Cost, an Additional Cost Rate or any amount payable to
the Lender shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive and binding
on all Parties. 

9.                                   The Lender
may from time to time, after consultation with the Borrower determine and
notify to all Parties any amendments which are required to be made to this Schedule in
order to comply with any change in law, regulation or any requirements from
time to time imposed by the Bank of England, the Financial Services Authority
or the European Central Bank (or, in any case, any other authority which
replaces all or any of its functions) and any such determination shall, in the
absence of manifest error, be conclusive and binding on all Parties. 

39  

SCHEDULE 4    
TIMETABLES  

Loans in  
  dollars   

Loans in  
  domestic sterling   

Delivery of a duly completed Utilisation Request (Clause 5.1 ( Delivery of a Utilisation Request ) or a
  Selection Notice (Clause 9.1 ( Selection of
  Interest Periods ))  

U-3 
   
  9.30am  

U-1 
   
  9.30am  

Lender determines the Base Currency equivalent (for commitment
  utilization purposes) where an amount of a Loan in the Optional Currency has
  been requested i.e. on delivery of a Utilisation request)  

U-1 
   
  9.30am  

Lender determines amount of the Loan in Optional Currency converted
  into from the Base Currency (i.e. on delivery of a Utilisation request)  

U-1 
   
  9.30am  

LIBOR is fixed  

Quotation Day as of 11:00 a.m.
  London time  

Quotation Day as of 11:00 a.m.  

U  = date of
utilisation  

U - X  = X Business
Days prior to date of utilisation  

40  

SIGNATURES   

THE BORROWER   

GOOD  N  NATURAL LIMITED   

By:  

/s/ Barry Vickers  

Name:  

Barry Vickers  

Title:  

Chief Executive Officer  

Address:  

Samuel Ryder House  

Townsend Drive  

Attleborough Fields  

Nuneaton  

Warwickshire  

CV11 6XW  

Fax:  

02476-320034  

Attention:  

Mr. R. Craddock  

THE
  LENDER   

JPMORGAN
  CHASE BANK, N.A., LONDON BRANCH   

By:  

/s/ Alastair Stevenson  

Name:  

Alastair Stevenson  

Title:  

Managing Director  

Address:  

125 London Wall  

London EC2Y 5AJ  

Fax:  

+44 20 7777 4781  

Attention:  

Alastair Stevenson  

41  

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.15>
 5
 a2174922zex-10_15.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.15

Exhibit 10.15   

EXECUTION VERSION   

STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT   

by and between   

NBTY, INC.   

and   

ZILA, INC.   

with respects to all of the
outstanding capital stock   

of   

ZILA NUTRACEUTICALS, INC.   

August 13, 2006   

TABLE OF
CONTENTS   

EXHIBIT A  

DEFINITIONS  

EXHIBIT B  

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
  OF SELLER  

EXHIBIT C  

REPRESENTATIONS AND
  WARRANTIES OF BUYER  

EXHIBIT D  

PROCEDURE FOR
  INDEMNIFICATION  

EXHIBIT E  

FORM OF SELLER OPINION
  LETTER  

EXHIBIT F  

FORM OF BUYER OPINION
  LETTER  

EXHIBIT G  

FORM OF NON-COMPETITION
  AGREEMENT  

ii  

STOCK
PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this   Agreement  )   dated as of August 13, 2006 (the   Effective
Date  ) ,  by and
between the following parties:  

NBTY, Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Buyer     and 

Zila, Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Seller  ). 

For purposes of this Agreement, certain capitalized
terms have the meanings ascribed to them in  Exhibit A . Other terms are
defined in the body of this Agreement.  

OVERVIEW   

WHEREAS,
Seller owns all the issued and outstanding shares of common stock (the   Shares  )   of Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc., an
Arizona corporation (the   Company  ),   constituting all issued and outstanding shares of capital
stock of the Company; and  

WHEREAS,
the Company engages in the business of manufacturing and marketing nutritional
supplements and cosmetics (collectively, the   Products  ) ,  including, without limitation,
Ester-C and Ester-E forms of Products (the   Company Business     and  

WHEREAS,
Ester-C and Ester-E are trademarks owned by the Company in certain
jurisdictions and such Ester-C and Ester-E forms of Products are subject to
patents owned or exclusively licensed by the Company in certain jurisdictions
and are manufactured by the Company in accordance with applicable patents
and/or trade secrets and distributed and sold pursuant to trademarks owned or
exclusively licensed by the Company; and  

WHEREAS,
Seller conducted an extensive auction process for the Company Business, and
Buyer was the highest bidder in such process; and  

WHEREAS,
by this Agreement Seller desires to sell to the Buyer, and Buyer desires to
purchase from Seller, the Shares in return for cash, in each case upon all the
terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.  

NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and mutual agreements and covenants
hereinafter set forth, and for other good and valuable consideration, the
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be
legally bound, Seller and Buyer hereby agree as follows:  

ARTICLE 1 
THE TRANSACTION   

1.1            Purchase and Sale of Shares .
At the Closing, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement,
Seller agrees to sell to Buyer, and Buyer agrees to purchase from Seller, all
of the right, title and interest of Seller in and to the Shares.  

1.2            Purchase Price
Closing Adjustment .  

(a)           The aggregate
purchase price for the Shares and agreement of the Seller not to compete with
Buyer shall consist of (i) Thirty Seven Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars
($37,500,000), subject to a working capital adjustment as described in  Section
1.2(e)  below (the   Closing Date Purchase Price  )   and (ii) up to Three Million
Dollars ($3,000,000) payable in accordance with  Section 1.3  (the   Contingent
Purchase Price,     and
together with the Closing Date Purchase Price, the   Purchase Price  ).  

(b)           Within ninety (90)
days after the Closing Date, the Company under the direction of the Buyer shall
prepare a balance sheet of the Company as at the close of business on the
Closing Date (the   Closing Date Balance Sheet  ). The
Closing Date Balance Sheet shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on
a basis consistent with the Financial Statements.  

(c)           Within ninety (90)
days after the Closing Date, Buyer shall deliver to the Seller the Closing Date
Balance Sheet, as well as a statement (the   Closing Date Working Capital Statement  ),   setting forth the Closing Working
Capital and including a detailed computation thereof. The Closing Date Working
Capital Statement shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a basis
consistent with the Financial Statements. At the request of Seller, Buyer shall
deliver to Seller with its delivery of the Closing Date Working Capital
Statement copies of all working papers in Buyer s possession relevant to Buyer s
determination of Closing Working Capital.  

(d)           Unless the Seller,
within thirty (30) days after receipt of the Closing Date Balance Sheet and
Closing Date Working Capital Statement, gives the Buyer a written notice
objecting thereto and specifying, in detail, the basis for such objection and
the amount in dispute (  Notice of Objection  ),   such Closing Date Balance Sheet and
Closing Date Working Capital Statement shall be considered accepted and binding
upon the Buyer and the Seller. If, within thirty (30) days after the receipt of
the Closing Date Balance Sheet and Closing Date Working Capital Statement, the
Seller gives a Notice of Objection to the Buyer and all matters set forth
therein are not resolved within twenty-one (21) days after the Buyer s actual
receipt of such notice, the disputed items shall be submitted to arbitration
under the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association
(the   AAA
Rules  ). The arbitration shall be held in Dallas, Texas
before a single arbitrator, who shall be a certified public accountant,
selected in accordance with the AAA Rules (the arbitrator being hereinafter
referred to as the   Arbitrating Accountant  ).   The Arbitrating Accountant shall
afford each of the Buyer and its representatives and the Seller and its
representatives up to 30 days in the aggregate to present their positions as to
the disputed items. The Arbitrating Accountant shall resolve all disputed items
in a written determination to be delivered within 15 days following the end of
the submission period. Such resolution shall be final and binding upon the
parties and shall be reflected in any necessary revisions to the Closing Date
Balance Sheet. The fees, costs and expenses of the Arbitrating Accountant shall
be paid by the Buyer and the Seller in inverse proportion to the results of the
prevailing party on the disputed items resolved by the Arbitrating Accountant.
Such proportional allocations  

2  

shall
be determined by the Arbitrating Accountant at the time its determination is
rendered on the disputed items.  

(e)           If the Closing
Working Capital, as agreed upon by the parties or as finally determined by the
Arbitrating Accountant is greater or less than the Target Working Capital, then
the Purchase Price shall be increased by the amount of the excess or decreased
by the amount of the shortfall, as the case may be. Any excess shall be paid by
the Buyer to the Seller within seven (7) days of the final determination of the
Closing Working Capital by wire transfer of immediately available funds. Any
shortfall shall be paid by the Seller to the Buyer within seven (7) days of the
final determination of the Closing Working Capital by wire transfer of
immediately available funds.  

1.3            Contingent Purchase Price .  

(a)           In addition to the
Closing Date Purchase Price and subject to the terms, conditions, and
limitations set forth in this  Section 1.3 , Seller shall be entitled to
the Contingent Purchase Price, provided that during the one-year period
following the Closing Date (the   Measurement Period  ),   the Company generates the EBITDA
Target (as defined below) during the Measurement Period. Within 90 days of the
first anniversary of the Closing Date, Buyer shall prepare and deliver to
Seller a statement (the   Earn Out Closing Statement  )   showing the EBITDA calculation
during the Measurement Period with respect to Buyer s operation of the Company
Business (without regard to any revenue generated or losses incurred as a
result of subsequent acquisitions or dispositions by Buyer relating to or in
connection with the on-going operations of the Company Business following the
Closing Date) as determined by Buyer in accordance with GAAP. At the request of
Seller, Buyer shall deliver to Seller with its delivery of the Earn Out Closing
Statement copies of all working papers in Buyer s possession relevant to Buyer s
determination of the Company Business  EBITDA for the Measurement Period.  

(b)           If EBITDA during the
Measurement Period as reflected on the Earn Out Closing Statement is less than
or equal to Fourteen Million Dollars $14,000,000 (the   EBITDA Target  ),   Seller shall not be entitled to any
of the Contingent Purchase Price. If EBITDA during the Measurement Period as
reflected on the Earn Out Closing Statement exceeds the EBITDA Target, Seller
shall be entitled to Contingent Purchase Price in the amount based on the
calculation set forth in the table below, subject to a maximum of $3,000,000 in
Contingent Purchase Price; it being understood and agreed that the Contingent Purchase
Price shall not exceed $3,000,000 in the aggregate regardless of EBITDA level:  

3  

In the event Buyer does not receive written notice from Seller
disputing its calculation of the amount set forth on the Earn Out Closing
Statement within thirty (30) days following Buyer s delivery of the same to
Seller, Seller shall be deemed to have agreed to such calculation and to the
resulting Contingent Purchase Price payment (if any).  

(c)           Buyer shall pay
Seller the Contingent Purchase Price by wire transfer in immediately available
funds within seven (7) days following the final determination of the Contingent
Purchase Price, to an account specified in writing by Seller.  

(d)           During the
Measurement Period, unless otherwise agreed to by Buyer and Seller, Buyer
agrees (i) to use reasonable commercial efforts to cause the Company to operate
consistent with Buyer s other subsidiaries; (ii) not impose any  home office, 
overhead or other similar charge on the Company that is not generally imposed on
Buyer s other subsidiaries and (iii) that if the Company is combined,
consolidated, merged or liquidated, that Buyer will create and maintain books
and records sufficient to enable Buyer and Seller to determine the Contingent
Purchase Price.  

(e)           Any disputes arising
with respect to the application of this  Section 1.3  shall be resolved in
the same manner as set forth in  Section 1.2(d) .  

1.4            Transfer Fees; Recording Fees;
Taxes . Seller will pay all transfer and assumption fees and expenses and
all sales, use, value added or similar taxes, if any, arising out of the
transfer of the Shares. Seller will, at its own expense, file all necessary Tax
Returns and other documentation with respect to all such taxes and fees with
respect to such transfer of Shares and, if required by Applicable Law, Buyer
will and will cause its Affiliates or any Related Party to, join in the
execution of any such Tax Returns and other documentation. Seller shall cause
to be recorded, and shall pay for all fees and expenses necessary to record,
all recordable Intellectual Property Assets currently in the name of any
predecessor of the Company to be recorded in the name of Zila Nutraceuticals,
Inc. All fees and expenses necessary to record any further changes in title or
name of the Intellectual Property Assets shall be borne by Buyer.  

ARTICLE 2 
THE PARTIES  OBLIGATIONS AT THE CLOSING   

2.1            The Closing . Subject to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement, the sale and purchase of the Shares
contemplated by this Agreement shall take place at a closing (  Closing  )
at the offices of the Seller at 9:00 a.m., Arizona time, on the third
business day after Stockholder Approval is received and all other conditions to
Closing are met or waived (the   Closing Date  ),  

4  

or at such other place or at such other time or date as the Seller and
Buyer may mutually agree upon in writing.  

2.2            Seller s Obligations . At the
Closing, Seller will deliver to Buyer or accomplish the following:  

Seller will assign and transfer to Buyer good
and valid title in and to the Shares, free and clear of all Encumbrances, by
delivery to Buyer stock certificates evidencing the Shares, in genuine and
unaltered form, duly endorsed in blank, or accompanied by stock powers duly executed
in blank; 

all required third-party and governmental
consents that if not obtained would result in a Material Adverse Effect; 

a true and complete copy, certified by the
Secretary of Seller, of the resolutions duly and validly adopted by the Board
of Directors and stockholders of Seller evidencing their authorization of the
execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Transaction Documents and the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby; 

a certificate of a duly authorized officer of
Seller certifying as to the accuracy in all respects of the matters set forth
in  Exhibit B , as if made on the Closing Date (such certificate shall be
deemed to become a part of this Agreement); 

the Transaction Documents (as applicable),
duly executed by an authorized officer of Seller and/or the Company, as
applicable; 

evidence of payment in full of all third
party indebtedness (other than Capital Leases) of the Company and all
intercompany indebtedness of the Company; 

resignation letters for those officers and
directors of the Company that are set forth on Schedule 1 of the Disclosure
Letter; 

opinion of counsel to the Seller,
substantially in the form attached hereto as  Exhibit E ; 

either (i) a properly executed statement satisfying
the requirements of Treas. Reg. Sees. 1.897-2(h) and 1.1445-2(c)(3) in a form
reasonably acceptable to Buyer or (ii) a certificate of non-foreign status
satisfying the requirements of Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.1445-2(b) in a form
reasonably acceptable to Buyer; and 

a properly executed IRS Form 8023. 

5  

2.3            Buyer s Obligations . At the
Closing, Buyer will deliver to Seller the following:  

Thirty Seven Million Five Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($37,500,000) by wire transfer in immediately available funds. Seller
shall designate the bank account or accounts for such payment at least two (2)
business days prior to the Closing; 

all required third-party and governmental
consents; 

a true and complete copy, certified by the
Secretary of the Buyer, of the resolutions duly and validly adopted by the
Board of Directors of the Buyer evidencing its authorization of the execution
and delivery of this Agreement, the Transaction Documents and the consummation
of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby; 

a certificate of a duly authorized officer of
the Buyer certifying as to the accuracy in all respects of the matters set
forth in  Exhibit C , as if made as of the Closing Date (such certificate
shall be deemed to become a part of this Agreement); 

the Transaction Documents (as applicable),
duly executed by an authorized officer of Buyer; and 

opinion of counsel to Buyer, substantially in
the form attached hereto as  Exhibit F . 

ARTICLE 3 
REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND INDEMNIFICATION   

3.1            Representations of Seller Relating
to the Company and the Company Business . Concurrently with the signing of
this Agreement, Seller has prepared a Disclosure Letter that discloses certain
information to Buyer (the   Disclosure Letter  ). Seller
acknowledges that Buyer is relying on the accuracy of the representations and
warranties contained in  Exhibit B . Accordingly, Seller warrants to Buyer
that each of the representations and warranties contained in  Exhibit B ,
as modified by the Disclosure Letter, are true and correct as of the date
hereof and the Closing Date.  

3.2            Representations of Buyer .
Buyer acknowledges that Seller is relying on the accuracy of the
representations and warranties contained in  Exhibit C . Accordingly, Buyer
warrants to Seller that each of the representations and warranties contained in
 Exhibit C  are true and correct as of the date hereof and the Closing
Date.  

3.3            Survival . All representations,
warranties, covenants, and obligations in this Agreement, the certificates
delivered pursuant to  Sections 2.2  and  2.3 , and any other
certificate or document delivered pursuant to this Agreement will survive the
Closing, subject to  Section 3.6  hereof. The right of either party hereto
to indemnification, payment for Losses or other remedy based on such
representations, warranties, covenants, and obligations will not be  

6  

affected by any investigation conducted with respect to, or any
knowledge acquired (or capable of being acquired) at any time, whether before
or after the execution and delivery of this Agreement or before or after the
Closing Date, with respect to the accuracy or inaccuracy of or compliance with,
any such representation, warranty, covenant, or obligation. The waiver of any
condition based on the accuracy of any representation or warranty, or on the
performance of or compliance with any covenant or obligation, will not affect
the right to indemnification, payment for Losses, or other remedy based on such
representations, warranties, covenants, and obligations.  

3.4            Indemnification by Seller .  

(a)             Seller
agrees to indemnify and hold Buyer and its representatives, stockholders,
officers, directors and Affiliates (the   Buyer Parties  ) harmless from and against
any Loss (excluding any Loss Buyer may suffer after the end of any applicable survival
period) arising directly or indirectly from or in connection with:  

(i)            a breach by Seller
of any representation or warranty made by Seller in this Agreement, the Disclosure
Letter or other document or certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement or
the Transaction Documents; or  

(ii)           a breach by Seller
of any of its other obligations or covenants contained in this Agreement, any
Transaction Document or other document delivered in connection herewith or
therewith; or  

(iii)          any claim by any
Person for brokerage or finder s fees or commissions or similar payments based
upon any agreement or understanding alleged to have been made by any such
Person with Seller or the Company (or any Person acting on their behalf) in
connection with any of the transactions contemplated herein.  

(b)           In addition to the
provisions of  Section 3.4(a) , Seller will indemnify and hold harmless
the Buyer Parties for, and will pay to the Buyer Parties the amount of, any Losses
(including costs of cleanup, containment, or other remediation) arising,
directly or indirectly, from or in connection with:  

(i)            any Environmental,
Health, and Safety Liabilities arising out of or relating to: (i) (A) the ownership,
operation, or condition at any time on or prior to the Closing Date of the
Facility or any of the Environmental Properties, or (B) any Hazardous Materials
or other contaminants that were present at the Facility or any of the
Environmental Properties at any time on or prior to the Closing Date; or (ii)
(A) any Hazardous Materials or other contaminants, wherever located, that were,
or were allegedly, generated, transported, stored, treated, Released, or
otherwise handled by the Seller on behalf of the Company or in connection with
Company Business, the Company or by any other Person for whose conduct they are
responsible or are alleged to be responsible at any time on or prior to the
Closing Date, or (B) any Hazardous Activities that were, or were allegedly,
conducted by the Seller on behalf of the Company or in connection with  

7  

Company
Business, the Company or by any other Person for whose conduct they are or may
be held responsible; or  

(ii)           any bodily injury
(including illness, disability, and death, and regardless of when any such
bodily injury occurred, was incurred, or manifested itself), personal injury,
property damage (including trespass, nuisance, wrongful eviction, and
deprivation of the use of real property), or other damage of or to any Person,
including any employee or former employee of the Company or any other Person
for whose conduct the Seller or the Company is responsible, in any way arising
from or allegedly arising from any Hazardous Activity conducted or allegedly
conducted with respect to the Facility or the operation of the Company Business
prior to the Closing Date, or from Hazardous Material that was (i) present or
suspected to be present on or before the Closing Date on or at the Facility (or
present or suspected to be present on any other property, if such Hazardous
Material emanated or allegedly emanated from the Facility and was present or
suspected to be present on the Facility on or prior to the Closing Date) or
(ii) Released or allegedly Released by Seller or the Company or any other
Person for whose conduct they are or may be held responsible, at any time on or
prior to the Closing Date.  

Buyer will be entitled to control any
Cleanup, any related Proceeding, and, except as provided in  Section 3.4(c) ,
any other Proceeding with respect to which indemnity may be sought under this  Section
3.4(b) ; provided, however, that Buyer shall obtain the prior written
consent of Seller prior to expending any amount in excess of $25,000 on such
Cleanup, with such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.  

(c)           Notwithstanding the
foregoing, but subject to the last sentence of this  Section 3.4(c) ,
Seller shall not have any obligation to indemnify Buyer Parties until Buyer
Parties have suffered Losses (in the aggregate) in excess of Five Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($500,000) (the   Threshold Amount  ) and then Seller
shall indemnify Buyer Parties for all amounts by which the Losses exceed the
Threshold Amount. The aggregate amount of payments made by Seller in
satisfaction of Losses shall not exceed 50% of the Purchase Price (the   Cap  ). Notwithstanding the foregoing, Losses resulting from
a breach of any of paragraph 6 of  Exhibit B  (relating to Title to the
Company Business; Encumbrances; Sufficiency of Assets), paragraph 8 of  Exhibit
B  (relating to Tax Matters), paragraph 11 of  Exhibit B  (relating to
Capitalization; Ownership of Shares; Subsidiaries), paragraph 19 of  Exhibit
B  (relating to Employee Benefits), paragraph 22 of  Exhibit B 
(relating to Environmental Matters) or paragraph 25 of  Exhibit B 
(relating to Intellectual Property; Licenses) shall not be subject to the Cap
or Threshold Amount, and Seller shall indemnify Buyer Parties for any such
Losses from the first dollar of such Loss up to the amount of the Purchase
Price.  

(d)           Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Seller will indemnify and hold
harmless the Buyer Parties for any Loss relating to or arising out of the
Landes matter described on Schedule 9 of the Disclosure Letter and such matter
shall not be subject to the Threshold Amount or the Cap; provided, however,
that Seller shall  

8  

be
entitled to retain control of any suits, claims, actions, arbitrations,
investigations, or proceedings entered against the Company or Seller relating
to such matter.  

(e)           The procedures for
bringing an indemnity claim are set forth in  Exhibit D .  

3.5            Indemnification by Buyer .  

(a)           Buyer agrees to
indemnify and hold Seller and its representatives harmless from and against any
Loss incurred by Seller in connection with or alleged to result from the
following:  

(i)            a breach by Buyer
of any representation or warranty made pursuant to  Section 3.2  above or
otherwise in this Agreement or other document or certificate delivered pursuant
to this Agreement or the Transaction Documents; or  

(ii)           a breach by Buyer
of any of its obligations or covenants contained in this Agreement, any
Transaction Document or other document delivered in connection herewith or
therewith; or  

(iii)          any claim by any
Person for brokerage or finder s fees or commissions or similar payments based
upon any agreement or understanding alleged to have been made by any such
Person with Buyer (or any Person acting on their behalf) in connection with any
of the transactions contemplated herein.  

(b)           Buyer shall not have
any obligation to indemnify Seller until Seller has suffered Losses (in the
aggregate) in excess of the Threshold Amount.  

3.6            Time
Limitations .  

(a)           If the Closing occurs,
Seller will have liability (for indemnification and otherwise) with respect to
any breach of (i) a covenant or obligation to be performed or complied with
prior to the Closing Date, for which a claim may be made at any time prior to
the date of expiration of the statue of limitations applicable to such claim;
or (ii) a representation or warranty (other than those in  Exhibit B 
paragraphs 6, 8, 11, 19, 22 and 25, as to which a claim may be made at any time
prior to the date of expiration of the statue of limitations applicable to the
statute, regulation or other authority which gave rise to such Loss), only if,
with regards to subsection (ii) of this  Section 3.6 , on or before the
second anniversary of the Closing Date, Buyer notifies Seller in writing of a claim
specifying the factual basis of the claim in reasonable detail to the extent
then known by Buyer.  

(b)           If the Closing
occurs, Buyer will have liability (for indemnification and otherwise) with
respect to any breach of (i) a covenant or obligation to be performed or
complied with prior to the Closing Date, for which a claim may be made at any
time prior to the date of expiration of the statue of limitations applicable to
such claim; or (ii) a representation or warranty only if on or before the
second anniversary of the Closing Date, Seller notifies Buyer in writing of a
claim specifying the factual basis of the claim in reasonable detail to the
extent then known by Seller.  

9  

(c)           Absent fraud or
malicious intent, the sole and exclusive remedies for breach of this Agreement
are specified in  Section 3.4 ,  Section 3.5 , and  Section 3.6 .  

ARTICLE 4 
COVENANTS OF SELLER PRIOR TO CLOSING DATE   

4.1            Access
and Investigation . Between the Effective Date and the Closing Date, Seller
will, and will cause the Company and its representatives to, (a) afford Buyer
and its officers, directors, employees, agents, counsel, accountants, financial
advisors, consultants and other representatives (collectively,   Buyer s
Advisors  ) full and free access to the Company s personnel,
properties, contracts, books and records, and other documents and data
pertaining to the Company Business, provided, however, that any such access
cannot unreasonably interfere with Company Business, (b) furnish Buyer and
Buyer s Advisors with copies of all such contracts, books and records, and
other existing documents and data pertaining to the Company Business as Buyer
may reasonably request, and (c) furnish Buyer and Buyer s Advisors with such
additional financial, operating, and other data and information as Buyer may
reasonably request.  

4.2            Regulatory
and Other Approvals . Seller will, and will cause the Company to, (a) take
all commercially reasonable steps necessary and proceed diligently and in good
faith and use all commercially reasonable efforts, as promptly as practicable
to obtain all consents, approvals or actions of, to make all filings with and
to give all notices to any Governmental Body or any other Person required of
Seller or the Company to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and by
the Transaction Documents, including, without limitation, those described in
the Disclosure Letter, (b) provide such other information and communications to
such Governmental Body or other Person as Buyer or such Governmental Body or
other Person may reasonably request in connection therewith and (c) cooperate
with Buyer as promptly as practicable in obtaining all consents, approvals or
actions of, making all filings with and giving all notices to the appropriate
Governmental Body or other Person required of Buyer to consummate the
transactions contemplated hereby and by the Transaction Documents. Seller will
provide prompt notification to Buyer when any such consent, approval, action,
filing or notice referred to in clause (a) above is obtained, taken, made or
given, as applicable, and will advise Buyer of any communications (and, unless
precluded by law, provide copies of any such communications that are in
writing) with any Governmental Body or other Person regarding any of the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Transaction Documents.
Seller shall not agree to participate in any meeting with any Governmental Body
in respect of any filings, investigation or other inquiry unless it consults
with Buyer in advance and, to the extent permitted by such Governmental Body,
gives Buyer the opportunity to attend and participate in such meeting.  

4.3            Stockholder
Meeting; Proxy .  

(a)  As promptly as practicable
following the Effective Date, the Seller, acting through its Board of
Directors, shall, in accordance with Applicable Law and the Seller s current
certificate of incorporation and by-laws:  

10  

(i)            duly call, give
notice of, convene and hold an annual or special meeting of the Seller s
stockholders for the purposes of obtaining the Stockholder Approval (the   Seller
Stockholders Meeting     and  

(ii)           in consultation
with Buyer, prepare and file with the SEC a preliminary proxy or information
statement relating to this Agreement and obtain and furnish the information
required by the SEC to be included in the definitive proxy statement and, after
consultation with Buyer, respond promptly to any comments made by the SEC with
respect to the preliminary proxy or information statement and cause a
definitive proxy or information statement (together with all amendments,
supplements and exhibits thereto, the   Proxy Statement  )
to be mailed to the Seller s stockholders of record at the earliest practicable
date; provided that no amendments or supplements to the Proxy Statement shall
be made by the Seller without consultation with Buyer. Buyer shall provide the
Seller with such information with respect to Buyer and its Affiliates as shall
be required to be included in the Proxy Statement.  

(b) Without limiting any other provision of this Agreement, whenever
any party hereto becomes aware of any event or change which is required to be
set forth in an amendment or supplement to the Proxy Statement, such party
shall promptly inform the other parties thereof and each of the parties shall
cooperate in the preparation, filing with the SEC and (as and to the extent
required by applicable federal securities laws) dissemination to the Seller s
stockholders of such amendment or supplement.  

4.4            No
Solicitations . Subject to  Section 7.3 , Seller will not take, nor
will it permit the Company, or any Affiliate of Seller or the Company (or
authorize or permit any investment banker, financial advisor, attorney,
accountant or other Person retained by or acting for or on behalf of Seller,
the Company or any such Affiliate) to take, directly or indirectly, any action
to initiate, assist, solicit, receive, negotiate, encourage or accept any offer
or inquiry from any Person (a) to engage in any Business Combination with the
Company, (b) to reach any agreement or understanding (whether or not such
agreement or understanding is absolute, binding, revocable, contingent or
conditional) for, or otherwise attempt to consummate, any Business Combination
with the Company or (c) to furnish or cause to be furnished any information
with respect to the Company to any Person (other than as contemplated by  Section 4.1 )
who Seller, the Company, or such Affiliate (or any such Person acting for or on
their behalf) knows or has reason to believe is in the process of considering
any Business Combination with the Company. If Seller, the Company or any such
Affiliate (or any such Person acting for or on their behalf) receives from any
Person (other than Buyer or any other Person referred to in  Section 4.1 )
any offer, inquiry or informational request referred to above, Seller will
promptly advise such Person, by written notice, of the terms of this  Section 4.4 ,
and will promptly, orally and in writing, advise Buyer of such offer, inquiry
or request and delivery of a copy of such notice to Buyer.  

4.5            Conduct
of Business . Seller will cause the Company to conduct the Company Business
only in the ordinary course consistent with past practice. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, Seller will:  

11  

(a)           cause the Company to
use commercially reasonable efforts to (i) preserve intact the present business
organization and reputation of the Company and the Company Business, (ii) keep
available (subject to dismissals and retirements in the ordinary course of
business consistent with past practice) the services of the present officers,
employees and consultants of the Company, (iii) maintain the assets and
properties of the Company Business in good working order and condition,
ordinary wear and tear excepted, (iv) maintain the good will of customers,
suppliers, lenders and other Persons to whom the Company sells goods or
provides services or with whom the Company otherwise has significant business
relationships, (v) continue all current sales, marketing and promotional
activities relating to the Company Business, (vi) confer with Buyer concerning
operational matters of a material nature involving the Company Business, (vii)
maintain the Intellectual Property Assets in the ordinary course of Company
Business, and (viii) otherwise periodically report to Buyer concerning the
status of the business, operations and finances of the Company and the Company
Business;  

(b)           except to the extent
required by Applicable Law, (i) cause the books and records to be maintained in
the usual, regular and ordinary manner consistent with past practice, (ii) not
permit any material change in (A) any pricing, investment, accounting,
financial reporting, inventory, credit, allowance or Tax practice or policy of
the Company pertaining to the Company Business, or (B) any method of
calculating any bad debt, contingency or other reserve of the Company for
accounting, financial reporting or Tax purposes and (iii) not permit any change
in the fiscal year of the Company;  

(c)           (i) use, and will
cause the Company to use, commercially reasonable efforts to maintain in full
force and effect until the Closing substantially the same levels of insurance
coverage relating to the Company Business and (ii) cause any and all benefits
paid or payable (whether before or after the date of this Agreement) with
respect to the Company Business, employees or assets and properties of the
Company and the Company Business to be paid to the Company; and  

(d)           cause the Company to
comply, in all material respects, with all Applicable Laws and orders
applicable to the Company Business and promptly following receipt thereof to
give Buyer copies of any notice received from any Governmental Body, or other
Person alleging any violation of any such law or order.  

4.6            Employee
Matters . Except as may be required by Applicable Law, Seller will refrain,
and will cause the Company to refrain, from directly or indirectly:  

(a)           making any representation
or promise, oral or written, to any officer, employee or consultant of the
Company concerning any Employee Plan, except for the statements as to the
rights or accrued benefits of any officer, employee or consultant under the
terms of any Employee Plan;  

(b)           making any increase
in the salary, wages or other compensation of any officer, employee or
consultant of the Company whose annual salary is or, after giving effect to
such change, would be $75,000 or more without the prior written consent of Buyer;  

12  

(c)           adopting, entering
into or becoming bound by any Employee Plan, employment-related contract or
collective bargaining agreement covering employees or consultants of the
Company, or amending, modifying or terminating (partially or completely) any
Employee Plan, employment-related contract or collective bargaining agreement
impacting employees or consultants of the Company, except to the extent
required by Applicable Law and, in the event compliance with legal requirements
presents options, only to the extent that the options which the Company
reasonably believes to be the least costly is chosen; or  

(d)           establishing or
modifying any (i) targets, goals, pools or similar provisions in respect of any
fiscal year under any Employee Plan, employment-related contract or other
employee compensation arrangement covering employees or consultants of the
Company or (ii) salary ranges, increase guidelines or similar provisions in
respect of any Employee Plan, employment-related contract or other employee
compensation arrangement covering employees or consultants of the Company.  

Seller will cause the Company to administer
each Employee Plan, or cause the same to be so administered, in all material
respects in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Code, ERISA and
all other Applicable Laws. Seller will promptly notify Buyer in writing of each
receipt by Seller or the Company (and furnish Buyer with copies) of any notice
of investigation or administrative proceeding by the IRS, Department of Labor,
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or other Person involving any Employee
Plan.  

4.7            Certain
Restrictions . Seller will cause the Company to refrain from:  

(a)           amending its
certificates or articles of incorporation or by-laws (or other comparable
corporate charter documents) or taking any action with respect to any such
amendment or any recapitalization, reorganization, liquidation or dissolution;  

(b)           authorizing,
issuing, selling or otherwise disposing of any shares of capital stock of or
any options with respect to the Company, or modifying or amending any right of
any holder of outstanding shares of capital stock of or options with respect to
the Company;  

(c)           declaring, setting
aside or paying any dividend or other distribution in respect of the capital
stock of the Company except in the ordinary course of business and consistent
with past practice or in connection with the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, or directly or indirectly redeeming, purchasing or otherwise
acquiring any capital stock of or any options with respect to the Company;  

(d)           acquiring or
disposing of, or incurring any Encumbrance (other than a Permitted Encumbrance)
on, any assets and properties of the Company Business having a fair market
value, individually or in the aggregate, in excess of $25,000, except with
respect to the disposition of inventory in the ordinary course of business;  

(e)           (i) except in the
ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice or as may be
required to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement,
entering into, amending, modifying, terminating (partially or completely),  

13  

granting
any waiver under or giving any consent with respect to (A) any contract that
would, if in existence on the date of this Agreement, be required to be
disclosed in the Disclosure Letter or (B) any license, provided, however, that
Seller and Company must consult with Buyer before taking any definitive action
with respect to any of the matters described in  Section 4.7(e)(i)(A)  or  Section
4.7(e)(i)(B) , or (ii) granting any irrevocable powers of attorney;  

(f)            violating,
breaching or defaulting under, or taking or failing to take any action that
(with or without notice or lapse of time or both) would constitute a material
violation or breach of, or default under, any term or provision of any license
held or used by the Company or used in the Company Business or any contract to
which the Company is a party or by which any of the assets and properties of
the Company Business are bound;  

(g)           (i) incurring
indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $10,000 (net of any
amounts of indebtedness discharged during such period), or (ii) other than as
required in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, purchasing,
canceling, prepaying or otherwise providing for a complete or partial discharge
in advance of a scheduled payment date with respect to, or waiving any right of
the Company under, any indebtedness owing to the Company;  

(h)           engaging with any
Person in any Business Combination, except as permitted by  Section 7.3 ;  

(i)            making capital
expenditures or commitments for additions to property, plant or equipment
constituting capital assets in an aggregate amount exceeding $50,000;  

(j)            making any material
change in the Company Business;  

(k)           writing off or
writing down any of its assets and properties relating to the Company Business
outside the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; or  

(l)            entering into any
contract to do or engage in any of the foregoing.  

4.8            Affiliate
Transactions . Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter, immediately
prior to the Closing, all indebtedness and other amounts owing under contracts
between Seller, any officer, director, Affiliate (other than the Company) on
the one hand, and the Company, on the other, will be paid in full, and Seller
will terminate and will cause any such officer, director, or Affiliate to
terminate each such contract with the Company. Except as may be required in
connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, prior to the
Closing, the Company will not enter into any contract or amend or modify any
existing contract, and will not engage in any transaction outside the ordinary
course of business consistent with past practice or not on an arm s-length
basis (other than pursuant to contracts disclosed pursuant to the Disclosure
Letter), with Seller or any such officer, director, or Affiliate.  

4.9            Books
and Records . On the Closing Date, Seller will deliver or make available to
Buyer at the offices of the Company all of the books and records pertaining to
the Company  

14  

Business, and if at any time after the Closing, Seller discovers in its
possession or under its control any other books and records pertaining to the
Company Business, it will forthwith deliver such books and records to Buyer.  

4.10          Notice
and Cure . Seller will notify Buyer in writing (where appropriate, through
updates to the Disclosure Letter) of, and contemporaneously will provide Buyer
with true and complete copies of any and all information or documents relating
to, and will use all commercially reasonable efforts to cure before the Closing,
any event, transaction or circumstance, as soon as practicable after it becomes
known to Seller, occurring after the date of this Agreement that causes or will
cause any covenant or agreement of Seller or the Company under this Agreement
to be breached or that renders or will render untrue any representation or
warranty of Seller contained in this Agreement as if the same were made on or
as of the date of such event, transaction or circumstance. Seller also will
notify Buyer in writing (where appropriate, through updates to the Disclosure
Letter) of, and will use all commercially reasonable efforts to cure, before
the Closing, any violation or breach, as soon as practicable after it becomes
known to Seller, of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement made by
Seller in this Agreement, whether occurring or arising before, on or after the
date of this Agreement. No notice given pursuant to this  Section 4.10 
shall have any effect on the representations, warranties, covenants or
agreements contained in this Agreement for purposes of determining satisfaction
of any condition contained herein or shall in any way limit Buyer s right to
seek indemnity under Article 3.  

4.11          Fulfillment
of Conditions . Seller will execute and deliver at the Closing each Transaction
Document that Seller is required hereby to execute and deliver as a condition
to the Closing, will take all commercially reasonable steps necessary or
desirable and proceed diligently and in good faith to satisfy each condition to
the obligations of Buyer contained in this Agreement and will not, and will not
permit the Company to take or fail to take any action that could reasonably be
expected to result in the nonfulfillment of any such condition.  

4.12          Best
Efforts . Subject to  Section 7.3 , between the Effective Date and the
Closing Date, Seller will use its reasonable best efforts to cause the
conditions in Article 2 to be satisfied.  

4.13          Employee
Stock Purchase Plan . Pursuant to Section 8.3 of the Seller s Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (the   ESPP  ), because
the Company will no longer be a subsidiary or affiliate of Seller, Company
employees will not be eligible to participate in the ESPP on and after the
Closing Date. Accordingly, Seller will return to the employees of the Company
who participated in the ESPP at any time prior to the Closing Date all funds
that such participating employees contributed prior to the Closing Date to the
ESPP to the extent that such funds were not used as of the Closing Date to
purchase shares of common stock of Seller. Seller shall return such funds to
such employees as soon as administratively practicable through its existing
payroll processes. Seller covenants and agrees that by purchasing the Shares,
Buyer is not assuming any obligations under the ESPP.  

15  

ARTICLE 5   

   COVENANTS OF BUYER PRIOR TO CLOSING DATE   

5.1            Approvals
of Governmental Bodies . As promptly as practicable after the Effective
Date, Buyer will, and will cause each of its Related Persons to, (a) make all
filings required by legal requirements to be made by them to consummate the
transactions contemplated hereunder. Buyer will cooperate with Seller with
respect to all filings that Seller is required by legal requirements to make in
connection with the transactions contemplated hereunder, and (b) cooperate with
Seller in obtaining all consents identified in the Disclosure Letter; provided
that this Agreement will not require Buyer to dispose of or make any change in
any portion of its business or to incur any other burden to obtain a
Governmental Authorization.  

5.2            Best
Efforts . Except as set forth in the proviso to  Section 5.1 , between
the Effective Date and the Closing Date, Buyer will use its reasonable best
efforts to cause the conditions in Article 2 to be satisfied.  

ARTICLE 6 
TAX MATTERS   

6.1            Tax
Indemnification .  

(a)           Seller shall be liabile
to Buyer for, and shall indemnify and hold Buyer and the Company harmless from
and against, any and all Taxes due or payable by the Company or imposed on the
Company for any Pre-Closing Tax Period, (as defined below) and any Straddle
Period, (as defined below) except to the extent that accruals for such Taxes
are reflected in the Closing Balance Sheet.  

(b)           In the case of any
taxable period that includes (but does not end on) the Closing Date (a   Straddle
Period  ),   the
amount of any Income Taxes for all taxable periods ending on or before the
Closing Date and the portion through the end of the Closing Date for any
taxable period that includes (but does not end on) the Closing Date (  Pre-Closing
Tax Period  ) shall be determined based on an interim closing
of the books as of the close of business on the Closing Date and the amount of
other Taxes of the Company for a Straddle Period that relates to the
Pre-Closing Tax Period shall be deemed to be the amount of such Tax for the
entire taxable period multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the
number of days in the taxable period ending on the Closing Date and the
denominator of which is the number of days in such Straddle Period.  

6.2            Responsibility
for Filing Tax Returns . Buyer shall prepare or cause to be prepared and
file or cause to be filed all Tax Returns for the Company that are filed after
the Closing Date other than Income Tax Returns with respect to periods for
which a consolidated, unitary or combined Income Tax Return of Seller will
include the operations of the Company. Buyer shall permit Seller to review and
comment on each such Income Tax Return described in the preceding sentence
prior to filing and shall make revisions to such Income Tax Returns as are reasonably
requested by Seller. Seller shall permit Buyer to review and comment on each consolidated,
unitary or combined Income Tax Return filed by the Company after the Closing  

16  

Date with respect to the
Pre-Closing Period, but only to the extent such consolidated, unitary, or
combined Income Tax Return applies to the Company. Seller shall reimburse Buyer
for Taxes of the Company with respect to the Pre-Closing Tax Period within
fifteen (15) days after payment by Buyer or the Company of such Taxes to the
extent such Taxes were not reflected as a liability in determining the Purchase
Price pursuant to  Section 1.2  of this Agreement.  

6.3            Refunds
and Tax Benefits . Any Tax refunds that are received by Buyer or the
Company, and any amounts credited against Taxes to which Buyer or the Company
become entitled, that relate to the Pre-Closing Tax Period shall be for the
account of Seller, and Buyer shall pay over to Seller any such refund or the
amount of any such credit within 15 days after receipt or entitlement thereto.
In addition, to the extent that a claim for refund or a proceeding results in a
payment or credit against Tax by a taxing authority to Buyer or the Company of
any amount accrued on the Closing Balance Sheet, Buyer shall pay such amount to
Seller within 15 days after receipt or entitlement thereto. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, Seller shall not be entitled to any refund, or portion thereof, if such
refund, or portion thereof, (i) is the result of the carryback of any operating
losses, net operating losses, capital losses, Tax credits or similar items
arising in a taxable period (or portion thereof) beginning after the Closing
Date, or (ii) is taken into account in determining the Purchase Price pursuant
to  Section 1.2  of this Agreement. To the extent any refund from one
jurisdiction is treated as income to another jurisdiction, any Tax owed to such
other jurisdiction on account of such refund shall reduce the amount paid to
the Seller under this  Section 6.3 .  

6.4            Contests .  

(a)           After the Closing,
Buyer shall promptly notify the Seller in writing of any written notice of a
proposed assessment or claim in an audit or administrative or judicial proceeding
of Buyer or the Company which, if determined adversely to the Company, would be
grounds for indemnification under this Agreement.  

(b)           In the case of an
audit or administrative or judicial proceeding that relates to taxable periods
ending on or before the date of the Closing, the Seller shall have the right at
its expense to participate in and control the conduct of such audit or
proceeding; Buyer also may participate in any such audit or proceeding and, if
the Seller does not assume the defense of any such audit or proceeding, Buyer
may defend the same in such manner as it may deem appropriate, including
settling such audit or proceeding after five days prior written notice to the
Seller setting forth the terms and conditions of settlement; provided, however,
if Buyer gives notice to Seller of the commencement of any audit or
administrative or judicial proceedings and the Seller does not, within twenty
(20) business days, after Buyer s notice is given to Seller, give notice to
Buyer or Company, as applicable, of its election to assume the defense thereof,
then the Seller shall be bound by any determination made in such audit or
administrative or judicial proceeding or any compromise or settlement thereof
effected by Buyer. The failure of Buyer to give reasonably prompt notice of any
audit or administrative or judicial proceeding shall not release, waive or
otherwise affect Seller s obligations with respect thereto except to the extent
that the Seller can demonstrate actual loss as a result of such failure. In the
event that issues relating to a potential adjustment are required to be
contested in the same audit or proceeding as separate issues relating to a
potential adjustment for which Buyer would  

17  

be liable, Buyer shall have the right, at its expense,
to control the audit or proceeding with respect to the latter issues.  

(c)           With respect to
issues relating to a potential adjustment for which both the Seller and Buyer
or the Company could be liable, (i) both the Seller and Buyer may participate
in the audit or proceeding, and (ii) the audit or proceeding shall be
controlled by that party which would bear the burden of the greater portion of
the sum of the adjustment and any corresponding adjustments that may reasonably
be anticipated for future taxable periods; provided, however, neither Buyer nor
the Seller shall enter into any compromise or agree to settle any such matter
without the written consent of the other party, which consent may not be
unreasonably withheld. The principle set forth in this  Section 6.4(c) 
also shall govern for purposes of deciding any issue that must be decided
jointly (including choice of judicial forum) in situations in which separate
issues are otherwise controlled under this Article 6 by Buyer and the Seller;
provided, however, neither Buyer nor Seller shall enter into any compromise or
agree to settle any such matter without the written consent of the other party,
which consent may not be unreasonably withheld.  

(d)           With respect to any
audit or administrative or judicial proceeding for a taxable period that begins
before the Closing Date, neither Buyer nor the Seller shall enter into any
compromise or agree to settle any claim pursuant to such audit or proceeding
which would adversely affect the other party for such taxable period or a
subsequent taxable period without the written consent of the other party, which
consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Buyer and the Seller agree to
cooperate, and Buyer agrees to cause the Company to cooperate, in the defense
against or compromise of any claim in any such audit or proceeding.  

6.5            Cooperation
on Tax Matters .  

(a)           Buyer, the Company
and Seller shall cooperate fully, as and to the extent reasonably requested by
the other party, in connection with the filing of Tax Returns pursuant to this  Section
6.5  and any audit, litigation or other proceeding with respect to Taxes.
Such cooperation shall include the retention and (upon the other party s
request) the provision of records and information that are reasonably relevant
to any such audit, litigation or other proceeding and making employees
reasonably available on a mutually convenient basis to provide additional
information and explanation of any material provided hereunder. The Company and
Seller agree (i) to retain all books and records with respect to Tax matters
pertinent to the Company relating to any taxable period beginning before the
Closing Date until the expiration of the statute of limitations (and, to the
extent notified by Buyer or Seller, any extensions thereof) of the respective
taxable periods, and to abide by all record retention agreements entered into
with any taxing authority, and (ii) to give the other party reasonable written
notice prior to transferring, destroying or discarding any such books and
records and, if the other party so requests, the Company or Seller, as the case
may be, shall allow the other party to take possession of such books and
records.  

18  

(b)           Buyer and Seller
further agree, upon request, to use their best efforts to obtain any
certificate or other document from any governmental authority or any other
Person as may be necessary to mitigate, reduce or eliminate any Tax that could
be imposed (including, but not limited to, with respect to the transactions
contemplated hereby).  

6.6            Tax
Sharing Agreements . All Tax sharing agreements or similar agreements with
respect to or involving the Company shall be either terminated or amended as of
the Closing Date so that, after the Closing Date, the Company shall not be
bound thereby or have any liability thereunder.  

6.7            Tax
Treatment of Indemnification Payments . Buyer and Seller agree to treat any
indemnification payment made pursuant to this Agreement as an adjustment to the
Purchase Price for all Tax purposes, unless otherwise required by Applicable
Law.  

6.8            Section
338(h)(10) Election . Buyer and Seller shall join in making an election
under Code  338(h)(10) (and any corresponding elections under state, local, or
foreign tax law) (collectively a   Section 338(h)(10) Election  ) with
respect to the purchase and sale of the Company hereunder. Buyer shall prepare
an allocation of the applicable portion of the Purchase Price (and all other
capitalized costs), to be jointly updated by Buyer and Seller for any
adjustments to the Purchase Price pursuant to  Sections 1.2  and  1.3 ,
among the assets of the Company in accordance with Section 338(h)(10) of the
Code and Treasury Regulations thereunder (and any similar provision of state,
local or non-U.S. law, as appropriate). Buyer shall deliver its proposed
allocation to Seller in writing within thirty (30) days following the final
determination of the Closing Date Purchase Price pursuant to  Section 1.2 
(but in no event later than four (4) months following the Closing Date) and, to
the extent that the Seller does not agree with such proposed allocations, it
shall so notify Buyer in writing within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
proposed allocations. Seller and Buyer shall in good faith cooperate with the
other to resolve any issues with Buyer s proposed allocations; provided,
however, that if Seller and Buyer are unable to agree on the proposed
allocations within twenty (20) days after the Seller s delivery of its notice
of disagreement with such proposed allocations, then resolution of any such
disagreement shall be determined by a nationally recognized accounting firm
agreeable to both Seller and Buyer and the determination by such accounting
firm shall be binding on Buyer and Seller. If the parties elect to make a
Section 338(h)(10) Election, Buyer, Seller the Company and their Related
Persons and Affiliates shall report, act and file Tax Returns (including, but
not limited to IRS Form 8023 and 8883) in all respects and for all purposes
consistent with the allocation finally determined pursuant to this Section 6.8.
If the parties elect to make a Section 338(h)(10) Election, none of Buyer,
Seller, the Company nor their Related Persons and Affiliates shall take any
position (whether in audits, Tax Returns, or otherwise) which is inconsistent
with such final allocation unless required to do so by law.  

ARTICLE 7 
TERMINATION; ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS   

7.1            Termination .
This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Closing Date, whether
before or after Stockholder Approval:  

19  

(a)           by mutual written
consent of Buyer and Seller; or  

(b)           by either Buyer or
Seller by giving written notice to the other party if the other party breaches
any of its covenants contained in this Agreement and, if the breach is curable,
the breach is not cured within ten (10) business days after such notice; or  

(c)           by either Buyer or
Seller by giving written notice to the other party if the other party breaches
any of its representations or warranties contained in this Agreement that would
result in a Material Adverse Effect and, if the breach is curable, the breach
is not cured within ten (10) business days after such notice; or  

(d)           by either Buyer or Seller
if the Closing does not occur on or before October 31, 2006 (except that no
party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement unilaterally if the
event giving rise to the non-occurrence of the Closing is primarily
attributable to that party or to any affiliated party); or  

(e)           by Buyer if any of
the conditions in  Section 2.2  have not been satisfied as of the Closing
Date or if satisfaction of such a condition is or becomes impossible (other
than through the failure of Buyer to comply with its obligations under this
Agreement) and Buyer has not waived such condition on or before the Closing
Date; or by Seller if any of the conditions in  Section 2.3  have not been
satisfied as of the Closing Date or if satisfaction of such a condition is or
becomes impossible (other than through the failure of Seller to comply with its
obligations under this Agreement) and Seller has not waived such condition on
or before the Closing Date;  

(f)            by Seller if Seller
receives a Superior Proposal pursuant to  Section 7.3 ; or  

(g)           by Seller if Seller
does not receive Stockholder Approval.  

7.2            Effect
of Termination . Each party s right of termination under  Section 7.1 
is in addition to any other rights it may have under this Agreement or
otherwise, and the exercise of a right of termination will not be an election
of remedies. If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to  Section 7.1 ,
all further obligations of the parties under this Agreement will terminate,
except that the obligations in  Section 7.13  will survive; provided, however,
that if this Agreement is terminated by a party because of the breach of the
Agreement by the other party or because one or more of the conditions to the
terminating party s obligations under this Agreement is not satisfied as a
result of the other party s failure to comply with its obligations under this
Agreement, the terminating party s right to pursue all legal remedies will
survive such termination unimpaired.  

7.3            Fiduciary
Duties .  

(a)           Notwithstanding
anything in this Agreement to the contrary, Seller may, in response to a bona
fide unsolicited proposal that constitutes an Acquisition Proposal, participate
in discussions or negotiations with, or furnish or disclose any non-public
information to, any Person that makes such Acquisition Proposal if (i) Seller
reasonably determines in good faith that such Acquisition Proposal is, or may
reasonably be expected to lead to, a Superior Proposal, (ii) Seller shall have
provided prompt notice to  

20  

the
Buyer of its intent to take such action, the identity of the Person making the
Acquisition Proposal and the material terms and conditions of such Acquisition
Proposal and (iii) Seller received from such Person an executed confidentiality
agreement in reasonably customary form. If such an Acquisition Proposal results
in a Superior Proposal, Seller may terminate this Agreement pursuant to  Section
7.1 ; provided, however, that if Seller terminates this Agreement as a
result of a Superior Proposal, Seller shall reimburse Buyer for all of its
costs and expenses up to $750,000 incurred in connection with this Agreement
and the transactions contemplated hereby.  

(b)           Nothing in this
Agreement shall prohibit the Seller from making any disclosure to Seller s
stockholders as, in the good faith judgment of Seller s Board of Directors, is
required under Applicable Law or where the failure to make such disclosure is
reasonably likely to cause the members of the Board of Directors of the Seller
to violate their fiduciary duties.  

7.4            Books
and Records; Post Closing . The parties will make reasonably available to
one another any records or documents that they maintain with respect to the
Company or the Company Business for purposes of compliance with applicable laws
or in defending any third-party litigation arising in respect of this
Agreement. Seller will make available to Buyer, at Buyer s request and expense,
all books and records of Seller relating to the Company Business which are
reasonably necessary with respect to Buyer s ongoing operations for inspection
or copying by Buyer at any reasonable time for a five (5) year period after the
Closing Date. Buyer will make available to Seller, at Seller s request and
expense, all books and records of Buyer relating to the Company Business which
are reasonably necessary with respect to any governmental investigation or
third-party litigation or claim for inspection or copying by Seller at any
reasonable time for a five (5) year period after the Closing Date.  

7.5            Use
of Business Name . After the Closing, the Buyer will not, directly or
indirectly, use or do business, or allow any Affiliate to use or do business,
or assist any third party in using or doing business, under or using the name
containing or similar to the word  Zila  provided, however, that (a) Buyer
shall have 30 days following the Closing Date to change the Company s name to
remove the word  Zila  and provide Seller with evidence of such change and (b)
Buyer shall have the right to sell the Company s inventory and all packaging
materials existing as of the Closing. Buyer must use its commercially
reasonable best efforts to dispose of any such inventory and packaging
materials as soon as is commercially practicable after the Closing Date.  

7.6            Transaction
Expenses . Subject to  Section 7.3(a) , Seller shall be responsible for
all of the legal fees and expenses relating to the proposed transactions
incurred by Seller or the Company. Buyer shall be responsible for all of the
legal fees and expenses relating to the proposed transaction incurred by Buyer.  

7.7            Notices .
All notices, and other communications hereunder will be in writing and deemed
to have been given when (i) delivered by hand, (ii) sent by telecopier (with
receipt confirmed), (iii) sent by email, or (iv) when actually received by the
addressee, in each case to the following:  

21  

7.8            Governing Law . The validity, construction, and
enforceability of this Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the laws
of the State of Arizona, including, without limitation, its laws regarding
choice of law.  

7.9            Assignment . This Agreement will not be assigned by
operation of law or otherwise, except that Buyer may assign all or any portion
of its rights under this Agreement to any of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, but
no such assignment will relieve Buyer of its obligations hereunder, and except
that this Agreement may be assigned by operation of law to any corporation or
entity with or into which Buyer may be merged or consolidated or to which Buyer
transfers all or substantially all of its assets, and such corporation or
entity assumes this Agreement and all obligations and undertakings of Buyer
hereunder.  

7.10          Intent to be Binding: Entire Agreement . The
Disclosure Letter, the Transaction Documents and Exhibits referred to herein
are incorporated herein by this reference as if fully set forth in the text of
this Agreement. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts,
and each counterpart constitutes an original instrument, but all such separate
counterparts constitute one and the same agreement. This Agreement (including
the Disclosure Letter) and the Confidentiality Agreement contain the entire
agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and
there are no agreements, understandings, representations  

22  

or warranties other than those set forth or referred to herein. This
Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing approved by
Buyer and Seller. If any term, provision, covenant, or restriction of this
Agreement is held by a court to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of
the terms, provisions, covenants, and restrictions of this Agreement will
remain in full force and effect and will in no way be affected or invalidated
and the court will modify this Agreement or, in the absence thereof, the
parties agree to negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement to preserve
each party s anticipated benefits under this Agreement.  

7.11          Waiver
of Provisions . The terms, covenants, representations, warranties, and
conditions of this Agreement may be waived only by a written instrument
executed by the party waiving compliance. The rights and remedies of the
parties to this Agreement are cumulated and not alternative. The failure of any
party at any time to require performance of any provisions hereof will, in no
manner, affect the right at a later date to enforce the same. No waiver by any
party of any condition, or breach of any provision, term, covenant,
representation, or warranty contained in this Agreement, whether by conduct or
otherwise, in any one or more instances, will be deemed to be or construed as a
further or continuing waiver of any such condition or of the breach of any
other provision, term, covenant, representation, or warranty of this Agreement.  

7.12          Jurisdiction .
Any Proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Transaction
Documents or any transaction contemplated hereunder or thereunder may be
brought in the courts of the State of Delaware and each of the parties
irrevocably submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of each such court in any such
Proceeding, waives any objection it may now or hereafter have to venue or to
convenience of forum, agrees that all claims in respect of the Proceeding shall
be heard and determined only in any such court and agrees not to bring any
Proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Transaction
Documents or any transaction contemplated hereunder or thereunder in any other
court. The parties agree that either or both of them may file a copy of this
paragraph with any court as written evidence of the knowing, voluntary and
bargained agreement between the parties irrevocably to waive any objections to
venue or to convenience of forum. Process in any Proceeding referred to in the
first sentence of this section may be served on any party anywhere in the world.  

7.13          Confidentiality .
The terms of the mutual nondisclosure agreement dated as of March 30, 2006 (the
  Confidentiality
Agreement  ) between Seller and Buyer are hereby incorporated
herein by reference and shall continue in full force and effect until the
Closing Date, at which time such Confidentiality Agreement and the obligations
of Buyer under this  Section 7.13  shall terminate.  

7.14          Public
Announcements . Neither party to this Agreement shall make, or cause to be
made, any press release or public announcement in respect of this Agreement or
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or otherwise communicate with
any news media without the prior written consent of the other party unless
otherwise required by law or applicable stock exchange regulation, and the
parties to this Agreement shall cooperate as to the timing and contents of any
such press release, public announcement or communication.  

23  

7.15          Third
Party Beneficiaries . Except as specifically provided in  Article 7  of
this Agreement, neither this Agreement nor the transactions contemplated hereby
is intended to, and none of them shall, create any rights in any other person
other than the parties to this Agreement.  

[REMAINDER
OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]   

24  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Buyer and Seller have executed this Agreement on
the date first written above by their duly authorized officers.  

Buyer   

NBTY, INC., a Delaware corporation  

By:  

/s/ Irene Fisher  

Name:  

Irene Fisher  

Title:  

General Counsel  

Seller   

ZILA, INC., a Delaware corporation  

By:  

/s/ Gary K. Klinefelter   

Name:  

Gary K. Klinefelter   

Title:  

Vice-President, General Counsel   
  Secretary  

[Signature Page to
Stock Purchase Agreement]  

EXHIBIT A   

DEFINITIONS   

For
purposes of this Agreement, the Disclosure Letter and Exhibits thereto, the
following terms have the following meanings.  

AAA Rules      has the meaning set forth in  Section 1.2(d) . 

Accounts
Receivable      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 13 of  Exhibit
B . 

Acquisition
Proposal      means (i) any proposal or offer from any
Person relating to any direct or indirect acquisition of all or substantially
all of the assets, or all of the shares of capital stock, of the Company, taken
as a whole or (ii) any merger, consolidation, business combination,
recapitalization, liquidation, dissolution or similar transaction involving the
Company, other than the transactions contemplated by the Agreement. 

Affiliate      has the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 of the regulations promulgated
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

Agreement      has the meaning set forth in the preface of this Agreement. 

Applicable Laws      means all laws, regulations, ordinances and other restrictions of foreign,
federal, state, and local governments and agencies regulating or otherwise
affecting Seller, the Company or the Company Business, including, without
limitation, employee health and safety, the discharge of pollutants or wastes,
and employee benefit plans. 

Arbitrating
Accountant      has the meaning set forth in  Section
1.2(d) . 

Business
Combination      means any merger, consolidation or
combination to which the Company is a party, any sale, dividend, split or other
disposition of capital stock or other equity interest of the Company or any
sale, dividend or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets
and properties of the Company. 

Buyer      has the meaning set forth in the preface of this Agreement. 

Buyer Parties      has the meaning set forth in  Section 3.4 . 

Buyer s Advisors      has the meaning set forth in  Section 4.1 . 

Cap      has the meaning set forth in  Section 3.4(c) . 

Capital Leases      means (a) that certain Commercial Master Lease Agreement No. 834867,
effective as of January 25, 2006, by and between the Company and Trinity, A
Division of Bank of the West; (b) that certain Master Lease Agreement,
effective March 5, 2003, by and between the Company and General Electric
Capital Corporation; and (c) that certain Master Lease Agreement, dated as of
October 30, 2003, by and between the Company and Agilent Financial Services,
Inc. 

A-1  

Cleanup      has the meaning set forth within the definition of Environmental,
Health, and Safety Liabilities. 

Closing      has the meaning set forth in  Section 2.1 . 

Closing Date      has the meaning set forth in  Section 2.1 . 

Closing Date
Balance Sheet      has the meaning set forth in  Section
1.2(b) . 

Closing Date
Working Capital Statement      has the meaning set forth in  Section
1.2(c) . 

Closing Date
Purchase Price      has the meaning set forth in  Section 1.2(a) . 

Closing Working
Capital      means the current assets of the Company as of
the Closing Date (excluding all prepaid insurance amounts and similar amounts)
less all current liabilities (including without limitation the current portion
of the Capital Leases) of the Company as of the Closing Date, determined on a
basis consistent with the Financial Statements, which, in each case were
prepared in accordance with GAAP. 

Code      means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, and any reference
to any particular Code section shall be interpreted to include any revision of
or successor to that section regardless of how numbered or classified. 

Company      has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 

Company Business      has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 

Confidentiality
Agreement      has the meaning set forth in  Section 7.13 . 

Contingent
Purchase Price      has the meaning set forth in  Section
1.2(a) . 

Copyright      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 25(a) of  Exhibit B . 

Disclosure Letter      has the meaning set forth in  Section 3.1 . 

Earn Out Closing
Statement      has the meaning set forth in  Section
1.3(a) . 

EBITDA      shall mean, for any time period with respect to the Company Business,
an amount equal to the sum of each of the following, in each case for such
period, as determined in accordance with GAAP: (a) net income (or net loss),
excluding the aggregate amount of all non-cash losses reducing such net income,
plus (b) interest expense, plus (c) depreciation, plus (d) amortization, plus
(e) income taxes paid or accrued. 

EBITDA Target      has the meaning set forth in  Section 1.3 . 

Effective    Date     has
the meaning set forth in the preface of this Agreement.  

Employee Plans      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 19(a) of  Exhibit B . 

A-2  

Encumbrance      means any charge, claim, community property interest, condition,
equitable interest, lien, option, pledge, security interest, right of first
refusal, or restriction of any kind, including any restriction on use, voting,
transfer, receipt of income, or exercise of any other attribute of ownership. 

Environment      means soil, land surface or subsurface strata, surface waters
(including navigable waters, ocean waters, streams, ponds, drainage basins, and
wetlands), ground waters, drinking water supply, stream sediments, ambient air
(including indoor air), plant and animal life, and any other environmental
medium or natural resource. 

Environmental
Properties      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 22 of  Exhibit
B . 

Environmental,
Health, and Safety Liabilities      means any cost, damages, expense, liability,
obligation, or other responsibility arising from or under any Environmental Law
or Occupational Safety and Health Law including, without limitation, the
following: 

(a)                                     any environmental, health, or safety matters
or conditions (including on-site or off-site contamination, occupational safely
and health, and regulation of chemical substances or products); or 

(b)                                    fines, penalties, judgments, awards,
settlements, legal or administrative proceedings, damages, losses, claims,
demands and response, investigative, remedial, or inspection costs and expenses
arising under Environmental Law or Occupational Safety and Health Law; or 

(c)                                     financial responsibility under Environmental
Law or Occupational Safety and Health Law for cleanup costs or corrective
action, including any investigation, cleanup, removal, containment, or other
remediation or response actions (  Cleanup  ) required by applicable
Environmental Law or Occupational Safety and Health Law (whether or not such
Cleanup has been required or requested by any Governmental Body or any other
Person) and for any natural resource damages; or 

(d)                                    any other compliance, corrective,
investigative, or remedial measures required under Environmental Law or
Occupational Safety and Health Law. 

The
terms  removal,   remedial,  and  response action,  include the types of
activities covered by the United States Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C.   9601 et seq., as amended.  

Environmental    Law   means any legal requirement that requires
or relates to: 

(a)                                     advising appropriate authorities, employees,
and the public of intended or actual releases of pollutants or hazardous
substances or materials, violations of discharge limits, or other prohibitions
and of the commencements of activities, such as resource extraction or
construction, that could have significant impact on the Environment; or 

(b)                                    preventing or reducing to acceptable levels
the release of pollutants or hazardous substances or materials into the
Environment; or 

A-3  

(c)                                     reducing the quantities, preventing the release,
or minimizing the hazardous characteristics of wastes that are generated; or 

(d)                                    protecting resources, species, or ecological
amenities; or 

(e)                                     reducing to acceptable levels the risks
inherent in the transportation of hazardous substances, pollutants, oil, or
other potentially harmful substances; or 

(f)                                       cleaning up pollutants that have been
released, preventing the threat of release, or paying the costs of such clean
up or prevention; or 

(g)                                    making responsible parties pay private
parties, or groups of them, for damages done to their health or the
Environment, or permitting self-appointed representatives of the public
interest to recover for injuries done to public assets. 

ERISA      means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 or any successor
law, and regulations and rules issued pursuant to that Act or any successor
law. 

ERISA Affiliate      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 19(a) of  Exhibit B . 

ESPP      has the meaning set forth in  Section 4.13 . 

FFDC Act      shall have the meaning set forth in paragraph 14 of  Exhibit B . 

Facility      means any real property, leaseholds, or other real property interests
currently owned or operated by the Company and any buildings, plants or
structures currently owned or operated by the Company. 

Financial
Statements      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 5 of  Exhibit
B . 

GAAP   means generally accepted United States accounting
principles, applied on a basis consistent with the basis on which the Financial
Statements were prepared and have been prepared in the past.  

Governmental
Authorization      means any approval, consent, license, permit,
waiver, or other authorization issued, granted, given, or otherwise made
available by or under the authority of any Governmental Body or pursuant to any
legal requirement. 

Governmental Body      means any: 

(i)                                        nation, state, county, city, town, village,
district, or other jurisdiction of any nature; or 

(ii)                                     federal, state, local, municipal, foreign, or
other government; or 

(iii)                                  governmental or quasi-governmental authority
of any nature (including any governmental agency, branch, department, official,
or entity and any court or other tribunal); or 

A-4  

(iv)                                 multi-national organization or body; or 

(v)                                    body exercising, or entitled to exercise, any
administrative, executive, judicial, legislative, police, regulatory, or taxing
authority or power of any nature. 

Hazardous
Activity      means the distribution, generation, handling,
importing, management, manufacturing, processing, production, refinement,
Release, storage, transfer, transportation, treatment, or use (including any
withdrawal or other use of groundwater) of Hazardous Materials in, on, under,
about, or from the Facility or any part thereof into the Environment. 

Hazardous
Materials      means any waste or other substance that is
listed, defined, designated, or classified as, or otherwise determined to be,
hazardous, radioactive, or toxic or a pollutant or a contaminant under or
pursuant to any Environmental Law, including any admixture or solution thereof,
and specifically including petroleum and all derivatives thereof or synthetic
substitutes therefor and asbestos or asbestos-containing materials. 

Income Tax      means any federal, state, local, or foreign income tax, including any
interest, penalty, or addition thereto. 

Income Tax Return      means any Tax Return with respect to Income Taxes. 

Indemnified Party      has the meaning set forth in  Exhibit D . 

Indemnifying
Party      has the meaning set forth in  Exhibit D . 

Intellectual
Property Assets      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 25(a)
of  Exhibit B . 

IRS      means the United States Internal Revenue Service or any successor
agency, and to the extent relevant, the United States Department of the
Treasury. 

Knowledge      An individual will be deemed to have  Knowledge  of a particular fact
or other matter if (a) such individual is actually aware of such fact or other
matter or (b) a prudent individual could reasonably be expected to become aware
of such fact or other matter within the normal scope of such individual s
responsibilities with the Company, Seller or Buyer, as applicable, which scope
includes due inquiry relative to such individual s responsibilities. 

A
Person (other than an individual) will be deemed to have  Knowledge  of a
particular fact or other matter if any individual who is serving or who has
within the last two years served as a director, executive officer, partner,
executor, attorney (but only with respect to the matters set forth in paragraph
25 of  Exhibit B ) or trustee of such Person (or in any similar capacity)
has, or at any time had, Knowledge of such fact or other matter.  

Loss   or   Losses   means
any and all claims, liabilities, obligations, losses, fines, costs, royalties,
proceedings, deficiencies or damages (including incidental and consequential
damages).  

A-5  

Marks      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 25(a) of  Exhibit B . 

Material Adverse
Effect      or   Material Adverse Change     means any effect or change that
would be materially adverse to the results of operations or the financial
condition of the Company Business, taken as a whole, including without
limitation any insolvency or similar filing by the Seller;  provided, however,  that none of the following,
either alone or in combination, shall be deemed to constitute, and none of the
following shall be taken into account in determining whether there has been, a
Material Adverse Effect or Material Adverse Change: (a) any adverse change,
event, development, or effect arising from or relating to (1) general business
or economic conditions affecting the industry in which the Company Business
operates, including such conditions related to the Company Business unless the
Company Business is disproportionately affected by such changes, (2) national
or international political or social conditions, including the engagement by
the United States in hostilities, whether or not pursuant to the declaration of
a national emergency or war, or the occurrence of any military or terrorist
attack upon the United States, or any of its territories, possessions, or
diplomatic or consular offices or upon any military installation, equipment or
personnel of the United States, (3) financial, banking, or securities markets
(including any disruption thereof and any decline in the price of any security
or any market index), (4) changes in United States generally accepted
accounting principles, unless the Company Business is disproportionably
affected by such changes, (5) changes in laws, rules, regulations, orders, or
other binding directives issued by any governmental entity, unless the Company
Business is disproportionately affected by such changes or (6) the taking of
any action contemplated by this Agreement and the other agreements contemplated
hereby; (b) any existing event, occurrence, or circumstance that is set forth
in the Disclosure Letter, but only to the extent of such disclosure, it being
understood and agreed that a material adverse change beyond what is set forth
in the Disclosure Letter may constitute either alone or in combination, a
Material Adverse Effect or Material Adverse Change; and (c) any adverse change
in or effect on the Company Business that is cured by Seller or the Company
before the Closing Date. 

Material Contract      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 7 of  Exhibit B . 

Measurement
Period      has the meaning set forth in  Section
1.3(a) . 

Notice of
Objection      has the meaning set forth in  Section
1.2(d) . 

Occupational
Safety and Health Law      means any legal requirement designed to
provide safe and healthy working conditions and to reduce occupational safety
and health hazards, and any program, whether governmental or private (including
those promulgated or sponsored by industry associations and insurance companies),
designed to provide safe and healthy working conditions. 

Order      means any award, decision, injunction, judgment, order, ruling,
subpoena, or verdict entered, issued, made, or rendered by any court,
administrative agency, or other Governmental Body or by any arbitrator. 

Patent      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 25(a) of  Exhibit B . 

Permitted
Encumbrances      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 6 of  Exhibit
B . 

A-6  

Person      means any individual, corporation (including any non-profit
corporation), general or limited partnership, limited liability company, joint
venture, estate, trust, association, organization, labor union, or other entity
or Governmental Body. 

Pre-Closing Tax
Period      has the meaning set forth in  Section
6.1(b) . 

Proceeding      means any action, arbitration, audit, hearing, investigation,
litigation, or suit (whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative, or
informal) commenced, brought, conducted, or heard by or before, or otherwise
involving, any Governmental Body or arbitrator. 

Products      has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 

Proprietary
Rights Agreement      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 23(b)
of  Exhibit B . 

Proxy Statement      has the meaning set forth in  Section 4.3 . 

Purchase Price      has the meaning set forth in  Section 1.2(a) . 

Related Person      (a) with respect to a particular individual: 

(i)                                        each other member of such individual s Family
(as defined below); 

(ii)                                     any Person that is directly or indirectly
controlled by such individual or one or more members of such individual s
Family; 

(iii)                                  any Person in which such individual or
members of such individual s Family hold (individually or in the aggregate) a
Material Interest (as defined below); and 

(iv)                                 any Person with respect to which such
individual or one or more members of such individual s Family serves as a
director, officer, partner, executor, or trustee (or in a similar capacity). 

(b)                                    With respect to a specified Person other than
an individual, an Affiliate. 

For
purposes of this definition, (a) the  Family  of an individual includes (i) the
individual, (ii) the individual s spouse, (iii) any other natural person who is
related to the individual or the individual s spouse within the second degree,
and (iv) any other natural person who resides with such individual, and (b)  Material
Interest  means direct or indirect beneficial ownership (as defined in Rule
13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of voting securities or other
voting interests representing at least 5% of the outstanding voting power of a
Person or equity securities or other equity interests representing at least 5%
of the outstanding equity securities or equity interests in a Person.  

Release   means any spilling, leaking, emitting, discharging,
depositing, escaping, leaching, dumping, or other releasing into the
Environment, whether intentional or unintentional.  

Rights in Mask
Work      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 25(a)
of  Exhibit B . 

A-7  

SEC   means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Section
338(h)(10) Election      has the meaning set forth in  Section 6.8 . 

Securities Act      means the Securities Act of 1933 or any successor law, and regulations
and rules issued pursuant to that Act or any successor law. 

Seller      has the meaning set forth in the preface of this Agreement. 

Seller
Stockholders Meeting      has the meaning set forth in  Section 4.3 . 

Shares      has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 

Stockholder Approval      means the affirmative vote of the holders of outstanding shares of the
capital stock, and all option and warrant holders, if any, of Seller necessary
for the approval of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the
Transaction Documents. 

Straddle Period      has the meaning set forth in  Section 6.1(b) . 

Superior Proposal      means any Acquisition Proposal that the Seller s Board of Directors
determines, in its good faith judgment, to be more favorable to the Seller s
stockholders than the transactions completed by this Agreement. 

Target Working
Capital      shall mean $6,852,171 as set forth in the
Financial Statements dated February 28, 2006. 

Tax   any income, gross receipts, license, payroll,
employment, excise, severance, stamp, occupation, premium, property,
environmental, windfall profit, customs, vehicle, airplane, boat, vessel or
other title or registration, capital stock, franchise, employees  income
withholding, foreign or domestic withholding, social security, unemployment,
disability, real property, personal property, sales, use, transfer, value
added, alternative, add-on minimum and other tax, fee, assessment, levy,
tariff, charge or duty of any kind whatsoever and any interest, penalty,
addition or additional amount thereon imposed, assessed or collected by or
under the authority of any Governmental Body or payable under any tax-sharing
agreement or any other contract or as a successor or a transferee or pursuant
to Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.1502-6.  

Tax Return      means any return (including any information return), report, statement,
schedule, notice, form, or other document or information filed with or
submitted to, or required to be filed with or submitted to, any Governmental
Body in connection with the determination, assessment, collection, or payment
of any Tax or in connection with the administration, implementation, or
enforcement of or compliance with any legal requirement relating to any Tax. 

Threshold Amount      has the meaning set forth in  Section 3.4(c) . 

Threat of Release      means a substantial likelihood of a Release that may require action in
order to prevent or mitigate damage to the Environment that may result from
such Release. 

Trade Secrets      has the meaning set forth in paragraph 25(a) of  Exhibit B . 

A-8  

Transaction
Documents      shall mean that certain non-compete agreement
with Seller and the Buyer dated as of the Closing Date, substantially in the
form of  Exhibit G  hereto. 

[REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]   

A-9  

EXHIBIT B   

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF SELLER   

The
Seller represents and warrants to Buyer, as of the date hereof, or if a
representation or warranty is made as of a specific date as of such date and as
of the Closing Date, as follows:  

1.                                           Organization; Qualification . 

(a)                                     Seller is a corporation duly organized,
validly existing, and in good standing under the laws of the state of Delaware,
and has the requisite corporate power and authority to own and operate its
properties and to carry on its business as now conducted. The Company is a
corporation duly organized, validly existing, and in good standing under the
laws of the state of Arizona, and has full corporate power and authority to own
and operate its properties and to carry on its business (including the Company
Business) and to perform all of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Transaction Documents. The Disclosure Letter lists all lines of business in
which the Company is participating or engaged. The Company is duly qualified to
do business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing under the laws of
each state or other jurisdiction specified in the Disclosure Letter, which are
the only jurisdictions in which either the ownership or use of the properties
owned or used by the Company, or the nature of the activities conducted by it,
requires such qualification. The name of each director and officer of the
Company on the date hereof and the position with the Company held by each, are
listed in the Disclosure Letter. 

(b)                                    Seller has delivered to Buyer true and
complete copies of the incorporation documents of the Company, as in effect on
the date hereof. 

2.                                           Authority Relative to this Agreement . The Seller has the requisite corporate power
and authority to enter into this Agreement and the Transaction Documents and to
carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the
transactions contemplated hereby and thereby including, without limitation, to
own, hold, sell and transfer (pursuant to the Agreement) the Shares. The
execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Transaction Documents by
Seller and the consummation by Seller of the transactions contemplated hereby
and thereby have been duly and validly authorized by the Board of Directors and
stockholders of Seller, and no other proceedings on the part of Seller or its
stockholders are necessary. This Agreement and the Transaction Documents have
been duly and validly executed and delivered by Seller, and constitute the
legal, valid and binding obligations of Seller, enforceable against the Seller
in accordance with their respective terms. 

3.                                           No Conflicts . Neither the Seller nor the Company is
subject to, or obligated under, any provision of (a) their Certificate or
Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, or other organizational documents, (b)
except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter, any agreement, arrangement, or
understanding, (c) any license, franchise, or permit, or (d) any Applicable Law
that would be breached, defaulted (with or without notice or lapse of time or
both) or violated or in conflict with, or in respect of which a right of
termination or acceleration or any other right would arise, or pursuant to
which any Encumbrance on any of the Company Business or 

B-1  

Company assets would be
created, by its execution, delivery, and performance of this Agreement or the
Transaction Documents and the consummation by either of them of the
transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.  

4.                                            No Consents . Except (a) as set forth in the Disclosure Letter, (b) for the filing
with the SEC of the Proxy Statement in definitive form, and other filings
required under, and in compliance with the applicable requirements of, the Exchange
Act, and (c) with respect to the Stockholder Approval, no authorization,
notice, consent, action or approval of, or filing with, any Governmental Body
or any Person is necessary on the part of Seller or Company for the execution,
delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Transaction Documents or the
consummation by Seller of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or
the Transaction Documents. 

5.                                           Financial Statements . The unaudited balance sheet, income
statement, statement of cash flows and statement of stockholders equity of the
Company as of and for the years ended July 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and as of
and for the nine (9) months ended April 30, 2006 (collectively, the   Financial
Statements  )   are
attached to the Disclosure Letter. The Financial Statements have been prepared
in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods
involved and fairly present the financial position of the Company as of the
dates thereof and the results of its operations, changes in stockholder s
equity and cash flow for the periods then ended; provided, however, that such
interim Financial Statements are subject to normal year-end adjustments and
lack footnotes and other presentation items. The Financial Statements were
compiled from books and records of the Company regularly maintained by
management and used to prepare financial statements of the Company in
accordance with principles stated therein. The Company has maintained the books
and records in a manner sufficient to permit the preparation of financial
statements in accordance with GAAP, such books and records fairly reflect, in
all material respects, the income, expenses, assets and liabilities of the
Company and the books and records provided a fair and accurate basis for the
preparation of the Financial Statements. 

6.                                           Title to the Company Business; Encumbrances;
Sufficiency of Assets .
Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter, the Company is in possession of
and has good and marketable title to, or has a valid leasehold interest in or
valid rights under a contract to use, and owns all the properties and assets
(whether real, personal, or mixed and whether tangible or intangible) that it
purports to own, whether located in any Facility or otherwise, that are used in
or are necessary for the conduct of the Company Business, as historically
conducted, reflected as owned in the books and records of the Company,
including all of the properties and assets reflected in the Financial
Statements. All properties and assets reflected in the Financial Statements are
free and clear of all Encumbrances, except for: (a) Encumbrances for current
taxes not yet due, and (b) with respect to real property, except as set forth
on the Disclosure Letter, (i) minor imperfections of title, if any, none of
which is substantial in amount, materially detracts from the value or impairs
the use of the property subject thereto, or impairs the operations of the
Company, and (ii) zoning laws and other land use restrictions that do not
impair the present or anticipated use of the property subject thereto
(collectively, the   Permitted Encumbrances  ) .  

B-2  

7.                                           Contracts; No Defaults . 

(a)                                     The Disclosure Letter sets forth a listing
(including names of parties and date of agreement) of all contracts, agreements
and other verbal arrangements to which the Company is a party or the Seller is
a party and the agreement or arrangement relates to the Company Business and
the performance of which will involve consideration in excess of $50,000 or
cannot be terminated on 60 days or less notice (each, a   Material Contract  ) .  Material Contracts shall include
all distribution agreements, license agreements, partnership, joint venture,
shareholder and non-compete agreements with the Company and a third party or
with the Seller and a third party relating to the Company Business. Seller has
delivered to Buyer a correct and complete copy of each Material Contract listed
in the Disclosure Letter. 

(b)                                    Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter: 

(i)                                        Seller has not acquired any rights under, and
Seller has not become subject to any obligation or liability under, any
Material Contract that relates to the Company Business, or any of the assets
owned or used by, the Company; and 

(ii)                                     No officer, director, agent, employee,
consultant, or contractor of the Company is bound by any Material Contract that
purports to limit the ability of such officer, director, agent, employee,
consultant, or contractor to (A) engage in or continue any conduct, activity,
or practice relating to the Company Business, or (B) assign to the Company or
to any other Person any rights to any invention, improvement, or discovery or
any other asset of the Company. 

(c)                                     Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter,
each Material Contract identified or required to be identified in the
Disclosure Letter is in full force and effect and is valid and enforceable in
accordance with its terms. 

(d)                                    Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter: 

(i)                                        the Seller and the Company are, and at all
times since August 1, 2002 have been, in full compliance with all applicable
terms and requirements of each Material Contract under which the Company has or
had any obligation or liability or by which the Company or any of the assets
owned or used by the Company is or was bound; 

(ii)                                     each other Person that has or had any
obligation or liability under any Material Contract under which the Company has
or had any rights is, and at times since August 1, 2002 has been, in full
compliance with all applicable terms and requirement of such Material Contract; 

(iii)                                  no event has occurred or circumstance exists
that (with or without notice or lapse of time) may contravene, conflict with,
or result in a violation or breach of, or give the Company or other Person the
right to declare a default or exercise any remedy under, or to accelerate the
maturity or performance of, or to cancel, terminate, or modify, any Material
Contract; and 

B-3  

(iv)                                 the Company has not given to or received from
any other Person, in writing at any time since December 1, 2004, any written
notice regarding any actual, alleged, possible, or potential violation or
breach of, or default under, any Material Contract. 

(e)                                     The Company is not renegotiating and has not
been requested by any Person to renegotiate any material amounts paid or
payable to the Company under any current Material Contracts and no such Person
has made written demand for such renegotiation. 

(f)                                       The contracts relating to
the sale, design, manufacture, or provision of products or services by the
Company have been entered into by the Company in the ordinary course of
business and have been entered into without the commission of any act alone or
in concert with any other Person, or any consideration having been paid or
promised, that is or would be in violation of any legal requirement. 

(g)                                    The Company has no
obligations under or with respect to the ESPP. 

8.                                           Tax Matters . Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter: 

(a)                                     The Company has timely filed all Tax Returns
required to be filed on or before the date hereof and the Closing Date. The
Company has paid all Taxes owed (whether or not shown, or required to be shown,
on Tax Returns) on or before the date hereof and the Closing Date. The Company
has withheld and paid all Taxes required to have been withheld and paid in
connection with amounts paid or owing to any employee, independent contractor,
creditor, stockholder, or other third party. All Tax Returns filed by the Company
were complete and correct in all respects, and such Tax Returns correctly
reflected the facts regarding the income, business, assets, operations,
activities, status and other matters of the Company and any other information
required to be shown thereon. There are no liens for Taxes upon any of the
Company s assets, other than liens for Taxes not yet due and payable. 

(b)                                    None of the Tax Returns filed by the Company
or Taxes payable by the Company have been the subject of an audit, action,
suit, proceeding, claim, examination, deficiency or assessment by any
governmental authority, and no such audit, action, suit, proceeding, claim,
examination, deficiency or assessment is currently pending or, to the knowledge
of the Company, threatened. 

(c)                                     The Company is not currently the beneficiary
of any extension of time within which to file any Tax Return, and the Company
has not waived any statute of limitation with respect to any Tax or agreed to
any extension of time with respect to a Tax assessment or deficiency. All
material elections with respect to Taxes affecting the Company, as of the date
hereof, are set forth in the Disclosure Letter. The Company is not subject to,
nor has applied for any private letter ruling of the Internal Revenue Service
or comparable rulings of any Taxing Authority. Neither the Company nor any
other Person on its behalf has granted to any Person any power of attorney that
is currently in force with respect to any Company Tax matter. 

B-4  

(d)                                    The Company will not be required to include
any item of income in, or exclude any item of deduction from, taxable income
for any taxable period (or portion thereof) ending after the Closing Date as a
result of any (A) change in method of accounting for a taxable period ending on
or prior to the Closing Date, (B)  closing agreement  as described in Section
7121 of the Code (or any corresponding or similar provision of state, local or
foreign Tax law) executed on or prior to the Closing Date, (C) intercompany
transaction or excess loss account described in United States Treasury
Regulations under Section 1502 of the Code (or any corresponding or similar
provision of state, local, or non-U.S. Tax law), (D) installment sale or open
transaction made on or prior to the Closing Date, or (E) prepaid amount
received on or prior to the Closing Date. 

(e)                                     The Company is not a party to any agreement,
contract, arrangement or plan that has resulted or would result, separately or
in the aggregate, in the payment of (i) any  excess parachute payments  within
the meaning of Section 280G of the Code (without regard to the exceptions set
forth in Sections 280G(b)(4) and 280G(b)(5) of the Code) or (ii) any amount for
which a deduction would be disallowed or deferred under Section 162(m) of the
Code. 

(f)                                       The Company has not filed a consent pursuant
to Section 341(f) of the Code, relating to collapsible corporations and Section
341(f)(2) does not apply to any of the Company s assets. The Company is not,
and has not been, a U.S. real property holding company (as defined in Section
897(c)(2) of the Code) during the applicable period specified in Section
897(c)(l)(A)(ii), of the Code. The Company does not own, and has not owned, any
assets that it owned prior to August 10, 1993 that are  Section 197 Intangibles 
within the meaning of Section 197 of the Code. 

(g)                                    The Company did not constitute either a  distributing
corporation  or a  controlled corporation  (within the meaning of Section
355(a)(1)(A) of the Code) in a distribution of stock qualifying for tax-free
treatment under Section 355 of the Code (A) in the two (2) years prior to the date of this Agreement or (B) in a distribution which could
otherwise constitute part of a  plan  or  series of related transactions 
(within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code) in conjunction with the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement. 

(h)                                    The Company does not have any net operating
losses or other tax attributes presently subject to limitation under Sections
382, 383 or 384 of the Code, or the federal consolidated return regulations
(other than limitations imposed as a result of the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement). The Company has never (i) made an election under Section 1362
of the Code to be treated as an S corporation for federal income tax purposes
or (ii) made a similar election under any comparable provision of any state,
local or non-U.S. Tax law. 

(i)                                        The Company is not a party to any Tax sharing
agreement or similar arrangement (including, but not limited to, an
indemnification agreement or arrangement). Except as set forth in the
Disclosure Letter, the Company has never been a member of a group filing a
consolidated federal income Tax Return or a combined, consolidated, unitary or
other affiliated group Tax Return for state, local or non-U.S. Tax 

B-5  

purposes
(other than a group the common parent of which is the Company). The Company
does not have any liability for the Taxes of any Person (other than the Company)
under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6 (or any corresponding provision of
state, local or non-U. S. Tax law), or as a transferee or successor, or by
contract, or otherwise.  

(j)                                        The unpaid Taxes of the Company does not
exceed the reserve for actual Taxes (as opposed to any reserve for deferred
Taxes established to reflect timing differences between book and Tax income)
and will not exceed such reserve as adjusted for the passage of time through
the Closing Date in accordance with the reasonable past custom and practice of
the Company in filing Tax Returns. The Company will not incur any liability for
Taxes from February 28, 2006 through the Closing Date other than in the
ordinary course of business and consistent with reasonable past practice. 

(k)                                     The Disclosure Letter contains a list of all
jurisdictions (whether foreign or domestic) to which any Tax is properly
payable by the Company. No claim has ever been made by a government authority
in a jurisdiction where the Company does not file Tax Returns that the Company
is or may be subject to Tax in that jurisdiction. The Company does not have,
nor has ever had, a permanent establishment or other taxable presence in any
foreign country, as determined pursuant to applicable foreign law and any applicable
Tax treaty or convention between the United States and such foreign country. 

(1)                                     The Company has not (i) participated or
engaged in any transaction, or taken any Tax Return position, described in
Treasury Regulation Section 301.6111 -2(b)(2) (or any corresponding or similar
provision of state, local or non-U.S. Tax law) or (ii) participated or engaged
in any  reportable transaction  within the meaning of Treasury Regulation
Section 1.6011-4 (or any corresponding or similar provision of state, local or
non-U.S. Tax law). 

(m)                                  The Company is not and has never been a party
to a transaction or agreement that is in conflict with the Tax rules on
transfer pricing in any relevant jurisdiction and all transactions and
agreements (whether written or oral) between or among the Company and any
Related Person (or any of their Affiliates) and/or the terms thereof have been
conducted in an arm s length manner consistent with the Company s transactions
or agreements with unrelated third parties. 

9.                                             Litigation . Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter, there are no suits,
claims, actions, arbitrations, investigations, or proceedings entered against,
now pending, or to the Knowledge of Seller threatened against the Company, or
against the Seller relating to the Company Business, before any court,
arbitration, administrative or regulatory body, or any governmental agency.
There are no facts or circumstances known to Seller that could reasonably be
expected to give rise to any Proceeding that would be required to be disclosed
pursuant to this Paragraph 9. Neither Seller nor the Company is subject to any
continuing court or administrative order, writ, injunction, or decree that is
applicable to the Company or the Company Business, or to the Company s property
or employees, and neither Seller nor the Company is in default with respect to
any order, writ, injunction, or decree of any court or federal, state,
municipal, or other 

B-6  

governmental department,
commission, board, agency, or instrumentality relating to the Company or the
Company Business.  

10.                                     Brokers  Fees . Neither Seller nor any Affiliate has dealt
with any broker, finder, or other person or entity entitled to any brokerage
commissions, finders  fees, or similar compensation in connection with the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement that could give rise to liability
on the part of the Company. 

11.                                     Capitalization; Ownership of Shares;
Subsidiaries . (a) The
authorized capital stock of the Company consists solely of one hundred (100)
shares of Common Stock, $0.01 par value, of which only the Shares have been
issued. The Shares are duly authorized, validly issued and outstanding, fully
paid and nonassessable and were not issued in violation of any preemptive rights.
There are no options, warrants, convertible securities or other rights,
agreements, arrangements or commitments relating to the Shares or the Company
or obligating either the Seller or the Company to issue or sell any shares of
Common Stock, or any other interest in, the Company. There are no rights to
receive or exercise any benefit or right similar to any right enjoyed by or
accruing to the holder of shares of capital stock of the Company that are held
by anyone other than the Seller, including any rights to participate in the
equity or income of the Company or to participate in or direct the election of
any officers or directors of the Company or the manner in which any shares of
capital stock of the Company are voted. The Shares constitute all the issued
and outstanding capital stock of the Company and are owned of record and
beneficially by the Seller free and clear of all Encumbrances, except as set
forth in the Disclosure Letter. There are no contracts relating to the
issuance, sale, or transfer of any equity securities or other securities of the
Company. The Seller has not caused the Company to issue or sell, and the
Company (or any of its predecessors) has not issued or sold any equity or other
securities in violation of the Securities Act or any other legal requirement.
The Company does not own, or have any contract to acquire, any equity
securities or other securities of any Person or any direct or indirect equity
or ownership interest in any other business. 

(b)                                    The delivery of a certificate or certificates
at the Closing evidencing the Shares in the manner provided in  Section 2.2 
will transfer to Buyer good and valid title to the Shares, free and clear of
all Encumbrances. 

(c)                                     The Company has no subsidiaries. 

12.                                     Condition and Sufficiency of Assets . The buildings, plants, structures, and
equipment of the Company Business are structurally sound, are in good operating
condition and repair, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and are adequate for the
uses to which they are being put, and none of such buildings, plants,
structures, or equipment is in need of maintenance or repairs except for
ordinary, routine maintenance and repairs that are not material in nature or
cost. The building, plants, structures, and equipment of the Company are
sufficient for the continued conduct of the Company Business after the Closing
in substantially the same manner as conducted prior to the Closing. No assets
of the Seller are used or held for use in the Company Business. 

13.                                     Accounts Receivable . All accounts receivable of the Company that
are reflected on the Financial Statements or the Closing Date Balance Sheet
(collectively, the   Accounts  

B-7  

Receivable   )   represent or will represent obligations
arising from sales actually made or services actually performed in the ordinary
course of business. Unless paid prior to the Closing Date, the Accounts
Receivable are or will be as of the Closing Date current and collectible net of
the respective reserves for bad debts, returns and allowances (which reserves
are adequate and calculated consistent with past practice and, in the case of
the reserve as of the Closing Date, will not represent a greater percentage of
the Accounts Receivable as of the Closing Date than the reserve reflected in
Financial Statements represented of the Accounts Receivable reflected therein
and will not represent a Material Adverse Change in the composition of such
Accounts Receivable in terms of aging). Subject to such reserves and except as
set forth in the Disclosure Letter, each of the Accounts Receivable either has
been or will be collected in full, without any set-off, within ninety (90) days
after the day on which it first becomes due and payable. There is no pending,
or to the Seller s Knowledge, threatened contest, claim, or right of set-off,
other than returns in the ordinary course of business, pending, or to the
Seller s Knowledge threatened, under any Material Contract with any obligor of
an Accounts Receivable relating to the amount or validity of such Accounts
Receivable. 

14.                                     Inventory . All inventory of the Company, whether or not reflected in the
Financial Statements, consists of a quality and quantity usable and salable in
the ordinary course of business, except for obsolete items and items of
below-standard quality, all of which have been written off or written down to
net realizable value in the Financial Statements or on the accounting records
of the Company as of the Closing Date, as the case may be. All inventories not
written off have been priced at the lower of cost or market on a first in,
first out basis. The quantities of each item of inventory (whether raw
materials, work-in-process, or finished goods) are not excessive, but are
reasonable in the present circumstances of the Company Business. To Seller s
Knowledge, the raw materials, food, herbal and dietary supplements of the
Company (i) are not adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of the Federal
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended (  FFDC Act  ), or
within the meaning of any Applicable Law within which the definitions of
adulteration or misbranding are substantially the same as those contained in
the FFDC Act; and (ii) are not articles which may not, under the provisions of
Sections 404, 405 and 512 of the FFDC Act, be introduced into interstate
commerce. 

15.                                     No Undisclosed Liabilities . The Company has no indebtedness or
liabilities or obligations of any nature (whether known or unknown and whether
absolute, accrued, contingent, or otherwise) except for liabilities or obligations
(a) reflected or reserved against in the Financial Statements or Closing Date
Balance Sheet; (b) incurred in the ordinary course of business consistent with
past practices since the respective dates thereof or (c) set forth in the
Disclosure Letter. 

16.                                     Books and Records . Except as set forth on the Disclosure
Letter, the books of account, minute books, stock record books, and other
records of the Company, including, without limitation, Seller s records of its
acquisition of the Company, all of which have been made available to Buyer
prior to the date hereof, are complete and correct, and have been maintained in
accordance with commercially reasonable business practices and reflect the
current ownership of the Shares. The minute books and similar records of the
Company contain accurate and complete records of all meetings held of, and
corporate action taken by, the stockholder, the Board of Directors, and
committees of the Board of Directors of the Company, and no meeting of any such
stockholder, Board of Directors, or committee has been held for 

B-8  

which minutes have not been
prepared and are not contained in such minute books. At the Closing, all of
those books and records will be in the possession of the Company. The Company
does not have any of its books and records recorded, stored, maintained,
operated or otherwise wholly or partly dependent upon or held by any means
(including any electronic, mechanical or photographic process, whether computerized
or not) which (including all means of access thereto and therefrom) are not
under the exclusive ownership and direct control of the Company.  

17.                                     No Material Adverse Change . Since August 1, 2005, there has not been
any Material Adverse Change in the business, operations, properties, prospects,
assets, or condition of the Company, and no event has occurred or circumstance
exists that may result in such a Material Adverse Change. 

18.                                     Insurance . The Disclosure Letter contains a true and complete list (including
the names and addresses of the insurers, the names of the Persons to whom such
Policies have been issued, the expiration dates thereof, whether it is a  claims
made  or an  occurrence  policy and a brief description of the interest insured
thereby) of all liability, property, workers  compensation, directors  and
officers  liability and other insurance policies currently in effect that
insure the Company Business, operations or employees of the Company or affect
or relate to the ownership, use or operation of the Company Business and that
have been issued to the Company or any Person (other than the Company) for the
benefit of the Company. Except as set forth on the Disclosure Letter, the
insurance coverage provided by any of the policies described above will not
terminate or lapse prior to the Closing Date by reason of the transactions
contemplated by the Agreement. Each policy listed in the Disclosure Letter is a
valid and binding and in full force and effect, no premiums due thereunder have
not been paid and neither the Company nor the Person to whom such policy has
been issued has received any notice of cancellation or termination in respect
of any such policy or is in default thereunder. The insurance policies listed
in the Disclosure Letter are placed with financially sound and reputable
insurers and, in light of the respective business, operations and the Company
Business, are in amounts and have coverages that are reasonable and customary
for Persons engaged in businesses and operations similar to the Company
Business. Neither the Company nor the Person to whom such policy has been
issued has received notice that any insurer under any policy referred to in
this Section is denying liability with respect to a claim thereunder or
defending under a reservation of rights clause. 

19.                                     Employee Benefits . 

(a)                                     Set forth in the Disclosure Letter is a
complete and correct list of all  employee benefit plans  as defined by Section
3(3) of ERISA, all specified fringe benefit plans as defined in Section 6039D
of the Code, and all other bonus, incentive-compensation,
deferred-compensation, profit-sharing, stock-option, stock-appreciation-right,
stock-bonus, stock-purchase, employee-stock-ownership, savings, severance,
change-in-control, supplemental-unemployment, layoff, salary-continuation,
retirement, pension, health, life-insurance, disability, accident,
group-insurance, vacation, holiday, sick-leave, fringe-benefit or welfare plan,
and any other employee compensation or benefit plan, agreement, policy, practice,
commitment, contract or understanding (whether qualified or nonqualified,
written or unwritten) and any trust, escrow or other agreement related thereto
that is maintained or contributed to by the Seller with respect to 

B-9  

the
Company, the Company or any other corporation or trade or business controlled
by, controlling or under common control with the Company (within the meaning of
Section 414 of the Code or Section 4001(a)(14) or 4001(b) of ERISA) (  ERISA
Affiliate  ),   or
with respect to which Company or any ERISA Affiliate has or may have any
liability, and provides benefits, or describes policies or procedures
applicable to any current or former director, officer, employee or service
provider of the Company, or the dependents of any thereof, (collectively the   Employee
Plans  ) .   

(b)                                    The Company has delivered to Buyer true,
accurate and complete copies of (i) the documents comprising each Employee Plan
(or, with respect to any Employee Plan which is unwritten, a detailed written
description of eligibility, participation, benefits, funding arrangements,
assets and any other matters which relate to the obligations of Company or any
ERISA Affiliate); (ii) all trust agreements, insurance contracts or any other
funding instruments related to the Employee Plans; (iii) the most recent
actuarial and financial reports (audited and/or unaudited) and the annual
reports filed with any Government Body with respect to the Employee Plans
during the current year and each of the three preceding years; (iv) all
collective bargaining agreements pursuant to which contributions to any
Employee Plan(s) have been made or obligations incurred (including both pension
and welfare benefits) by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate, and all collective
bargaining agreements pursuant to which contributions are being made or
obligations are owed by such entities: (v) all securities registration
statements filed with respect to any Employee Plan; (vi) all contracts with
third-party administrators, actuaries, investment managers, consultants and
other independent contractors that relate to any Employee Plan; (vii) all
summary plan descriptions, summaries of material modifications and memoranda,
employee handbooks and other written communications regarding the Employee
Plans; and (viii) the most recent IRS determination letter with respect to each
Employee Plan. 

(c)                                     No Employee Plan is a plan subject to Title
IV of ERISA or the minimum funding requirements of Section 302 of ERISA or 412
of the Code, nor has the Company or any subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate
during each year within the six (6) year period preceding the Closing Date,
maintained or contributed to a plan subject to Title IV of ERISA. No Employee
Plan is a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA. 

(d)                                    The Company has, at all times, complied, and
currently complies, in all material respects with the applicable continuation
requirements for its welfare benefit plans, including (1) Section 4980B of the
Code (as well as its predecessor provision, Section 162(k) of the Code) and
Sections 601 through 608, inclusive, of ERISA, which provisions are hereinafter
referred to collectively as  COBRA  and (2) any applicable state statutes
mandating health insurance continuation coverage for employees. 

(e)                                     All contributions (including all employer
contributions and employee salary reduction contributions) and other payments
required by and due from the Company under the terms of each Employee Plan have
been made within the time periods prescribed by the Employee Plan, ERISA and
the Code. 

B-10  

(f)                                       Neither the Seller nor the Company has filed,
or is considering filing, an application under the Internal Revenue Service s
Employee Plans Compliance Resolution System or the Department of Labor s
Voluntary Fiduciary Correction Program with respect to any Employee Plan. No
condition or circumstance exists that would prevent the amendment or
termination of any Employee Plan without liability to the Company. Neither the
Seller nor the Company has announced any plan or made any legally binding
commitment to create any additional Employee Plans or to amend or modify any
existing Employee Plans. 

(g)                                    The form of all Employee Plans is in
compliance with the applicable terms of ERISA, the Code, and any other
Applicable Laws, including the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the
Family Medical Leave Act of 1993 and the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996, and such plans have been operated in compliance
with such laws and the written Employee Plan documents. Neither the Company nor
any fiduciary of an Employee Plan has violated the requirements of Section 404
of ERISA. All required reports and descriptions of the Employee Plans
(including Internal Revenue Service Form 5500 Annual Reports, Summary Annual
Reports and Summary Plan Descriptions and Summaries of Material Modifications)
have been (when required) timely filed with the IRS, the U.S. Department of
Labor or other Governmental Body and distributed as required, and all notices
required by ERISA or the Code or any other legal requirement with respect to
the Employee Plans have been appropriately given. 

(h)                                    Each Employee Plan that is intended to be
qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable
determination letter from the IRS (which determination letter takes into
account the Plan s amendment for tax law changes commonly known as  GUST ), and
the Company has no Knowledge of any circumstances that will or could result in
revocation of any such favorable determination letter. Each trust created under
any Employee Plan has been determined to be exempt from taxation under Section
501(a) of the Code, and the Company is not aware of any circumstance that will or
could result in a revocation of such exemption and each such Employee Plan has
been timely amended for tax law changes commonly known as  EGTRRA.  

(i)                                        There is no material pending or threatened
Proceeding relating to any Employee Plan, nor is there any basis for any such
Proceeding. Neither the Company nor any fiduciary of an Employee Plan has
engaged in a transaction with respect to any Employee Plan that, assuming the
taxable period of such transaction expired as of the date hereof, could subject
Company or Buyer to a Tax or penalty imposed by either Section 4975 of the Code
or Section 502(1) of ERISA or a violation of Section 406 of ERISA. The
transactions contemplated hereunder will not result in the potential assessment
of a Tax or penalty under Section 4975 of the Code or Section 502(1) of ERISA
nor result in a violation of Section 406 of ERISA. 

B-11  

20.                                     Compliance with Legal   Requirements  ; Governmental Authorizations . 

(a)                                     Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter: 

(i)                                        The Company and the Company Business are, and
at all times since August 1, 2002 have been, in full compliance in all material
respects with each legal requirement that is or was applicable to the Company
or to the conduct or operation of the Company Business or the ownership or use
of any of the Company s assets; 

(ii)                                     no event has occurred or circumstance exists
that (with or without notice or lapse of time) (A) constitutes or results in a
violation by the Company or Seller with respect to the Company Business of, or
a failure on the part of the Company or Seller with respect to the Company
Business to comply with, any legal requirement, or (B) may give rise to any
obligation on the part of the Company or any other Person with respect to the
Company Business to undertake, or to bear all or any portion of the cost of,
any remedial action of any nature; and 

(iii)                                  neither the Seller nor the Company has
received, at any time since December 1, 2004, any written notice from any
Governmental Body or any other Person regarding (A) any actual, alleged,
possible, or potential violation of, or failure to comply with, any legal
requirement applicable to the Company Business, or (B) any actual, alleged,
possible, or potential obligation on the part of the Company or any other
Person with respect to the Company Business to undertake, or to bear all or any
portion of the cost of, any remedial action of any nature. 

(b)                                    The Disclosure Letter contains a complete and
accurate list of each Governmental Authorization that is held by the Company or
relates to any of the assets owned or used by, the Company and/or the Company
Business. Each Governmental Authorization listed or required to be listed in
the Disclosure Letter is valid and in full force and effect and will not be
revoked, withdrawn, suspended, cancelled, terminated or modified as a result of
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Except as set forth in the
Disclosure Letter: 

(i)                                        The Company and the Company Business are, and
at all times since August 1, 2002 have been, in full compliance in all material
respects with all of the terms and requirements of each Governmental
Authorization identified or required to be identified in the Disclosure Letter; 

(ii)                                     no event has occurred or circumstance exists
that may (with or without notice or lapse of time) (A) constitute or result
directly or indirectly in a violation by the Company or the Company Business of
or a failure by the Company or the Company Business to comply with any term or
requirement of any Governmental Authorization listed or required to be listed
in the Disclosure Letter, or (B) result directly or indirectly in the
revocation, withdrawal, suspension, cancellation, or termination of, or any
modification to, any 

B-12  

Governmental
Authorization listed or required to be listed in the Disclosure Letter;  

(iii)                                  Neither the Seller nor the Company has
received, at any time since December 1, 2004, any written notice from any
Governmental Body or any other Person regarding (A) any actual, alleged,
possible, or potential violation of or failure by the Company or the Company
Business to comply with any term or requirement of any Governmental
Authorization, or (B) any actual, proposed, possible, or potential revocation,
withdrawal, suspension, cancellation, termination of, or modification to any
Governmental Authorization listed or required to be listed on the Disclosure
Letter; and 

(iv)                                 all applications required to have been filed
for the renewal of the Governmental Authorizations listed or required to be
listed in the Disclosure Letter have been duly filed on a timely basis with the
appropriate Governmental Bodies, and all other filings required to have been
made with respect to such Governmental Authorizations have been duly made on a
timely basis with the appropriate Governmental Bodies. 

The
Governmental Authorizations listed in the Disclosure Letter collectively
constitute all of the Governmental Authorizations reasonably necessary to
permit the Company to lawfully conduct and operate the Company Business in the
manner conducted and operated and to permit the Company to own and use its
assets in the manner in which it currently owns and uses such assets.  

21.                                     Absence of Certain Changes and Events . Except as set forth in the Disclosure
Letter and for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, since August 1,
2005, the Company has conducted the Company Business only in the ordinary
course of business and consistent with past practice and without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, there has not been any: 

(a)                                     change in the Company s authorized or issued
capital stock; grant of any stock option or right to purchase shares of capital
stock of the Company; issuance of any security convertible into such capital
stock; grant of any registration rights; purchase, redemption, retirement, or
other acquisition by the Company of any shares of any such capital stock; or
declaration or payment of any dividend or other distribution or payment in respect
of shares of capital stock; or 

(b)                                    amendment to the organizational documents of
the Company; or 

(c)                                     except in the ordinary course of business
consistent with past practice, payment or increase by the Company of any
bonuses, salaries, or other compensation to any stockholder, director, officer,
or (except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice)
employee or entry into any employment, severance, or similar contract with any
director, officer, or employee; or 

B-13  

(d)                                    adoption of, or increase in the payments to
or benefits under, any profit sharing, bonus, deferred compensation, savings,
insurance, pension, retirement, or other employee benefit plan for or with any
employees of the Company; or 

(e)                                     damage to or destruction or loss of any asset
or property of the Company, whether or not covered by insurance, in excess of
$50,000; or 

(f)                                       entry into, termination of, or receipt of
notice of termination of (i) any license, distributorship, dealer, sales
representative, joint venture, credit, or similar agreement, or (ii) any
contract or transaction involving a total remaining commitment by or to the
Company of at least $50,000; or 

(g)                                    sale (other than sales of inventory in the
ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), lease, or other
disposition of any asset or property of the Company or mortgage, pledge, or
imposition of any Encumbrance or other encumbrance on any material asset or
property of the Company, including the sale, lease, or other disposition of any
of the Intellectual Property Assets, in excess of $50,000; or 

(h)                                    cancellation or waiver of any claims or
rights with a value to the Company in excess of $50,000; or 

(i)                                        material change in the accounting methods
used by the Company; or 

(j)                                        any material change in (x) pricing,
discounts, investment or inventory policy of the Company or (y) any method of
calculating bad debt or other reserves of the Company; or 

(k)                                     any new license agreement for Trademarks or
Patents; or 

(1)                                     any promotion or credit or similar incentive
granted to customers in excess of $25,000 per customer; or 

(m)                                  capital expenditures in excess of $50,000; or 

(n)                                    transaction with Affiliates; or 

(o)                                    agreement, whether oral or written, by the Company
to do any of the foregoing. 

In
addition, except in connection with the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, since April 17, 2006 there has not been any material election made
in respect of Taxes or any material change in any existing election, adoption
or change of any accounting method in respect of Taxes or otherwise, entering
into any closing agreement, settlement of any claim or assessment in respect of
Taxes, or consent to any extension or waiver of the limitation period
applicable to any claim or assessment in respect of Taxes.  

B-14  

22.                                     Environmental Matters . Except as set forth in the Disclosure
Letter: 

(a)                                     Each of the Company and the Seller with
respect to the Company Business is, and at all times has been, in full
compliance with, and has not been and is not in violation of or liable under,
any Environmental Law. Neither Seller with respect to the Company Business nor
the Company has any basis to expect, nor has either of them or any other Person
for whose conduct they are or may be held to be responsible received, any
actual or threatened order, notice, or other communication from (i) any Governmental
Body or private citizen acting in the public interest, or (ii) the current or prior
owner or operator of the Facility, of any actual or potential violation or
failure to comply with any Environmental Law, or of any actual or threatened
obligation to undertake or bear the cost of any Environmental, Health, and
Safety Liabilities with respect to the Facility or any other properties or
assets (whether real, personal, or mixed) in which Seller or the Company (or
any predecessor) has or had an interest (collectively, the   Environmental
Properties  ), or with respect to any property or any of the Environmental
Properties at or to which Hazardous Materials were generated, manufactured,
refined, transferred, imported, used, or processed by Seller, the Company, or
any other Person for whose conduct they are or may be held responsible, or from
which Hazardous Materials have been transported, treated, stored, handled,
transferred, disposed, recycled, or received. 

(b)                                    There are no pending or, to the Knowledge of
Seller and the Company, threatened claims, Encumbrances, or other restrictions
of any nature, resulting from any Environmental, Health, and Safety Liabilities
or arising under or pursuant to any Environmental Law, with respect to or
affecting any of the Environmental Properties. 

(c)                                     Neither Seller nor the Company has any basis
to expect, nor has either of them or any other Person for whose conduct they
are or may be held responsible, received, any citation, directive, inquiry,
notice, Order, summons, warning, or other communication that relates to
Hazardous Activity, Hazardous Materials, or any alleged, actual, or potential
violation or failure to comply with any Environmental Law, or of any alleged,
actual, or potential obligation to undertake or bear the cost of any
Environmental, Health, and Safety Liabilities with respect any of the Environmental
Properties, or with respect to any property or facility to which Hazardous
Materials generated, manufactured, refined, transferred, imported, used, or
processed by Seller, the Company, or any other Person for whose conduct they
are or may be held responsible, have been transported, treated, stored,
handled, transferred, disposed, recycled, or received. 

(d)                                    Neither Seller nor the Company, or any other
Person for whose conduct they are or may be held responsible, has any
Environmental, Health, and Safety Liabilities with respect to any of the
Environmental Properties, or at any property geologically or hydrologically
adjoining the Facility or any such other property or assets. 

(e)                                     Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter,
there are no Hazardous Materials present on or in the Environment at any of the
Environmental Properties or at any geologically or hydrologically adjoining
property, including any Hazardous Materials contained in barrels, above or
underground storage tanks, landfills, land deposits, dumps, 

B-15  

equipment
(whether moveable or fixed) or other containers, either temporary or permanent,
and deposited or located in land, water, sumps, or any other part of any of the
Environmental Properties or such adjoining property, or incorporated into any
structure therein or thereon except in full compliance with all applicable
Environmental Laws. None of Seller, the Company, any other Person for whose
conduct they are or may be held responsible, or any other Person, has permitted
or conducted, or is aware of, any Hazardous Activity conducted with respect to
any of the Environmental Properties except in full compliance with all
applicable Environmental Laws.  

(f)                                       There has been no Release or, to the Knowledge
of Seller, Threat of Release, of any Hazardous Materials at or from the
Facility or any of the Environmental Properties or at any other locations where
any Hazardous Materials were generated, manufactured, refined, transferred,
produced, imported, used, or processed from or by the Facility or any of the
Environmental Properties, or to the Knowledge of Seller and the Company any
geologically or hydrologically adjoining property, whether by Seller, the
Company, or any other Person. 

(g)                                    Seller has delivered to Buyer true and
complete copies and results of any reports, studies, analyses, tests, or
monitoring possessed or initiated by Seller or the Company pertaining to
Hazardous Materials or Hazardous Activities in, on, or under the Facility, or
concerning compliance by Seller, the Company, or any other Person for whose
conduct they are or may be held responsible, with Environmental Laws. 

23.                                     Employees . 

(a)                                     The Disclosure Letter contains a complete and
accurate list of the following information for each employee or director of the
Company, including each employee on leave of absence or layoff status: name;
job title; current compensation paid or payable and any change in compensation
since August 1, 2005; vacation accrued; and service credited for purposes of
vesting and eligibility to participate under the Company s pension, retirement,
profit-sharing, thrift-savings, deferred compensation, stock bonus, stock
option, cash bonus, employee stock ownership (including investment credit or
payroll stock ownership), severance pay, insurance, medical, welfare, or
vacation plan, other Employee Pension Benefit Plan or Employee Welfare Benefit
Plan, or any other employee benefit plan or any Director Plan, if any. 

(b)                                    To the Seller s Knowledge, no employee or
director of the Company is a party to, or is otherwise bound by, any agreement
or arrangement, including any confidentiality, noncompetition, or proprietary
rights agreement, between such employee or director and any other Person (  Proprietary
Rights Agreement  ) that in any way adversely affects or will
affect (i) the performance of his/her duties as an employee or director of the
Company, or (ii) the ability of the Company to conduct its business, including
any Proprietary Rights Agreement with Seller or the Company by any such
employee or director. To Seller s Knowledge, no director, officer, or other key
employee of the Company intends to terminate his employment with the Company. 

B-16  

(c)                                     The Disclosure Letter also contains a
complete and accurate list of the following information for each retired
employee or director of the Company receiving benefits or scheduled to receive
benefits in the future: name, pension benefit, pension option election, retiree
medical insurance coverage, retiree life insurance coverage, and other
benefits. 

24.                                       Labor Relations; Compliance . 

Neither
the Seller nor the Company has been or is a party to any collective bargaining
or other labor contract. Since August 1, 2002, there has not been, there is not
presently pending or existing, and to Seller s Knowledge there is not
threatened, (a) any strike, slowdown, picketing, work stoppage, or employee
grievance process, (b) any Proceeding against or affecting the Company or the
Company Business relating to the alleged violation of any legal requirement
pertaining to labor relations or employment matters, including any charge or
complaint filed by an employee or union with the National Labor Relations
Board, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or any comparable
Governmental Body, organizational activity, or other labor or employment
dispute against or affecting the Company or the Company Business, or (c) any
application for certification of a collective bargaining agent. To Seller s Knowledge,
no event has occurred or circumstance exists that could provide the basis for
any work stoppage or other labor dispute. There is no lockout of any employees
by the Company, and no such action is contemplated by the Company. The Company
has complied in all material respects with all legal requirements relating to
employment, equal employment opportunity, nondiscrimination, immigration,
wages, hours, benefits, collective bargaining, the payment of social security
and similar taxes, occupational safely and health, and plant closings. The
Company is not liable for the payment of any compensation, damages, taxes,
fines, penalties, or other amounts, however designated, for failure to comply
with any of the foregoing legal requirements.  

25.                                     Intellectual Property; Licenses . 

(a)                                      Intellectual Property . The term   Intellectual Property Assets     are the following as relates to the
Company and the Company Business: 

(i)                                        Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter,
all rights of Seller to the names  Ester C  and  Ester E , all fictional
business names, trading names, registered and unregistered trademarks, service
marks, and applications (collectively,   Marks   

(ii)                                     all patents, patent applications, and
inventions and discoveries that may be patentable, owned by Company or Seller
(collectively,   Patents   

(iii)                                  all licenses owned or possessed by Company or
Seller relating to Company s right to make, use and/or sell the patented
technology of others (collectively,   Patent Licenses   

(iv)                                 all registered copyrights in both published
works and unpublished works (collectively,   Copyrights   

B-17  

(v)                                    all rights in mask works (collectively,   Rights in
Mask Works   

(vi)                                 all rights to technical information,
know-how, and inventions, whether patentable or unpatentable, formulations,
confidential information, customer lists, software, data, process technology,
plans, drawings, and blueprints (collectively,   Trade Secrets  ) owned
or possessed by the Seller and all rights to Trade Secrets owned, used or
licensed by the Company as licensor or to the Company as licensee. 

(b)                                     Agreements . The Disclosure Letter contains a complete and accurate list and
summary description, including any royalties paid or received by Seller with
respect to Company Business or by the Company, of all contracts relating to the
Intellectual Property Assets to which the Seller, with respect to Company
Business, or Company, is a party or by which the Company is bound, except for
any license implied by the sale of a product and perpetual, paid-up licenses
for commonly available software programs with a purchase price of less than
$10,000 under which the Company is the licensee. Seller or Company has the
right to cancel any license agreement where Seller, with respect to the Company
Business, or Company, is the licensor on no more than 90 days notice and
without incurring any payments in connection with said termination. Seller or
Company has the right to cancel any of the Patent Licenses on no more than 180
days notice and without incurring any payment in connection with said
termination. There are no outstanding and, to Seller s Knowledge, no threatened
disputes or disagreements with respect to any such agreements. By acquiring the
Shares, Buyer is acquiring the Intellectual Property Assets free and clear of
all Encumbrances. 

(c)                                      Know-How Necessary for the Business . 

(i)                                        The Intellectual Property Assets of the
Company and the Company Business are owned by or licensed to the Seller or
Company, and are all those necessary for the operation of the Company Business
as currently conducted. Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter, the
Company is the exclusive owner of all right, title, and interest in and/or
licensed to each of the Intellectual Property Assets, free and clear of all
Encumbrances and other adverse claims, and has the right to manufacture, use,
advertise, offer for sale, or sell all of the Products currently sold by the
Company, in any country where the Company, or any licensee of the Company, is
making, having made, using, advertising, offering for sale or selling such
Products. 

(ii)                                     The Patent Licenses are the only licenses
necessary for the operation of the Company Business as currently conducted. All
milestone payments have been fully paid and all royalties due pursuant to the
Patent Licenses will be paid up to and through the Closing Date. The Patent
Licenses are in full force and effect. The Seller will take all necessary steps
and bear all related costs to affect a transfer, assignment and/or sublicense
of the Patent Licenses to Buyer. 

B-18  

(iii)                                  Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter,
all former and current employees of the Company have executed written contracts
with the Company that assign to the Company all rights to any inventions,
improvements, discoveries, or information relating to the Company Business. To
Seller s Knowledge, no employee of the Company has entered into any contract
that restricts or limits in any way the scope or type of work in which the
employee may be engaged or requires the employee to transfer, assign, or
disclose information concerning his work to anyone other than the Company. 

(d)                                     Patents . 

(i)                                        The Disclosure Letter contains a complete and
accurate list and summary description of all Patents, including the Patent
Licenses. Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter, the Company is the
owner of all right, title, and interest in and to each of the Patents, free and
clear of all Encumbrances and other adverse claims. 

(ii)                                     All of the issued Patents are in good
standing with respect to the payment of filing, examination, and maintenance
fees and proofs of working or use, are valid and enforceable and are not
subject to any maintenance fees or taxes or actions falling due within ninety
days after the Closing Date, except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter. 

(iii)                                  No Patent is involved in any interference,
reissue, reexamination, or opposition proceeding. There are no interfering or
dominating patents or patent applications of any third party which affect in
any way, the Company s ability to manufacture, have manufactured, use, sell,
advertise, or offer for sale the Ester-C Products in any country where the
Company, or any licensee of the Company, is making, having made, using,
advertising, offering for sale or selling such Products. There are no
interfering or dominating patents or patent applications of any third party
except for the patents covered by the Patent Licenses which affect, in any way,
the Company s ability to manufacture, have manufactured, use, advertise, offer
for sale, or sell the ESTER-E Products in any country where the Company, or any
licensee of the Company, is making, having made, using, advertising, offering
for sale or selling such Products. 

(iv)                                 No Patent is infringed by a third party. No
Patent has been challenged or threatened in any way. To Seller s Knowledge, no
patent licensed under the Patent Licenses is infringed by a third party. To
Seller s Knowledge, no patent licensed under the Patent Licenses has been
challenged or threatened in any way. None of the current Products manufactured
and sold, nor any process or know-how used, by the Company or in the Company
Business infringes or is alleged to infringe any patent or other proprietary
right of any other Person. 

(v)                                    All Ester-C products currently made, used,
advertised or sold by the Company are covered by one or more of the issued
Patents 

B-19  

(vi)                                 All Ester-E products currently made, used,
advertised or sold by the Company are covered by one or more patents licensed
under the Patent Licenses. 

(e)                                      Trademarks . 

(i)                                        The Disclosure Letter contains a complete and
accurate list and summary description of all Marks used in the Company Business
and lists all licenses pertaining to such Marks. Except as set forth in the
Disclosure Letter, the Company is the exclusive owner of all right, title, and
interest in and to each of the Marks, free and clear of all Encumbrances. 

(ii)                                     Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter,
the Marks are valid wherever the Company or licensees of the Company currently
sell products. The foregoing registrations are not subject to any maintenance
fees or taxes or actions falling due within ninety days after the Closing Date. 

(iii)                                  Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter,
no Mark has been or is now involved in any opposition, invalidation, or
cancellation and, to Seller s Knowledge, no such action is threatened with the
respect to any of the Marks. 

(iv)                                 Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter,
there is no potentially interfering trademark or trademark application of any
third party. 

(v)                                    Except as set forth in the Disclosure Letter,
no Mark or the use thereof has been challenged or, to Seller s Knowledge,
threatened in any way by any third party and none of the Marks used by the
Company or in the Company Business is alleged to infringe any trade name,
trademark, or service mark of any third party. Except as set forth in the
Disclosure Letter, no Mark is being infringed by any third party. Except as set
forth in the Disclosure Letter, no Mark infringes any trade name, trademark, or
service mark of any third party. 

(vi)                                 All packaging of products of the Company sold
by the Company to its licensees bearing a Mark include the proper federal
registration notice where permitted by law. All licensees of the Marks are
using the proper federal registration notice on the licensees  packaging of
products containing an ingredient sold by the Company to the licensees for use
in licensees  products. 

(f)                                        Copyrights . 

(i)                                        The Disclosure Letter contains a complete and
accurate list and summary description of all Copyrights related to the Company
Business. The Company is the owner of all right, title, and interest in and to
each of the Copyrights, free and clear of all Encumbrances and other adverse
claims. 

(ii)                                     All the Copyrights are valid and enforceable,
and are not subject to any maintenance fees or taxes or actions falling due
within ninety days after the Closing Date. 

B-20  

(iii)          No Copyright is infringed, and no
Copyright has been infringed, challenged or, to Seller s Knowledge, threatened
in any way and none of the subject matter of any of the Copyrights infringes or
is alleged to infringe any copyright of any third party or is a derivative work
based on the work of a third party.  

(iv)          All works
encompassed by the Copyrights have been marked with the proper copyright
notice.  

(g)            Trade Secrets .  

(i)            With respect to
each Trade Secret, Company has taken all commercially reasonable steps to
maintain all documentation relating to such Trade Secret current and accurate.  

(ii)           Seller and the
Company have taken all commercially reasonable precautions to protect the
secrecy, confidentiality, and value of their Trade Secrets.  

(iii)          The Company has an
absolute (but not necessarily exclusive) right to use the Trade Secrets. The
Trade Secrets are not part of the public knowledge or literature, and have not
been used, divulged, or appropriated either for the benefit of any Person (other
than the Company) or to the detriment of the Company. No Trade Secret is
subject to any adverse claim or has been challenged or threatened in any way.  

26.            Related Party . The Disclosure
Letter sets forth in reasonable detail all transactions existing between the
Company and any Affiliate entered into since August 1, 2005 or that are in
existence as of the date hereof. All such transactions will be terminated at or
prior to the Closing with no ongoing liability to the Company following the
Closing. All such transactions between the Company and any Affiliate have been
entered into on an arms-length basis. Except as disclosed in the Disclosure
Letter, since August 1, 2005, all settlements of intercompany liabilities
between the Company, on the one hand, and Seller or any such officer, director
or Affiliate, on the other, have been made, and all allocations of intercompany
expenses have been applied, in the ordinary course of business consistent with
past practice. No Related Person of Seller or the Company owns or has any
interest in any property (whether real, personal, or mixed and whether tangible
or intangible), used in or pertaining to the Company Business. No Related
Person of Seller or of the Company has owned (of record or as a beneficial
owner) an equity interest or any other financial or profit interest in, a
Person that has (a) had business dealings or a material financial interest in
any transaction with the Company other than business dealings or transactions
conducted in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice
with the Company at substantially prevailing market prices and on substantially
prevailing market terms, or (b) engaged in competition with the Company with
respect to any line of the products or services of the Company Business in any
market presently served by the Company. Except as set forth in the Disclosure
Letter, no Related Person of Seller or of the Company is a party to any
contract with, or has any claim or right against, the Company. There is no
indebtedness owed to the Company by a Related Person or by the  

B-21  

Company to a Related Person.
Except as set forth on the Disclosure Letter, neither Seller nor any officer,
director or Affiliate provides or causes to be provided any assets, services or
facilities to the Company or the Company Business nor does the Company provide
or cause to be provided any assets, services or facilities to Seller or any
such officer, director or Affiliate.  

27.            Real Property .  

(a)           The Disclosure
Letter contains a true and correct list of (i) each parcel of real property
owned by the Company and used for the Company Business, (ii) each parcel of
real property leased by the Company (as lessor or lessee) and used for the
Company Business and (iii) all Encumbrances (other than Permitted Encumbrances)
relating to or affecting any parcel of real property referred to in clause (i).  

(b)           Except as disclosed
in the Disclosure Letter, the Company has good and marketable fee simple title
to each parcel of real property owned by it, free and clear of all
Encumbrances, other than Permitted Encumbrances. Except for the real property
leased to others referred to in clause (ii) of paragraph (a) above, the Company
is in possession of each parcel of real property owned by it, together with all
buildings, structures, facilities, fixtures and other improvements thereon. The
Company has adequate rights of ingress and egress with respect to the real
property listed in the Disclosure Letter and all buildings, structures,
facilities, fixtures and other improvements thereon. None of such real
property, buildings, structures, facilities, fixtures or other improvements, or
the use thereof, contravenes or violates any building, zoning, administrative,
occupational safety and health or other Applicable Law in any material respect
(whether or not permitted on the basis of prior nonconforming use, waiver or
variance).  

(c)           The Company has a
valid and subsisting leasehold estate in and the right to quiet enjoyment of the
real properties leased by it for the full term of the lease thereof. Each lease
referred to in clause (ii) of paragraph (a) above is a legal, valid and binding
agreement, enforceable in accordance with its terms, of the Company and of each
other Person that is a party hereto, and except as set forth in the Disclosure
Letter, there is no, and the Company has not received notice of any, default
(or any condition or event which, after notice or laps of time or both, would
constitute a default) thereunder. The Company does not owe any brokerage
commissions with respect to any such leased space.  

(d)           Seller has delivered
to Buyer prior to the execution of this Agreement true and complete copies of
(i) all deeds, leases, mortgages, deeds of trust, certificates of
occupancy, title insurance policies, title reports, surveys and similar
documents, and all amendments thereof, with respect to the real property owned
by the Company and used in the Company Business, and (ii) all leases (including
any amendments and renewal letters) and, to the extent reasonably available,
all other documents referred to in clause (i) of this Paragraph (d) with
respect to the real property leased by the Company and used in the Company
Business.  

B-22  

(e)           Except as set forth
in the Disclosure Letter, no tenant or other party in possession of any of the
real properties owned by the Company and used in the Company Business, has any
right to purchase, or holds any right of first refusal to purchase, such
properties.  

(f)            Except as disclosed
in the Disclosure Letter, the improvements on the real property identified in
the Disclosure Letter are in good operating condition and in a state of good
maintenance and repair, ordinary wear and tear excepted, are adequate and
suitable for the purpose for which they are presently being used and, there are
no condemnation or appropriation proceedings pending or to Seller s Knowledge,
threatened against any of such real property or the improvements thereon.  

28.            Substantial Customers and
Suppliers . The Disclosure Letter lists the ten (10) largest customers of
the Company Business, on the basis of revenues for goods sold or services
provided for the most recently completed fiscal year. The Disclosure Letter lists
the ten (10) largest suppliers to the Company Business, on the basis of cost of
goods or services purchased for the most recently completed fiscal year. Except
as disclosed in the Disclosure Letter, no such customer or supplier has ceased
or materially reduced its purchase from, use of the services of, sales to or
provision of services to the Company since, or to the Knowledge of Seller, has
threatened to cease or materially reduce such purchases, use, sales or
provision of services after the date hereof. Except as disclosed in the
Disclosure Letter, to the Knowledge of Seller, no such customer or supplier is
threatened with bankruptcy or insolvency.  

29.            Bank and Brokerage Accounts;
Investment Assets . The Disclosure Letter sets forth (a) a true and complete
list of the names and locations of all banks, trust companies, securities
brokers and other financial institution at which the Company has an account or
safe deposit box or maintains a banking, custodial, trading or other similar
relationship; (b) a true and complete list and description of each such
account, box and relationship, indicting in each case the account number and
the names of the respective officers, employees, agents or other similar
representatives of the Company having signatory power with respect thereto; and
(c) a list of each investment asset, the name of the record and beneficial
owner thereof, the location of the certificates, if any, therefore, the
maturity date, if any, and any stock or bond powers or other authority for
transfer granted with respect thereto.  

30.            Disclosure . No representation
or warranty contained in this Agreement, and no statement contained in the
Disclosure Letter or in any certificate, list or other writing furnished to
Buyer pursuant to any provision of this Agreement (including, without
limitation, the Financial Statements), contains any untrue statement of a
material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements herein or therein, in the light of the circumstances under which
they were made, not misleading;  

31.            Proxy Statement . Subject to
the accuracy of the representations and warranties of Buyer set forth in
paragraph 9 of  Exhibit C , the Proxy Statement will not, on the date the
Proxy Statement (or any amendment or supplement thereto) is first mailed to
stockholders of the Seller, contain any untrue statement of a material fact, or
omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in
order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under
which they are made, not misleading and will not, at the time of the Seller  

B-23  

Stockholders Meeting, omit
to state any material fact necessary to correct any statement in any earlier
communication from the Seller with respect to the solicitation of proxies for
the Seller Stockholders Meeting which shall have become false or misleading in
any material respect. The Proxy Statement will comply as to form in all
respects with the applicable requirements of the Exchange Act. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Seller makes no representation or warranty with respect to
information supplied by or on behalf of the Buyer for inclusion in the Proxy
Statement.  

B-24  

EXHIBIT C  
 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF BUYER   

Buyer
represents and warrants to Seller each of the following:  

1.              Organization and Qualification .
Buyer is a corporation duly organized, validly existing, and in good standing
under the laws of Delaware, and has the requisite corporate power and authority
to own and operate its properties and to carry on its business as now conducted
in each jurisdiction where the failure to do so would have a material adverse
effect on its business, properties, or ability to conduct the business
currently conducted by it.  

2.              Authority Relative to this
Agreement . Buyer has the requisite corporate power and authority to enter
into this Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder. The execution
and delivery of this Agreement by Buyer and the consummation by Buyer of the
transactions contemplated hereby has been duly authorized by Buyer, and no
other corporate proceedings on the part of Buyer are necessary to authorize
this Agreement and such transactions entered into. This Agreement has been duly
executed and delivered by Buyer and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of Buyer, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as the
enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,
or other similar laws relating to the enforcement of creditors  rights
generally and by general principles of equity.  

3.              No Conflicts . Buyer is not
subject to, or obligated under, any provision of (a) its Certificate of
Incorporation or Bylaws, (b) any material agreement, arrangement, or
understanding to which the Buyer is a party, (c) any material license,
franchise, or permit, or (d) any law, regulation, order, judgment, or decree to
which the Buyer is subject, which would be breached or violated by its
execution, delivery, and performance of this Agreement and the consummation by
it of the transactions contemplated hereby.  

4.              No Consents . No
authorization, consent, or approval of, or filing with, any public body, court,
or authority is necessary on the part of Buyer for the consummation by Buyer of
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.  

5.             Investment Purposes. Buyer is
acquiring the Shares and not with a view to their distribution with the meaning
of Section 2(i) of the Securities Act.  

6.              Litigation . As of the date
hereof, no action by or against the Buyer is pending or, to the best Knowledge
of the Buyer, threatened, which could affect the legality, validity or
enforceability of this Agreement, or the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby.  

7.              Brokers . No broker, finder
or investment banker is entitled to any brokerage, finder s or other fee or
commission in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of Buyer.  

8.              Independent Investigation;
Seller s Representation . Buyer has conducted its own independent
investigation, review and analysis of the business, operations, assets,
liabilities, results of operations, financial condition, software, technology and
prospects of the Company Business, which investigation, review and analysis was
done by Buyer and its Affiliates and  

C-1  

representatives.
Buyer acknowledges that it and its representatives have been provided adequate
access to the personnel, properties, premises and records of the Company for
such purpose. In entering into this Agreement, Buyer acknowledges that it has
relied solely upon the aforementioned investigation, review and analysis and
not on any factual representations or opinions of the Seller or its
representatives (except the specific representations and warranties of the
Seller set forth in  Exhibit B  and the Disclosure Letter thereto). Buyer
hereby acknowledges and agrees that (a) other than the representations and
warranties made in  Exhibit B , none of the Seller, its Affiliates, or any
of their respective officers, directors, employees or representatives make or
have made any representations or warranty, express or implied, at law or in equity,
with respect to the Company, the Shares or the Company Business, including as
to (i) merchantability or fitness for any particular use or purpose or (ii) the
probable success or profitability of the Company Business after the Closing
Date.  

9.              Proxy Statement . Subject to
the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Seller set forth in
paragraph 31 of  Exhibit B , the information supplied by Buyer for
inclusion in the Proxy Statement will not, on the date the Proxy Statement (or
any amendment or supplement thereto) is first mailed to stockholders of the
Seller, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the
statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they are
made, not misleading, and will not, at the time of the Seller Stockholders
Meeting, omit to state any material fact necessary to correct any statement in
any earlier communication with respect to the solicitation of proxies for the
Seller Stockholders Meeting which shall have become false or misleading in any
material respect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Buyer makes no representation
or warranty with respect to any information supplied by or on behalf of the
Seller for inclusion in the Proxy Statement.  

C-2  

EXHIBIT D 
 
PROCEDURE FOR INDEMNIFICATION   

Subject to the limitations set forth in Article 4 of the Agreement, the
party seeking to be indemnified (the   Indemnified Party  )   will promptly give written notice
hereunder to the party from which it seeks to be indemnified by (the   Indemnifying
Party  )   after
obtaining notice of any claim as to which recovery may be sought against the
Indemnifying Party. However, the right to indemnification hereunder will not be
affected by any delay in or failure of an Indemnified Party to give any notice,
unless, and then only to the extent that, the rights and remedies of the
Indemnifying Party will have been prejudiced as a result of the failure to
give, or delay in giving, notice.  

If
the indemnity claim arises from the claim of a third-party, the Indemnified
Party will permit the Indemnifying Party to assume the defense of any such
claim and any litigation resulting from such claim at the Indemnifying Party s
cost and expense. If the Indemnifying Party fails to notify an Indemnified
Party of its election to defend any such claim or action by a third party with
respect to which it has the option to defend within 30 days after the Indemnifying
Party receives notice of such claim or action, then the Indemnifying Party will
be deemed to have waived its right to defend such claim or action. If the
Indemnifying Party assumes the defense of a third-party claim, the obligations
of the Indemnifying Party as to such claim will include taking all steps
necessary in the defense or settlement of such claim or litigation and holding
the Indemnified Party harmless from and against any and all damages caused by
or arising out of any settlement approved by the Indemnifying Party or any
judgment in connection with such claim or litigation. The Indemnifying Party
shall not, in the defense of such claim or any litigation resulting therefrom,
consent to entry of any judgment (other than a judgment of dismissal on the
merits without costs) except with the written consent of the Indemnified Party,
or enter into any settlement (except with the written consent of the
Indemnified Party) which does not include as an unconditional term thereof the
giving by the claimant or the plaintiff to the Indemnified Party a release from
all liability in respect of such claim or litigation. The non-defending party
may, with counsel of its choice and at its expense, participate in the defense
of any such claim or litigation.  

If the Indemnifying Party does not assume the defense of any such claim
or litigation by a third-party, the Indemnified Party may defend against such
claim or litigation in such manner as it deems appropriate. The Indemnified
Party may not settle such claim or litigation without the written consent of
Indemnifying Party, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. The
Indemnifying Party will promptly pay or reimburse the Indemnified Party for all
expenses in defending any claim, for the amount of any settlement, and for all
damages incurred by the Indemnified Party in connection with any such claim or
litigation.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Indemnified Party determines in
good faith that there is a reasonable probability that a Proceeding may
adversely affect it or its Affiliates other than as a result of monetary
damages for which it would be entitled to indemnification under this Agreement,
the Indemnified Party may at the Indemnifying Party s sole cost and expense, by
notice to the Indemnifying Party, assume the exclusive right to defend,
compromise, or settle such Proceeding, but the Indemnifying Party will not be
bound by any determination of a  

D-1  

Proceeding so defended or
any compromise or settlement effected without its consent (which may not be
unreasonably withheld).  

Seller and Buyer hereby consent to the non exclusive jurisdiction of
any court in which a Proceeding is brought against any Indemnified Person for
purposes of any claim that an Indemnified Person may have under this Agreement
with respect to such Proceeding or the mattes alleged therein, and agree that
process may be served on Seller with respect to such a claim anywhere in the
world.  

With respect to any third-party claim subject to indemnification under
this  Exhibit D : (i) both the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying
Party, as the case may be, shall keep the other Person reasonably informed of
the status of such third-party claim and any related Proceedings at all stages
thereof where such Person is not represented by its own counsel, and (ii) the
parties agree (each at its own expense) to render to each other such assistance
as they may reasonably require of each other and to cooperate in good faith
with each other in order to ensure the proper and adequate defense of any
third-party claim.  

With respect to any third-party claim subject to indemnification under
this Exhibit D, the parties agree to cooperate in such a manner as to preserve
in full (to the extent possible) the confidentiality of all confidential
information and the attorney-client and work-product privileges. In connection
therewith, each party agrees that: (i) it will use its best efforts, in respect
of any third-party claim in which it has assumed or participated in the
defense, to avoid production of confidential information (consistent with
Applicable Law and rules of procedure), and (ii) all communications between any
party hereto and counsel responsible for or participating in the defense of any
third-party claim shall, to the extent possible, be made so as to preserve any
applicable attorney-client or work-product privilege.  

D-2  

EXHIBIT E   

FORM OF SELLER OPINION LETTER   

Omitted  

EXHIBIT F   

FORM OF BUYER OPINION LETTER   

Omitted  

EXHIBIT G   

FORM OF NON-COMPETITION AGREEMENT   

Omitted  

</EX-10.15>

<EX-10.16>
 6
 a2174922zex-10_16.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.16

Exhibit
10.16   

FIRST AMENDMENT TO

STOCK PURCHASE
AGREEMENT   

FIRST AMENDMENT TO STOCK
PURCHASE AGREEMENT dated as of September 28, 2006 by and between Zila, Inc, a
Delaware corporation ( Seller ) and NBTY, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Buyer ).  

W I T N E S S E T H:   

WHEREAS, the above
parties have entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of August 13,
2006 ( Stock Purchase Agreement  and  

WHEREAS, the Stock
Purchase Agreement provides in Section 7.10 that it may be amended by the
written agreement of the Buyer and Seller; and  

WHEREAS, the undersigned
parties wish to amend the Stock Purchase Agreement in the manner set forth
below;  

NOW, THEREFORE, the
undersigned parties agree as follows:  

1. The last sentence of
paragraph 25 (c)(ii) of Exhibit B is hereby amended by deleting it in its
entirety and replacing it with the following:  

The Seller will take all
necessary steps and bear all related costs to affect a transfer, assignment
and/or sublicense of the Patent Licenses to the Company. .  

2. Paragraph 25 of
Exhibit B is hereby further amended by adding a new subsection to subsection
(a) as follows:  

(vii) all domain names
owned or controlled by the Company (the  Domain Names ). .  

3. Paragraph 25 of
Exhibit B is hereby further amended by adding a new subsection as follows:  

(h)   Domain Names .  

The Disclosure Letter
contains a complete and accurate list of all Domain Names. .  

4. All references to the
Stock Purchase Agreement in the Stock Purchase Agreement or in any documents
delivered in connection therewith, shall be deemed to mean the Stock Purchase
Agreement as amended hereby.  

5. Except as modified by
this First Amendment, the Stock Purchase Agreement shall remain in full force
and effect.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned have executed this First Amendment on the date first written above
by their duly authorized officers.  

ZILA, INC.  

By:  

/s/ GARY KLINEFELLER  

Its:  

Vice President  

NBTY, INC.  

By:  

/s/ MICHAEL SLADE  

Its:   

Senior Vice President  

</EX-10.16>

<EX-12.1>
 7
 a2174922zex-12_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.1

Exhibit 12.1   

NBTY INC.   

   COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES   

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 8
 a2174922zex-21_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1

Exhibit 21.1   

Subsidiaries of   

    NBTY, Inc. (Delaware)    

De Tuinen, B.V.
  (Netherlands)   

Health
    Diet Centres Limited (United Kingdom)  

Health
    Diet Food Company Limited (United Kingdom)  

Holland
    Barrett Retail Limited (United Kingdom)  

Le
  Naturiste J.M.B. Inc. (Canada)  

Knox
  (a fictitious name of NBTY, Inc.)  

Met-Rx
  Nutrition, Inc. (Delaware)  

Met-Rx
  USA, Inc. (Nevada)  

Nature
  Bounty de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. (Mexico)  

Nature s
  Bounty, Inc. (New York), d/b/a:  

Arco
  Pharmaceuticals  

Hudson
  Co.  

Nature s
  Way Limited (Republic of Ireland)  

NBTY
  Manufacturing, LLC (Delaware), d/b/a:  

D F
  Industries  

NBTY
  Manufacturing Colorado  

NBTY
  Manufacturing Florida  

NBTY
  Manufacturing Illinois  

NBTY
  Manufacturing New Jersey  

NBTY
  Manufacturing New York  

NBTY
  Manufacturing West  

Nutro
  Laboratories  

Omni-Pak
  Industries  

Raven
  Industries  

NBTY
  Europe Limited (United Kingdom)  

Puritan s
  Pride, Inc. (New York)  

Rexall
  Sundown, Inc. (Florida)  

SISU
  Inc. (Canada)  

Solgar,
  Inc. (Delaware)  

Solgar
  Holdings, Inc. (Delaware)  

Sundown,
  Inc. (Florida)  

United
  States Nutrition, Inc. (Delaware), d/b/a US Nutrition  

Vitamin
  World Limited (United Kingdom)  

Vitamin
  World, Inc. (Delaware)  

Worldwide
  Sport Nutritional Supplements, Inc. (New York)  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 9
 a2174922zex-23_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 
 
   Exhibit 23.1     

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-46188, 333-71691 and
333-108038) of NBTY, Inc. of our report dated December 11, 2006, relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule, management's assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10K.   

  /s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers   

  Stamford,
Connecticut 
December 11, 2006   

QuickLinks    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 10
 a2174922zex-23_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 
 
   Exhibit 23.2     

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

          We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-46188, 333-71691 and 333-108038 of
NBTY, Inc. on Form S-8 of our reports dated December 22, 2005 (March 15, 2006 as to Note 20), relating to the consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedule of NBTY, Inc., appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of NBTY, Inc. for the year ended September 30, 2006.   

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Jericho,
New York 
December 11, 2006   

QuickLinks    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 a2174922zex-31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 
 
   Exhibit 31.1     

CERTIFICATIONS            

  I,
Scott Rudolph, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of NBTY, Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the
audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.    

Dated:
December 11, 2006   

Signature:  

/s/    SCOTT RUDOLPH          

Scott Rudolph     Principal Executive Officer   

QuickLinks    
  CERTIFICATIONS   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 a2174922zex-31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 
 
   Exhibit 31.2     

CERTIFICATIONS            

  I,
Harvey Kamil, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of NBTY, Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the
audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.    

Dated:
December 11, 2006   

Signature:  

/s/    HARVEY KAMIL          

Harvey Kamil     Principal Financial Officer   

QuickLinks    
  CERTIFICATIONS   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 a2174922zex-32_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 
 
   Exhibit 32.1     

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of NBTY, Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2006 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Scott Rudolph, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted
pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge and belief:   

          (1)   The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

          (2)   The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.   

/s/    SCOTT RUDOLPH            Scott Rudolph     Chief Executive Officer    
December 11, 2006  

QuickLinks    
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 a2174922zex-32_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 
 
   Exhibit 32.2     

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of NBTY, Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2006 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Harvey Kamil, President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350,
as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge and belief:   

(1)   The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

          (2)   The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.   

/s/    HARVEY KAMIL            Harvey Kamil     President and Chief Financial
Officer    
December 11, 2006  

QuickLinks    
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.2>

