<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061211_10-K_edgar_data_93859_0000093859-06-000076_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1829085</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>181336</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1264632</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>99</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000093859-06-000076.hdr.sgml : 20061211
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061211140524
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000093859-06-000076
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060927
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061211
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061211

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			STEAK & SHAKE CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000093859
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-EATING PLACES [5812]
		IRS NUMBER:				370684070
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0927

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-08445
		FILM NUMBER:		061267943

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		36 S PENNSYLVANIA ST
		STREET 2:		CENTURY BLDG - 500
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46236
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3176334100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		36 S PENNSYLVANIA ST
		STREET 2:		CENTURY BLDG - 500
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CONSOLIDATED PRODUCTS INC /IN/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STEAK N SHAKE INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19840529

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FIv8D8eMvqgO55uPUzdbhl+n1H5nCOi9YwtYjPLQN3a+LDGkkoFcd/UsxFfdRXSm
 GsJ3dFW92qkMP+SVzAxkVA==

 0000093859-06-000076.txt : 20061211

10-K
 1
 snsform10k.htm
 STEAK N SHAKE 2006 FORM 10K

Documents

UNITED
      STATES 

      SECURITIES
      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

      Washington,
      D. C. 20549 

FORM
      10-K 

ANNUAL
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
      1934 

For
      the
      fiscal year ended September 27, 2006 

Commission
      file number 0-8445 

THE
                STEAK N SHAKE COMPANY 

                (Exact
                name of registrant as specified in its
                charter) 

INDIANA 

37-0684070 

(State
                or other jurisdiction 

(I.R.S.
                Employer 

of
                incorporation or organization) 

Identification
                No.) 

.. 

Title
                of Each Class 

Name
                of Exchange on Which Registered 

Common
                Stock, stated value $.50 per share 

New
                York Stock Exchange 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Sec. 12(g) of the Act: None. 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes       No
 X  

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes       No 
      X  

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
      to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
      for
      the past 90 days. Yes    X
         No      

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Rule 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
      this
      Form 10-K.       

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer or a non-accelerated filer. (see definition of
      "accelerated filer and large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the
      Exchange Act). 

      Large
      accelerated filer  __             Accelerated
      Filer _X_               Non
      Accelerated filer ___ 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
      Exchange Act rule 12b-2). Yes  No    X     

The
      aggregate market value of Common Stock held by persons not "affiliated" with
      the
      registrant, based on the closing price of the Common Stock at April 12, 2006,
      was approximately $  445,658,513
        based
      on
      the closing stock price of $17.03 per share on that day. 

The
      number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at December 4, 2006 was
      28,203,032. 

DOCUMENTS
      INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

      Portions
      of the Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Registrant
      are incorporated by reference into Part III. 

1 

The
      Steak n Shake Company  

Form
        10-K  

         Year
        ended September 27, 2006  

         Table
        of Contents  

Page 

Part
                  I  

Item
                  1 

Business 

3 

Item
                  1A 

Risk
                  Factors 

10 

Item
                  1B 

Unresolved
                  Staff Comments 

11 

Item
                  2 

Properties 

12 

Item
                  3 

Legal
                  Proceedings 

12 

Item
                  4 

Submission
                  of Matters to a Vote of Security
                  Holders 

12 

Part
                  II 

Item
                  5 

Market for
                  Registrant's Common Equity, Related
                  Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
                  Securities 

13 

Item
                  6 

Selected
                  Financial Data 

14 

Item
                  7 

Management's
                  Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                  Condition and Results of Operations 

15 

Item
                  7A 

Quantitative
                  and Qualitative Disclosures about
                  Market Risk 

22 

Item
                  8 

Financial
                  Statements and Supplementary
                  Data 

23 

Item
                  9 

Changes
                  in and Disagreements with Accountants on
                  Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

40 

Item
                  9A 

Controls
                  and Procedures 

40 

Item 9B 

Other
                  Information 

43 

Part
                  III 

Item 10 

Directors, Executive
                  Officers and Corporate
                  Governance 

43 

Item 11 

Executive
                  Compensation 

43 

Item 12 

Security
                  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                  and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 

43 

Item 13 

Certain
                  Relationships and Related Transactions, and
                  Director Independence 

43 

Item 14 

Principal
                  Accounting Fees and
                  Services 

43 

Part
                  IV 

Item 15 

Exhibits
                  and Financial Statement
                  Schedules 

44 

Signatures 

47 

Index
                  to Exhibits 

48 

2 

PART
      I.  

ITEM
      1.        BUSINESS  

General   

The
      Steak
      n Shake Company ("Steak n Shake" or the "Company") is engaged primarily in
      the
      ownership, operation and franchising of Steak n Shake restaurants. Founded
      in
      1934 in Normal, Illinois, Steak n Shake is one of the oldest restaurant chains
      in the country. As of September 27, 2006, we had 429 Company-owned
      restaurants and 48 franchised restaurants, located in 19 states. Steak n
      Shake restaurants are generally open 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and
      in
      addition to the core menu, offer a breakfast menu during breakfast hours. Lunch
      and dinner sales account for approximately 37% and 46% of sales, respectively,
      while breakfast and late night sales account for 6% and 11% of sales,
      respectively.     

Our
      fiscal year ends on the last Wednesday in September. Accordingly, every five
      or
      six years, our fiscal year contains fifty-three weeks. Fiscal years 2006 and
      2005 contained fifty-two weeks, while fiscal year 2004 contained fifty-three
      weeks. Our first, third, and fourth quarters contain twelve weeks and the second
      quarter contains sixteen weeks (except in fiscal years when there are
      fifty-three weeks, in which case the fourth quarter contains thirteen
      weeks). 

The
      Steak n Shake Concept    

We
      strive
      to be the best restaurant in the world at providing guests a genuine, classic
      community diner experience with STEAKBURGER  sandwiches and hand-dipped milk
      shakes. We occupy a distinct niche in the restaurant industry by offering
      full-service dining with counter and dining room seating, as well as drive-thru
      and carryout service. Counter and dining room sales represent approximately
      sixty-percent of the sales mix, while sales for off-premises dining represent
      approximately forty-percent of the sales mix. Unlike some fast-food restaurants,
      all Steak n Shake food is freshly prepared, cooked-to-order in view of the
      guest, and served promptly on china with flatware and glassware by a friendly
      team of wait staff. Our prices are generally less than most casual dining and
      family-style concepts, with an average check of approximately $6.90 per person.
      The average check during the peak lunch and dinner hours is approximately $6.90
      and $7.20, respectively. 

We
      believe that Steak n Shake offers more compelling value and core menu items
      with
      a higher level of quality than competing fast food chains. Our menu continues
      to
      feature core items that include STEAKBURGER  sandwiches, thin and crispy french
      fries and hand-dipped milk shakes. We believe that our focus on certain menu
      items has allowed us to serve consistent, high-quality food that has built
      brand
      loyalty with our guests. Menu items are prepared in accordance with our strict
      specifications using high-quality ingredients including 100% pure
      U.S. beef, with cuts of T-bone, strip and sirloin steak, in our
      STEAKBURGER  sandwiches.  

Over
      the
      years, we have responded to changing guest tastes by providing greater menu
      variety without losing our focus or guest appeal. During the current year,
      new
      menu offerings included five varieties of Premium Topping Steakburger 
Sandwiches. These new steakburgers have provided more choices than
      our traditional Steakburger  sandwiches. We have also added new Bits n
      Pieces  Milk Shakes in the current year. These included bits and
      pieces of candies mixed into our traditional hand-dipped milkshakes. 
Candy choices include M M 's, chocolate peanut butter candies,
      cookie dough, and cookies and cream pieces.  In addition to
      these new menu items that we have been launching Company wide, we are
      also testing other new items including Frozen Yogurt and Fruit n Frozen Yogurt
      Milk Shakes in select markets. 

Expanding
      the Concept   

Accelerating
      the Company's growth into both new and existing trade areas has been a focus
      in
      recent years. During fiscal year 2006, we opened twenty-six new
      Company-owned units and six new
      franchise units.  The new Company-owned units were built in
      existing markets, with franchise openings aiding in growth in current
      markets and new markets as well. This level of expansion has allowed us to
      build
      field organizational quality and stability while focusing on improving each
      and
      every guest experience through hospitality initiatives; improving depth in
      the field organization through improved recruitment and higher retention;
      enhancing training and staff development; and aggressively marketing the brand
      through differentiation. We currently expects to expand our growth by
      opening approximately fifteen Company-owned Steak n Shake restaurants in
      fiscal year 2007. The actual number of openings will depend on many factors,
      including the ability to locate appropriate sites, negotiate acceptable purchase
      or lease terms, obtain necessary local governmental permits, complete
      construction, and recruit and train restaurant management and hourly
      associates.   

During
      our current fiscal fourth quarter, we acquired eight franchised restaurants
      from
      Creative Restaurants, Inc. ("CRI") a former franchisee. These
      restaurants were all well established restaurants primarily in the
      Louisville, Kentucky area.  Similarly, we purchased 17 restaurants owned by
      Kelley Restaurants, Inc. ("KRI") in fiscal 2005.  These restaurants were
      located in the Atlanta, Georgia and Charlotte, North Carolina
      markets.   The purchase of franchised restaurants allows us to build
      on the success achieved by our franchisees while giving us the opportunity
      to
      further develop the markets in which these restaurants are located. 

Because
      the site selection process is critical to the success of our
      restaurants, our senior management devotes significant time and resources
      to analyzing each prospective site. We consider a variety of factors in the
      site
      selection process, including local market demographics, site visibility and
      accessibility, highway interchanges and proximity to significant generators
      of
      potential guests, such as major retailers, housing communities and businesses.
      During fiscal 2006, we have begun utilizing a new site selection tool. Thompson
      MapInfo allows us to be much more analytic in our real estate site selections.
      This site selection tool provides a more sophisticated view of the sales
      potential for each prospective site as well as insight into markets around
      the
      country. In 2007 and beyond, we will continue to prioritize and select markets
      and individual sites for both Company-owned and franchise
      expansion. 

3

Our
      Strategic Plan   

During
      fiscal 2006, we unveiled our strategic plan for growth. While our
      growth plan is divided into 3 phases that build upon the previous phase, the
      strategic plan is centered around five key goals:  Inspired Associates,
      Delighted Guests, Empowering Leaders, Process Excellence and Market Expansion.
      During 2007, the major focus of resources will be on Delighted Guests, with
      the
      goal of improving guest counts. As it relates to Delighted Guests, the first
      major initiative is called "The Guest Winning Promise.  This initiative will
      explore a series of options for optimizing each element of the Steak 'n Shake
      guest experience including: building exterior design, interior atmosphere,
      dine-in   drive-thru menu, service execution, and point of sale system
      optimization. The intent is to be deliberate about every aspect of the Steak
      n
      Shake concept at a level of detail and understanding we have never completed
      before. We believe it is essential to ensure that our concept continues to
      have
      great consumer relevance while operating in the most efficient and effective
      manner possible.  

While
      Delighted Guests will be our main focus in fiscal 2007, other initiatives will
      receive attention as well. For example, relative to Inspired Associates, we
      will
      begin a project called "The Associate Winning Promise." The goal of this project
      is to further understand the characteristics of those associates who most
      consistently delight our guests and find great satisfaction working at Steak
      'n
      Shake. This will provide important insights about how best to attract, develop
      and retain these valued associates. We plan to begin testing
      and implementing the best ideas that arise from this research during 2007.

Strengthening
      the Foundation   

In
      2007,
      we expect to accelerate progress on field execution in a systematic manner.
      During 2006, we identified three key measures which correlate most highly with
      our same store sales success: change in drive-through speed, guest
      satisfaction in the dining room, and associate turnover. We have classified
      all
      restaurants into five quintiles based on their performance against these
      measures which we have labeled A (best) to E (worst). During 2007, we intend
      to
      make significant progress moving every  E-B  restaurant up at least one tier by
      working to address the issues affecting these under-performing
      units. 

Restaurant
      Locations   

The
      following table lists the locations of the 477 Steak n Shake restaurants,
      including 48 franchised units, as of September 27, 2006: 

4

Restaurant
    Operations   

The
      key
      to growing our customer base is ensuring our guests have an enjoyable dine-in,
      carry-out or drive-thru experience. To ensure a positive guest experience,
      we must have competent and skilled restaurant management at each of our
      locations. A typical Steak n Shake restaurant's management team consists of
      a general manager, a restaurant manager and from one to four managers. The
      number of managers varies depending upon the sales volume of the unit. Each
      restaurant's General Manager has primary responsibility for the day-to-day
      operations of the restaurant and is responsible for maintaining
      Company-established operating standards and procedures. The General Manager
      holds the responsibility for his/her unit's profitability and his/her bonus
      is partially based on exceeding the financial plan's expected store
      profitability. In addition to day-to-day operations, the General Manager is
      involved in the planning and budgeting process for his/her restaurant. An
      experienced, well-trained General Manager promotes compliance with our high
      standards for food quality and guest service, ensures that all health and
      safety requirements are met and ensures compliance with applicable state labor
      laws. We seek to employ managers who focus on guest service and who manage
      the restaurant from the dining room.  

We
      foster
      a "promote from within" approach. To develop the talented bench strength needed
      for continued internal promotions, developing our associates into
      outstanding managers is one of our highest priorities. As part of our commitment
      to improving our standards of execution, we emphasize strengthening each
      management team's skills and capabilities through innovative selection,
      development, evaluation, and reward systems. Associates are encouraged to learn
      new skills to foster their professional growth and to create greater
      opportunities for advancement. The management development process is designed
      to
      not only meet our current management needs, but to provide the foundation
      for our future growth needs as well.  

Guest
      Satisfaction and Quality Control   

Our
      reputation and guest loyalty have been earned through the consistent quality
      of
      the dining experience we provide to our guests. Our
      future success depends on our associates' consistent commitment to
      exceeding the guests' expectations.  This commitment is monitored at
      Company-owned units through the use of guest comment cards, guest
      satisfaction surveys, a mystery shopping program, frequent on-site visits and
      formal inspections by management and training personnel. Franchised restaurants
      are monitored through periodic inspections by the Company's franchise field
      operations personnel, guest satisfaction surveys, and a mystery shopping
      program, in addition to their own internal management oversight procedures.
      These guest satisfaction measurement tools provide data for both
      continuing and improving our excellence in customer service.  

Purchasing
      and Distribution Center Operations   

We
      operate one distribution center in Bloomington, Illinois from which food
      products (except for items purchased by the restaurants locally such as bakery
      goods, produce and dairy products) and restaurant supplies are delivered to
      108
      Company-owned and 9 franchised restaurants. The restaurants served by the
      distribution center are located in parts of the Midwest (primarily in Illinois,
      Missouri, Iowa and Wisconsin). Our semi-trailers handle refrigerated
      products, frozen products and dry goods in the same delivery trip. The
      restaurants that are not serviced by the distribution center obtain
      Company-approved food products and supplies from two separate independent
      distributors; one with locations in Orlando, Florida and Pryor, Oklahoma, and
      the other with a location in Zanesville, Ohio. 

Purchases
      are negotiated centrally for most food and beverage products and supplies to
      ensure uniform quality, adequate quantities and competitive prices. Short-term
      forward buying contracts are utilized to facilitate the availability of products
      that meet our specifications and to lessen our exposure to fluctuating prices.
      Food and supply items undergo ongoing research, development and testing in
      an
      effort to maintain the highest quality products and to be responsive to changing
      consumer tastes. 

Branding    

Our
      marketing thrust is driven by new product news and is directed towards building
      brand loyalty and increasing purchase frequency.  Marketing platforms
      are product benefit directed and explain why Steak n Shake is superior to fast
      food alternatives by using a fun, irreverent, tongue-in-cheek approach in our
      advertising campaigns. This "voice of the restaurant" defines our brand
      personality. By coupling this branding approach with real consumer benefits,
      existing guests are encouraged to visit more often and new guests are encouraged
      to give our concept a try. Television and radio, outdoor billboards, and coupon
      inserts are our key areas of focus in advertising.  

5

Franchising   

We
      designed our franchising program to extend the Company's brand name recognition
      to areas where we have no current development plans, and to derive additional
      revenues without substantial investment. Our expansion plans include selectively
      seeking new franchisees to help grow the Steak n Shake brand, along with
      expanding relationships with current franchisees. 

Franchisees
      undergo a selection process supervised by the Vice President, Franchising,
      and
      require final approval by senior management. We typically seek franchisees
      with the financial resources necessary to fund successful development and
      significant experience in the restaurant/retail business. We assist franchisees
      with both the development and ongoing operation of their restaurants. Our
      management personnel assist with site selection, approve all restaurant sites
      and provide franchisees with prototype plans and construction support and
      specifications for their restaurants. Our staff provides both on-site and
      off-site instruction to franchised restaurant management associates.

All
      franchised restaurants are required to serve only Steak n Shake
      approved menu items.  Access to services such as our distribution center
      and point-of-sale system enables franchisees to benefit from our purchasing
      power and assists us in monitoring compliance with our quality standards and
      specifications. 

The
      standard Steak n Shake unit franchise agreement has an initial term of 20 years.
      Among other obligations, the agreement requires franchisees to pay an initial
      franchise fee of $40,000 for the first restaurant in a market, $35,000 for
      the
      second unit, and $30,000 for each subsequent unit, and a continuing royalty
      fee
      and service fee both based on gross receipts. The standard franchise agreement
      also requires the franchisee to pay 5% of gross sales for advertising. 
  For
      more
      information on franchising opportunities, visit our website at
 www.steaknshake.com/franchise . 

Competition

The
      restaurant business is one of the most intensely competitive industries in
      the
      United States, with price, menu offerings, location and service all being
      significant competitive factors. Our competitors include national, regional
      and
      local establishments. In all of our current and proposed future market areas,
      there are established competitors with financial and other resources which
      are
      greater than ours. We face competition for sites on which to locate new
      restaurants, as well as for restaurant associates and guests. The restaurant
      business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes and by national,
      regional and local economic conditions and demographic trends. The performance
      of individual restaurants may be affected by factors such as traffic patterns,
      demographic factors, harsh weather conditions, and the type, number and location
      of competing restaurants. Additional factors that may adversely affect the
      restaurant industry in general, and our restaurants in particular, are inflation
      of food, labor and associate benefit costs, negative publicity surrounding
      food
      quality or safety issues, and difficulty in attracting qualified management
      personnel and hourly associates. 

Seasonal
      Aspects   

We
      have
      substantial fixed costs which do not decline as a result of a decline in
      sales.  Our first and second quarters, which include the winter months,
      usually reflect lower average weekly unit volumes as compared to the third
      and
      fourth fiscal quarters.  Additionally, sales in the first two fiscal
      quarters can be adversely affected by severe winter weather.  We also may
      be negatively affected by adverse weather during the first and fourth quarters
      as hurricanes and tropical storms may impact the Southeastern portion of the
      United States, where we have a significant number of restaurants. 

Employees

As
      of
      September 27, 2006, we employed approximately 23,000 associates, of which
      approximately two-thirds were part-time hourly associates.  We consider our
      employee relations to be good and believe that we are providing working
      conditions and wages that compare favorably with the industry. 

Trademarks   

"Steak
        n
        Shake ", "Steak 'n Shake Famous For Steakburgers ", "Famous For Steakburgers ",
        "Takhomasak ", "Faxasak ", "Original Steakburger ", "In Sight It Must Be
        Right ", "Steak n Shake - It s a Meal ", "The Original Steakburger ", "The "Wing
        and Circle"  logo", "Steak n Shake In Sight it Must be Right ", "Takhomacup ",
        "Takhomasak ", "Takhomacard ", "Banawberry ", "Banocolate ", "Strawnilla ",
        "Vanocha ",  "Sippable Sundaes ", and the Company s "storefront design"  
are among the federally registered trademarks and servicemarks owned by the
        Company. "Chocawberry  , "High-n-Low ", "Orangilla ", "Side-by-Side ",
        "Vanawberry ", "Vanocolate "and "Bits  n Pieces" are among the trademarks
        and service marks owned by the Company or for which federal registration
        applications are currently pending. We protect our trademark rights by
        appropriate legal action whenever necessary. 

6

Government
      Regulation   

We
      are
      subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations that might
      impact our business. Each of our restaurants is subject to licensing and
      regulation by a number of governmental authorities, including health and safety
      and fire agencies in the state and municipality in which the restaurant is
      located. The development and construction of restaurants is subject to
      compliance with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations.
      Difficulties in obtaining, or failure to obtain, the required licenses or
      approvals could delay or prevent the development of a new restaurant in a
      particular area. 

Our
      restaurant operations are also subject to federal and state minimum wage laws
      and laws governing such matters as working conditions, child labor, overtime
      and
      tip credits. Many of our restaurant associates are paid at rates related to
      the
      federal and state minimum wage laws, and accordingly, further increases in
      the
      minimum wage would increase our labor costs. 

As
      of
      September 27, 2006, we had franchise operations in ten states and are subject
      to
      certain federal and state laws controlling the offering and conduct of the
      franchise business in those states. In addition, we are subject to franchise
      registration requirements in several states in which we are now conducting
      or
      will conduct franchise business in the future. 

Geographic
      Concentration   

During
      fiscal 2006, approximately 43.2% of our net sales were derived from five defined
      market areas (DMA's):  St. Louis, Missouri (11.8%); Indianapolis, Indiana
      (11.7%); Orlando, Florida (7.2%); Chicago, Illinois (6.6%); and Tampa,
      Florida (5.9%). As a result, operations may be materially affected by weather,
      economic or business conditions within these markets. Also, given our present
      geographic concentration, adverse publicity relating to Steak n Shake
      restaurants could have a more pronounced overall adverse effect on our sales
      than might be the case if our restaurants were more broadly
      dispersed. 

Information
      Available on our Web Site   

We
      make
      available through our web site, free of charge, our filings with the Securities
      and Exchange Commission ("SEC") as soon as reasonably practicable after we
      file
      them electronically with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The reports we make
      available include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
      current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, registration statements, and
      any
      amendments to those documents. In addition, corporate governance documents
      such
      as our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics,
      Whistleblower Policy, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter,
      Compensation Committee Charter, and Audit Committee Charter are posted on our
      web site and are available without charge upon written request. Our web site
      link is    www.steaknshake.com   
      and the
      link to SEC filings and corporate governance documents is    www.steaknshake.com/investing.html   .
      Our
      website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not
      intended to be incorporated into this report on Form 10-K. 

7

Executive
      Officers of the Registrant   

      The
      following table sets forth, as of September 27, 2006, the names, ages, and
      positions held with the Company and its primary subsidiaries, and the date
      on
      which service in such capacities began, of the executive officers of the Company
      and its primary subsidiary: 

(1)
      Member of the Board of Directors of the Company  

8

Mr.
      Blade
      joined the Company as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in
      2004.
      From 1999 to 2004, Mr. Blade was Vice President of Finance for the U.S.
      operations of Cott Corporation. Prior thereto, Mr. Blade served in various
      financial roles for the Kraft Foods Corporation from 1988 to 1999. 

Mr.
      Brown
      joined the Company as Vice President, Finance and
      Investor Relations in 2004.  Prior to joining Steak n Shake he
      worked in various financial roles with the Frito-Lay Company. 

Ms.
      Crosby joined the Company as Senior Vice President, Human Resources in 2003.
      From 2002 to 2003, Ms. Crosby was a consultant. Prior thereto, Ms. Crosby worked
      as Vice President, Human Resources for the Borden Foods Corporation from 1995
      to
      2001.  

Mr. Dooley
      joined Steak n Shake Operations, Inc. as Vice President in 1993 and is
      responsible for engineering and construction.  

Mr.
      Dunn
      joined the Company in 2002 as President and Chief Operating Officer, and was
      subsequently appointed Chief Executive Officer in 2004. Prior to joining Steak
      n
      Shake, Mr. Dunn was President of Borden Foods Corporation, where he worked
      from
      1993 to 2002. Prior thereto, he served in several capacities for Kraft General
      Foods, including General Manager for Claussen Pickle Company and the Marketing
      Manager for Oscar Mayer.  

Mr.
      Faulkner was appointed Vice President, Operations in 2004. Prior thereto, Mr.
      Faulkner served as the Company's Indiana Division Manager from 1994 to 2004
      and
      served in various operational capacities since 1981. 

Mr.
      Geiger was appointed Vice President Controller in 2004. Prior thereto, Mr.
      Geiger was Vice President, Information Systems, Financial Planning and Treasurer
      and served in other various capacities within the Company since
      1993. 

Mr.
      Gilman was elected Chairman during 2003 and has been a Director of the Company
      since 1992. He served as Chief Executive Officer from 1992 until 2004 and as
      President from 1992 until 2002.  

Mr.
      Manns
      was appointed Vice President, Franchising in 2004. Prior thereto, Mr. Manns
      has
      served in various management capacities for the Company in the operations,
      human
      resources, and legal functions since joining the Company in 1994. 

Mr.
      Milne
      was promoted to General Counsel in 2003 and Secretary in 2004 after joining
      the
      Company in 2000. From 1996 to 2000, Mr. Milne was in the private practice of
      law with the firm of Scopelitis, Garvin, Light and Hanson.  

Mr. Reinwald
      was appointed Executive Vice President of the Company in 2004. Prior thereto,
      Mr. Reinwald was Senior Vice President, Operations and National General Manager,
      and has served in various capacities with the Company for more than 40
      years. 

Mr.
      Schiller joined the Company as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer
      in 2005. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Schiller was the Group Director
      for the Marketing Organization for The Coca-Cola Company. 

Mr.
      Vance
      was appointed Vice President - Information Technology in 2006 after having
      served in the capacity of Director of Information Technology since
      2003.  He most recently provided strategic technology
      solutions through consulting with Accenture.   

Mr.
      Walker joined the Company  in 1998 as Senior Vice President. His
      current duties include responsibility for operations, purchasing, distribution
      and franchising. From 1994 to 1998, Mr. Walker was Vice President of Marketing
      -
      Home Care Division for DowBrands L.P. 

Mr.
      Willard joined the Company in 2003 as Vice President, Consumer Insight and
      Innovation. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Willard served as an independent
      consultant. From 1992 to 2001, Mr. Willard served in various management
      capacities with Borden Foods Corporation in the business development and
      marketing functions. 

Mr.
      Williger joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Real Estate and
      Development.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Williger was the Executive
      Director of Real Estate at Applebees International, Inc. 

Officers
      are elected annually at a meeting of the Board of Directors. 

9

ITEM
      1A. RISK FACTORS  

An
          investment in our common stock involves a degree of risk. These risks should
          be
          considered carefully with the uncertainties described below, and all other
          information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other
          filings that we make from time to time with the Securities and Exchange
          Commission, before deciding whether to purchase our common
          stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that
          we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may
          harm our
          business, financial condition results or operations or cash flows. The
          occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial
          condition, results of operations or cash flows. The trading price of our
          common
          stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and you
          may
          lose part or all of your investment.  

Certain
          statements in this report contain forward-looking information. In general,
          forward-looking statements include estimates of future revenues, cash flows,
          capital expenditures, or other financial items, and assumptions underlying
          any
          of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current
          expectations regarding future events and use words such as "anticipate,"
          "believe," "expect," "may," "will," and other similar terminology.  These
          statements speak only as of the date they are made and involve a number
          of risks
          and uncertainties, including those described below, that could cause actual
          results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking
          statements.  Several factors, many beyond our control, could cause actual
          results to differ materially from our expectations.   

Our
          planned expansion may not be successful.   

          We
          are
          currently building new restaurants in our existing markets and expect to
          continue to open additional new restaurants going forward.  Our ability to
          open and profitably operate restaurants is subject to risks such as identifying
          and securing suitable and economically viable locations, negotiating acceptable
          lease or purchase terms for new locations, obtaining required governmental
          permits (including zoning approvals) on a timely basis, complying with
          other
          regulatory requirements, securing necessary contractors, subcontractors
          and
          labor, meeting construction schedules and budgets, increasing labor and
          building
          materials costs, and adverse weather conditions or other acts of God that
          could result in construction delays.  If we are unable to successfully
          manage these risks, we could face increased costs and lower than anticipated
          revenues and earnings in future periods.  

Our
          expansion plan includes adding locations in some of our existing markets.
          Although we have experience in these markets, increasing the number of
          locations
          in these markets may cause us to over-saturate markets and temporarily
          or
          permanently divert guests from our existing restaurants, thereby adversely
          affecting our overall profitability.   We
          also
          plan to open restaurants in markets in which we have little or no meaningful
          experience. Those markets may have different competitive market conditions,
          consumer tastes and discretionary spending habits, which may cause our
          new
          restaurants to be less successful than restaurants in our existing markets.
          This
          could cause us to close restaurants, adversely affecting our overall
          profitability. 

Due
          to our smaller restaurant base, our operating results could be materially
          and
          adversely affected by the negative performance of or the decision to close
          a
          small number of restaurants.   

          Our
          restaurant base is smaller than many other restaurant chains. Accordingly,
          poor
          operating results in one or more of our markets or the decision to close
          even a
          relatively small number of under-performing restaurants could materially
          and
          adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations,
          or
          cash flows.  

Our
          operating results could vary significantly if we are unable to attract
          guests to
          our restaurants and earn their repeat business.  

We
          take
          pride in our ability to attract and retain our guests, however if we do
          not
          deliver an enjoyable dining experience for our guests or are unable to
          provide them with the food quality they expect, they may not return to
          our
          restaurants, and results may be negatively affected.  

Changes
          in guest preferences for casual dining styles or menu items could adversely
          affect our financial
          performance.        

          Changing
          guest preferences, tastes and dietary habits can adversely impact our business
          and financial performance.  We offer a large variety of entrees, side
          dishes and desserts and our continued success depends, in part, on the
          popularity of our product offerings and casual style of dining.  A change
          in guest preferences away from this dining style or our offerings in favor
          of
          other dining styles or offerings may have an adverse effect on our
          business. 

Increases
          in the minimum wage rates by federal or state governments could adversely
          affect
          our business.   

          Many
          of
          our associates are paid wages that relate to federal and state minimum
          wage
          rates.  Any increases in the minimum wage rates may significantly increase
          our restaurant operating costs.  In addition, since our business is
          labor-intensive, shortages in the labor pool or other inflationary pressure
          could increase labor costs, which could harm our financial
          performance. 

Ownership
          and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible
          liabilities   

          We
          own
          the land and building, or lease the land and/or the building for our
          restaurants.  Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated
          with owning and leasing real estate.  In particular, the value of our
          assets could decrease, and our costs could increase, because of changes
          in the
          investment climate for real estate, demographic trends and supply or demand
          for
          the use of the restaurants in the area, as well as liability for environmental
          conditions.  We generally cannot cancel these leases.  If an
          existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it,
          we may,
          nonetheless, be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable
          lease
          including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of
          the lease
          term.  In addition, as each of the leases expires, we may fail to negotiate
          renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could
          cause
          us to close stores in desirable locations. 

10 

Labor
          shortages, an increase in labor costs, or inability to attract qualified
          associates could harm our business.   

          Our
          associates are essential to the operation of our restaurants and our ability
          to
          deliver an enjoyable dining experience to our guests.  If we are unable to
          attract and retain enough qualified restaurant personnel at a reasonable
          cost,
          or if they do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience to our guests,
          our
          results may be negatively affected.  Additionally, competition for
          qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages or provide greater
          benefits, which could result in higher labor costs. 

Fluctuations
          in commodity prices and the availability of commodities, including beef,
          poultry, and dairy could affect our business.   

          A
          significant component of our costs are related to food commodities, including
          beef, poultry, and dairy products, which can be subject to significant
          price
          fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand,
          changes in international commodity markets and other factors. If there
          is a
          substantial increase in prices for these food commodities, and we are unable
          to
          offset the increases with changes in our menu pricing, our results of operation
          may be negatively affected. In addition, we are dependent on frequent deliveries
          of perishable food products that meet certain specifications. Shortages
          or
          interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated
          demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses,
          inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability,
          quality and cost of ingredients, which would likely lower revenues, damage
          our
          reputation and otherwise harm our business. 

Due
          to our geographic locations, certain restaurants are subject to climate
          conditions that could affect operations.   

          Many
          of
          our restaurants are located in the Midwest and Southeast portions of the
          United
          States.  During the first and second fiscal quarters, many restaurants in
          the Midwest may face harsh winter weather conditions.  During the first and
          fourth fiscal quarters, many restaurants in the Southeast may face harsh
          weather
          associated with hurricanes or tropical storms.  These harsh weather
          conditions may make it more difficult for guests to visit our restaurants,
          or
          may necessitate the closure of our restaurants for a period of time.  If
          guests are unable to visit our restaurants, or if our restaurants are closed
          as
          the result of inclement weather, our sales and operating results may be
          negatively affected. 

Unfavorable
          publicity could harm our business.   

          Restaurant
          chains such as ours can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from
          complaints or litigation alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness,
          personal injury caused by food tampering, adverse health effects (including
          obesity) or other concerns stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants.
          Regardless of whether the allegations or complaints are valid, unfavorable
          publicity relating to even just one of our restaurants, could adversely
          affect
          public perception of the entire brand which could immediately and severely
          hurt
          sales and accordingly, revenues and profits. If guests become ill from
          food-borne illnesses, we could also be forced to temporarily close some
          restaurants. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering,
          even those occurring solely at the restaurants of competitors, could, due
          to
          negative publicity about the restaurant industry, adversely affect sales.

We
          are subject to health, employment, environmental and other government
          regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government
          regulations could expose us to litigation, damage our reputation and lower
          profits.   

          We
          are
          subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting our business.
          Restaurant operations are also subject to licensing and regulation by state
          and
          local departments relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and
          safety
          standards, federal and state labor laws (including applicable minimum wage
          requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions and citizenship
          requirements), federal and state laws prohibiting discrimination and other
          laws
          regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans
          with
          Disabilities Act of 1990. If we fail to comply with any of these laws,
          we may be
          subject to governmental action or litigation, and our reputation could
          be
          accordingly harmed. Injury to our reputation would, in turn, likely reduce
          revenues and profits. 

In
          recent
          years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer
          focus on
          nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry. As a result,
          we may
          become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure
          or
          advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional
          content of our food products, which could increase expenses. The operation
          of
          our franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations
          enacted
          by a number of states and rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade
          Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may
          negatively affect our operations, particularly our relationship with
          franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and
          regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals
          could
          result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales.  

We
          may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which
          could
          decrease the value of our brand and products.    

          The
          success of our business depends on the continued ability to use the existing
          trademarks, service marks and other components of our brand to increase
          brand
          awareness and further develop branded products. While we take steps to
          protect
          our intellectual property, our rights to our trademarks could be challenged
          by
          third parties or our use of these trademarks may result in liability for
          trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition, adversely
          affecting our profitability. 

ITEM
      1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

          None 

11 

ITEM
      2.  PROPERTIES  

We
      currently lease 57,066 square feet of executive office space in
      Indianapolis, Indiana, under a lease expiring June 30, 2013. 

We
      also
      have a complex of three buildings located in Bloomington, Illinois, where we
      own
      38,900 square feet of office/warehouse space in two separate buildings, one
      of
      which has cold storage facilities, and lease a 26,300 square foot distribution
      center and division office facility. We lease division offices in Orlando,
      Florida; Cincinnati, Ohio; Columbus, Ohio; Detroit, Michigan; Chicago, Illinois;
      and a division office and administrative facility in Indianapolis, Indiana.
      We
      own division office facilities in St. Louis, Missouri. At September 27, 2006,
      we
      owned one restaurant location that had been leased to a third party. In
      addition, there were 10 restaurants under construction and we
      owned nineteen parcels of land that are being held for future development
      at September 27, 2006. 

As
      of
      September 27, 2006, we operated 274 leased and 155 owned restaurants. 
Restaurant leases for land and building typically are non-cancelable, have
      an
      initial term of 18 to 25 years, renewal terms aggregating twenty years or more
      and require us to pay real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs. 
Of these leases, 176 contain clauses requiring the payment of a percentage
      of sales in excess of a certain threshold as rent in addition to base rent
      requirements.  Restaurants are generally 3,900 square feet and seat
      approximately 100 customers, while a minimal percentage of restaurants have
      a
      similar style but seat 54 to 198 customers and occupy between 1,000 and 6,000
      square feet.  We have lease obligations on two former restaurants which
      have been subleased to others as of September 27, 2006.  These obligations
      primarily relate to restaurant locations disposed of in the late 1970's and
      the
      sublease rentals cover substantially all of our obligations under the primary
      leases. 

SNS
      Investment Company ("SIC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, assists
      qualified franchisees with financing by purchasing or leasing land, constructing
      the restaurant and then leasing or subleasing the land and building to the
      franchisee. SIC leases the land and building for these properties as the primary
      lessee. These leases typically have an initial term of 18 years, renewal options
      aggregating 20 years or more, and require SIC to pay real estate taxes,
      insurance and maintenance costs. As of September 27, 2006, SIC had two land
      and building leases for properties located in  Chattanooga, Tennessee and
      Columbia, Missouri which are being operated by franchisees pursuant to sublease
      agreements. All lease and sublease agreements between SIC and its franchisees
      specifically include triple net lease provisions whereby the franchisee is
      responsible for all real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
      Additionally, SIC has a ground lease for a property in Bloomington,
      Indiana, which is subleased to a third party. 

Restaurant
      Lease Expirations  

Restaurant
      leases are scheduled to expire as follows, assuming the exercise of all renewal
      options: 

ITEM
      3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

We
      are
      engaged in various legal proceedings and have certain unresolved claims pending.
      The ultimate liability, if any, for the aggregate amounts claimed cannot be
      determined at this time. However, management of the Company, believes, based
      on
      examination of these matters and experiences to date, that the ultimate
      liability, if any, in excess of amounts already provided in our consolidated
      financial statements is not likely to have a material adverse effect on our
      results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 

ITEM
      4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

No
      matters were submitted to a vote of shareholders during the fourth quarter
      of
      the fiscal year covered by this Report.  

12 

PART
      II   . 

ITEM
      5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
      PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

Market
      Price Range/Stock Trading   

      Our common
      stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol
      SNS. Stock price quotations can be found in major daily newspapers, in
   The
      Wall Street Journal   
      and on
      our website. The high and low closing sales prices for our common stock, as
      reported on the NYSE for each quarter of the past two fiscal years, are shown
      below: 

We
      did
      not pay cash dividends on our common stock during the two fiscal years reflected
      in the table. As of December 1, 2006, there were approximately 12,000
      record holders of our common stock. 

Share
      Repurchases  

      The
      following table presents a summary of share repurchases made by us: 

The
      share repurchase program previously authorized by the Board of Directors was
      announced on November 16, 2005.  The program allows for the repurchase of
      up to three million shares for a period of two years. 

See
      Item
      12 for "Equity Compensation Plan Information". 

13

ITEM
      6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

(1)
      Fiscal 2006 net income and earnings per share includes the impact of the
      adoption of Statement of Financial Standard No. 123(R), "Share Based
      Payment."  Net after-tax effect was $0.07 per diluted share. 

14

ITEM
      7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
      OF
      OPERATIONS  

The
      Steak
      n Shake Company 

       (Years
      ended September 27, 2006, September 28, 2005, and September 29,
      2004)  

      (Amounts
      in $000s, except per share data) 

In
      the following discussion, the term "same store sales" refers to the sales of
      only those units open eighteen months as of the beginning of the current fiscal
      period being discussed and which remained open through the end of the fiscal
      period. 

The
      Company has a 52/53 week fiscal year ending on the last Wednesday in September.
      Fiscal years 2006 and 2005, which ended on September 27, 2006 and September
      28,
      2005, respectively, contained 52 weeks while fiscal year 2004, which ended
      on
      September 29, 2004, contained 53 weeks. 

For
      an understanding of the significant factors that influenced the performance
      of
      the Company during the past three fiscal years, the following discussion should
      be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related
      notes found elsewhere in this Annual Report. 

Overview               

Business
      Profile   

      In
      fiscal
      2006, we opened 26 new Company-owned restaurants and acquired eight
      existing restaurants from Creative Restaurants Inc. ("CRI"), a franchisee.
      This
      brings the total Company-owned restaurants to 429. Additionally, six new
      franchised units were opened during fiscal 2006 bringing the total number
      of franchised restaurants to 48.  As of September 27, 2006, there were a
      total of 477 Steak n Shake restaurants. 

Company
      Performance   

             We
      reported higher revenues and lower net earnings and diluted earnings per share
      in the year ended September 27, 2006 as compared to the prior year. Total
      revenues increased by 5.3% to $638,822, compared to $606,912 for the same period
      last year. Net earnings decreased 7.3% to $28,001 from $30,222 in the prior
      year, while diluted earnings per share decreased to $1.00 from $1.08.  The
      current year includes a net $0.07 decrease in earnings per share relating to
      the
      adoption of Statement of Financial Standard No. 123(R), "Share Based
      Payments" (SFAS 123(R)), which was not included in the prior year.  The
      prior period included a $912 impairment charge, net of tax, or $0.03 per diluted
      share, related to the decision to close two under-performing
      restaurants. 

The
      keys
      to our revenue growth were primarily due to the addition of twenty-six new
      stores as well as revenues earned from eight CRI stores which were acquired
      at
      the beginning of the fourth quarter 2006.   Fiscal year 2006 revenues
      also included a full year of sales from KRI stores that were purchased at the
      end of the first fiscal quarter in 2005.  In the current year, same stores
      sales decreased by 2.1% for the full year as a result of a decrease in guest
      counts of 6.2% offset by an increase in average guest expenditure of
      4.1%, aided by a 3.1% menu price increase in the current
      year. 

We
      believe the decline in guest counts is due largely to the  impact
      of rising fuel prices, rising interest rates and falling consumer
      confidence that diverted these guests to more traditional quick service
      restaurants ("QSR").   While this change in trend can largely be
      explained by external factors, we were dissatisfied that we were not able to
      grow our guest counts. We are committed to improving both our execution and
      the
      concept to enable us to gain same store sales, even in difficult
      environments. We remain respectful of the fact that the outlook for several
      external environmental factors that affect casual dining trends (such as gas
      prices and interest rates) remains uncertain. 

During
      the year we made substantial progress on key operating measures, new
      product innovation and expansion. We have continued to focus on the
      importance of reducing the turnover of managers and associates. We continued
      to
      reduce associate turnover from a high of 220% in fiscal 2002 to a new record
      low
      of 128% at the end of 2006. Management turnover ended the year at 26% from
      a
      high of approximately 49% in 2002. We are clear these loyal and trained
      associates are driving higher levels of guest satisfaction. The percentage
      of
      guests giving us a perfect five on a five point scale hit a new high of 63%
      at
      the end of 2006, up from 53% when our surveys first began in 2003.  During
      the second half of 2006, we also reduced average drive-through window times,
      allowing us to better serve our customers. 

In
      2006, we also made progress accelerating expansion.  T  he
      26 new
      Company-owned restaurants are on track to deliver average first year sales
      in excess of $1,600. As a result of deeper financial analysis than in the
      past, we discovered the new stores had a greater than anticipated negative
      impact on sales at nearby stores. This cannibalization contributed to the same
      store decline experience, in 2006. The learning from this year will be used
      to fine tune our real estate and market research strategy going forward.

The
      Steak
      'n Shake brand enjoys a great heritage and loyal following. But like all great
      brands it must be refreshed in order to remain vital. In 2007, we will invest
      a
      significant amount of energy and resources towards improved execution and
      concept revitalization.  

15

We
      often refer to a chart which shows that Steak n Shake is in the second of three
      phases of our growth plan. This phase contains two major activities within
      it;
 Strengthening the Foundation  and  Preparing for Expansion." Given the
      challenging same store sales environment that we expect to face in fiscal 2007,
      we have chosen to place additional emphasis on  Strengthening the Foundation. 
By unlocking the same store sales growth potential that exists within the brand,
      through improved execution, innovation and concept optimization, we can provide
      the strong foundation we need to accelerate earnings growth. 

Fiscal
      2007   

      We
      anticipate full-year diluted earnings per share in the range of $0.90 to $1.00.
      The earnings per share estimate is based on a same store sales decline of 3.0%
      to sales growth of 1.0%. We anticipate negative same store sales
      during the first half of the fiscal year, followed by improving same store
      sales
      in the second half of the year which will be driven by new product innovation
      and easier same store sales comparisons. 

During
      the year, we will review all aspects of the organization to ensure that we
      are
      in a strong position to gain sales and have sustained earnings momentum going
      forward. Any actions which would affect cash flow have been estimated and are
      included in the earnings per share guidance above. In addition, we will continue
      reviewing all under-performing stores. Based on our analysis, we will develop
      a
      plan to improve each store's performance or dispose of the assets in instances
      where we believe doing so is in our best interest.  

We
      anticipate opening approximately 15 new Company-owned stores in fiscal 2007
      with
      the expectation that at least two-thirds of the openings will be completed
      in the first half of the fiscal year.  Relative to franchising, we plan to
      open at least seven franchise units during fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2007 capital
      spending is anticipated to be in a range of $75,000 to $85,000, with a net
      capital spend of approximately $45,000 to $55,000, assuming $25,000 to $35,000
      from the sale of real estate, primarily through sale-leaseback transactions.
      The
      breakdown of the capital plan includes $50,000 to $60,000 for new unit
      expansion, which includes new units, land acquisition and rebuild/remodels,
      approximately $15,000 for a new store point-of-sale systems, and approximately
      $10,000 for other project initiatives. 

16

Critical
      Accounting Estimates  

Management s
      discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are
      based upon the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared
      in
      accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
      States of America. The preparation of our financial statements requires us
      to
      make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
      liabilities, expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and
      liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates and our
      assumptions based on historical experience and other factors that are believed
      to be relevant under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these
      estimates under different assumptions or circumstances. 

We
      believe the following critical accounting estimates are our more
      significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated
      financial statements. 

Impairment
      of Long-lived Assets  

      We
      review our restaurants for impairment on a restaurant-by-restaurant basis
      when events or circumstances indicate a possible impairment. We test for
      impairment by comparing the carrying value of the asset to the undiscounted
      future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the total estimated
      future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset, the carrying
      amount is written down to the estimated fair value, and a loss is recognized
      in
      earnings. Because depreciation and amortization expense is based upon useful
      lives of assets and the net salvage value at the end of their lives, significant
      judgment is required in estimating this expense. Additionally, the future cash
      flows expected to be generated by an asset requires significant judgment
      regarding future performance of the asset, fair market value if the asset were
      to be sold, and other financial and economic assumptions. Accordingly, we
      believe that accounting estimates related to long-lived assets are
      critical. 

Insurance
      Reserves  

      We
      self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers'
      compensation, general liability, and auto liability insurance programs. In
      2006
      we began to self-insure our group health insurance risk.  We purchase
      reinsurance for individual and aggregate claims that exceed predetermined
      limits. We record a liability for all unresolved claims and our estimates of
      incurred but not reported ("IBNR") claims at the anticipated cost to the
      Company. The liability estimate is based on information received from insurance
      companies, combined with management's judgments regarding frequency and severity
      of claims, claims development history, and settlement practices. Significant
      judgment is required to estimate IBNR claims as parties have yet to assert
      a
      claim and therefore the degree to which injuries have been incurred, and the
      related costs, have not yet been determined. Additionally, estimates about
      future costs involve significant judgment regarding legislation, case
      jurisdictions and other matters. Accordingly, management believes that estimates
      related to self-insurance reserves are critical. Our reserve for self-insured
      liabilities at September 27, 2006, and September 28, 2005 were $10,521 and
      $3,070, respectively.    

Income
      Taxes  

             We
      record deferred tax assets or liabilities based on differences between financial
      reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities using currently enacted rates
      and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.
      We
      record deferred tax assets to the extent we believe there will be sufficient
      future taxable income to utilize those assets prior to their expiration. To
      the
      extent deferred tax assets would be unable to be utilized, management would
      record a valuation allowance against the unrealizable amount, and record that
      amount as a charge against earnings. Due to changing tax laws and state income
      tax rates, significant judgment is required to estimate the effective tax rate
      expected to apply to tax differences that are expected to reverse in the future.
      We must also make estimates about the sufficiency of taxable income in future
      periods to offset any deductions related to deferred tax assets currently
      recorded. Accordingly, we believe estimates related to income taxes are
      critical. Based on 2006 results, a change of 1% in the annual effective tax
      rate
      would have an impact of $423 on net earnings.  

Goodwill
        and Other Intangible Assets  

        We
        evaluate goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets annually, or
        more frequently if indicators of impairment are present. If the determined
        fair
        values of these assets are less than the related carrying amounts an impairment
        loss is recognized. The methods used to estimate fair value may include future
        cash flow assumptions, which may differ from actual cash flows due to, among
        other things, economic conditions or changes in operating performance.  The
        future cash flows expected to be generated by an asset requires significant
        judgment regarding future performance of the asset, and other financial and
        economic assumptions. Accordingly, we believe that accounting estimates related
        to goodwill and other intangible assets are critical. 

Leases  

We
        lease
        certain properties under operating leases.  We also have many lease
        agreements that contain rent holidays, rent escalation clauses and/or contingent
        rent provisions.  We recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis over
        the expected lease term, including cancelable option periods where failure
        to
        exercise such options would result in an economic penalty.  We use a time
        period for our straight-line rent expense calculation that equals or exceeds
        the
        time period used for depreciation.  In addition, the rent commencement date
        of the lease term is the earlier of the date when we become legally obligated
        for the rent payments or the date when we take access to the grounds for
        buildout.  As the assumptions inherent in determining lease commencement
        and lease expiration dates and other related complexities of accounting for
        leases involve significant judgement, management has determined that lease
        accounting is critical. 

17

Results
      of Operations  

      In
      the
      following table is set forth the percentage relationship to total revenues,
      unless otherwise noted, of items included in the Company's consolidated
      statements of earnings for the periods indicated: 

(Amounts
      in $000s) 

        Fiscal
      2006 compared with Fiscal
      2005                

       Net
      Earnings  

      Net
      earnings decreased in the current year by 7.3% or $2,221 to $28,001, or
      $1.00 per diluted share compared with $30,222 or $1.08 per diluted share, for
      fiscal 2005.  The decrease was primarily driven by the impact of the
      adoption of SFAS 123(R), which had an impact of $0.07 per diluted share coupled
      with the decrease in same stores sales as noted below. 

Net
      Sales  

      For
      the
      year, net sales increased 5.3% from $603,068 to $634,941. The net
      sales gains were due to new Company-owned stores and the acquisition of
      franchise units partially offset by a 2.1% same store sales decline.
      That decline in same store sales was due to a declining guest count of 6.2%
      partially offset by a 4.1% increase in average guest expenditure. In 2006,
      we
      opened 26 new Company-owned stores and acquired eight restaurants in the
      fourth quarter from CRI, a franchisee.  Fiscal 2006 net sales also
      benefited from a full year of sales relating to the acquisition of 17 franchised
      restaurants from KRI during December 2004.  KRI sales during 2006 and 2005
      were $37,765 and $29,750, respectively.  CRI sales during the fourth
      quarter and full year of 2006 were $3,990. 

Cost
      and Expenses  

      In
      2006,
      cost of sales were $143,360 or 22.6% of net sales, compared with $140,078 or
      23.2% of net sales in fiscal 2005.  The decrease as a percentage of
      sales was due primarily to lower commodity costs, the positive impact of
      pricing actions and food cost control measures.  These reductions were
      partially offset by unfavorable mix for premium topping
      STEAKBURGER    sandwiches
      and premium milkshakes. 

Restaurant
        operating costs were $319,070 or 50.3% of net sales compared to $295,202
        or
        49.0% of net sales in the prior year. The increase in absolute
        dollars for labor and fringes was $13,867 or 0.4% increase as a percent of
        net
        sales over the prior year; an increase in utilities of $3,131 or a 0.3% increase
        as a percent of net sales over the prior year, and an increase in repairs
        and
        maintenance of $1,898 or 0.2% increase as a percent of net sales over the
        prior
        year.  

General
      and administrative expenses for fiscal 2006 were $52,949 or 8.3% of
      total revenues compared to $47,902 or 7.9% of total revenues in 2005. The
      increase in general and administrative expenses as a percent of
      sales was attributable to the $2,200 expense related to the expensing of
      stock options and shares issued from our employee stock purchase plan pursuant
      to SFAS 123(R). 

Occupancy
      costs including depreciation and rent expense increased slightly as a percentage
      of total revenues primarily as a result of the decline in same store sales
      as well as the addition of capital assets owned which have increased
      depreciation expense and increased rental rates for new unit leases which
      have affected overall rent expense.  

Interest
        expense as a percent of revenues in fiscal 2006 was $11,373 or 1.8%,
        versus $12,641 or 2.1% in the prior year. The decrease in interest expense
        was due to reduced debt under the senior notes agreement, lower capital lease
        balances and higher capitalized interest from increased land acquisition
        and
        unit construction.  

18 

In
      fiscal
      2006, provision for restaurant closings was a credit of $103 as a
      result of the gain on the sale of one unit that had been closed during a
      prior year.  Fiscal 2005 provision of $1,400 was charged as a result of the
      decision to close two restaurants. 

Pre-opening
      expense was $3,579 or 0.6% of total revenues versus $3,247 or 0.5% of
      revenues in the prior year. The fluctuation is driven by an increase
      in new units from 19 last year to 26 in fiscal year 2006. Pre-opening costs
      per
      restaurant continue to average approximately $150. 

Income
      tax expense was recorded at an effective tax rate of 33.8%, versus 32.0% in
      the
      prior year. The increase in the tax rate in the current year is due to a benefit
      recorded in the fourth quarter of last year of $900 due primarily to the
      favorable resolution of state income tax amounts accrued in prior years. 
In addition, the increase in the effective tax rate over prior year was also
      due
      to the tax effects of the adoption of SFAS 123(R) and an increase in state
      income tax expense. 

Fiscal
      2005 compared with Fiscal
      2004                

Net
      Sales  

      Net
      sales
      in fiscal 2005 increased $53,938 (9.8%) to $603,068 due to the opening of 19
      new
      Company-owned restaurants, the addition of 17 restaurants acquired from KRI
      with 2005 sales of $29,224, and the increase in same store sales of
      2.9%. Fiscal 2004 included an additional week of sales
      of $9,500.  Same store sales included a 3.5% increase in the average
      guest expenditure and a 0.6% decrease in customer traffic.  We had 399
      Company-owned restaurants at September 28, 2005 compared to 365 stores at
      September 29, 2004.  The year was highlighted by the extension of the
      Sippable Sundaes      Milk
      Shakes in 2005 which increased comparable unit shake sales by 11%. 

Cost
      and Expenses  

      Cost
      of
      sales increased $10,620 (8.2%) to $140,078 in fiscal 2005 due to increases
      in
      net sales.  As a percentage of net sales, cost of sales decreased from
      23.6% to 23.2%.  Decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of net
      sales is due primarily to lower commodity costs which the result of the
      positive impact of pricing actions and strong food cost control measures
      compared to fiscal 2004.   

Restaurant
      operating costs increased $25,145 (9.3%) to $295,202 in 2005.  The increase
      is due to the opening of 19 new restaurants and the addition of 17
      restaurants acquired during the year.  As a percentage of net sales,
      restaurant operating costs decreased from 49.2% to 49.0%.  The decrease in
      restaurant operating costs as a percentage of net sales is due to a
      decrease in turnover of employees and management which decreased overall
      training and operating costs.   

General
      and administrative expenses increased $5,538 (13.1%) to $47,902 over
      fiscal 2004 and general and administrative expenses as a
      percentage of total revenues increased from 7.7% to 7.9%.  The overall
      increase is primarily the result of planned investments, including
      investments in our Human Resources and Real Estate Departments and other
      capacities to support expected expansion. 

Interest
      expense is incurred based on borrowings outstanding from long-term debt and
      finance lease obligations including the debt assumed from KRI.  Interest
      expense decreased $438 (3.3%) to $12,641 from fiscal 2004 to
      fiscal 2005. 

Rent
      expense continues to increase year over year as a result of the increase in
      the
      number of leased restaurants that are operated by the Company including the
      addition of KRI restaurants.  The increases in rent expense are also the
      result of the increase in percentage rents resulting from the increase
      in net sales. The increase in 2005 from 2004 was $1,624
      (18.8%) bringing total rent expense to $10,250.  

In
      2005,
      we recorded a charge in our provision for closing costs of $1,400
      before taxes relating to the decision to close two under-performing
      restaurants.  We closed these restaurants in 2006 and prepared the owned
      restaurants for sale.  Similarly, in 2003, we made the decision to
      close nine under-performing restaurants. We sold five of these restaurants
      during 2004 and adjusted the amount of the provision by $394 to reflect the
      gain on the sale of these restaurants.    

Pre-opening
      costs represent the costs to prepare for the opening of new restaurants. 
These costs have increased as we have continued our plan to increase the
      number of restaurants we own and operate.  The increase in 2005
      of $1,149 (54.8%) to $3,247 over fiscal 2004 reflects an increase in number
      of restaurants opened in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 (19 in fiscal
      2005 compared to 16 in fiscal 2004) as well as an increase in the number of
      rebuilds (five in fiscal 2005 compared with two in fiscal
      2004).  Pre-opening costs also include expenses incurred for restaurants
      yet to be opened that are currently under construction.  

The
      effective income tax rate for fiscal 2005 decreased from 35.0% in fiscal 2004
      to
      32.0%.  The decrease in the effective tax rate over the prior year is
      primarily the result of favorable resolution of income tax contingencies.

19 

Restaurant
      Closings  

             In
      September 2005, we identified two under-performing restaurants for disposal
      and
      recorded a charge of $1,400 ($912 net of income taxes or $.03 per diluted share)
      relating to a write-down of related property and equipment to its estimated
      fair
      value.  Similarly in 2003, we identified nine under-performing
      restaurants for disposal. Of the 11 restaurants identified for disposition,
      six have been sold.    We are currently seeking buyers
      for the remaining properties, and anticipate completing the disposal
      of the properties in 2007.  We do not anticipate any significant
      additional future payments related to the store closings, other than the amounts
      accrued as of year-end. 

Effects
      of Governmental Regulations and Inflation  

                   Most
      Steak n Shake employees are paid hourly rates related to federal and state
      minimum wage laws. Any increase in the legal minimum wage would directly
      increase our operating costs. We are also subject to various federal, state
      and
      local laws related to zoning, land use, safety standards, working conditions,
      and accessibility standards. Any changes in these laws that require improvements
      to our restaurants would increase our operating costs. In addition, we are
      subject to franchise registration requirements and certain related federal
      and
      state laws regarding franchise operations. Any changes in these laws could
      affect our ability to attract and retain franchisees. 

Inflation
      in food, labor, fringe benefits, energy costs, transportation costs and
      other operating costs directly affect our operations. Our results of operations
      have not been significantly affected by inflation during the last three fiscal
      years.  

Liquidity
      and Capital Resources   

             We
      generated $69,578 in cash flows from operations during fiscal 2006, primarily
      due to $28,001 in net earnings and depreciation and amortization charges of
      $28,967.  In 2005 we generated $64,279 in cash flows from
      operations, primarily due to $30,222 in net earnings and depreciation and
      amortization charges of $26,945.  

Net
      cash used in investing activities of $87,314 during fiscal 2006 resulted from
      capital expenditures of $80,840 and the acquisition of CRI, a
      franchisee, for $9,598.  There were twenty-six new restaurants opened
      in 2006 as well as eight restaurants acquired.  Additionally, we
      rebuilt two restaurants during 2006.  Net cash used in investing
      activities of $74,873 during 2005 resulted from capital expenditures of $63,622
      and the acquisition of KRI, a franchisee, for $16,082.  There were 19
      new restaurants added in 2005 as well as five restaurants that were
      rebuilt.  We expect to open at least fifteen Company-owned Steak
      n Shake restaurants during 2007 at an average cost of approximately
      $2,000 to $2,500, which includes the land, site improvements,
      building, equipment, and pre-opening costs. Approximately half of
      these units will be land leases or build-to-suit locations. Additionally, we
      plan to rebuild or replace four existing restaurants. The new store
      openings will allow us to continue our expansion in newer markets, while
      also further penetrating existing markets. This level of expansion will allow
      us
      to grow the business in a controlled manner while still focusing on improving
      each and every guest experience. We intend to fund future capital expenditures
      and meet our working capital needs by using anticipated cash flows from
      operations, our existing borrowing facilities, and through
      sale-leaseback transactions.  We currently own the land and buildings
      on approximately one-third of our restaurant sites.  T he
      amount
      and timing of the potential sale leaseback-transactions will be based on both
      our current needs as well as the current market conditions.  

On
      July 6, 2006, we completed the acquisition of CRI for $9,598, which
      included adjustments for working capital and other adjustments.  The eight
      restaurants acquired are located predominately in the Louisville, Kentucky
      market.  Similarly in fiscal 2005, we acquired KRI on December
      29, 2004 for $16,082, which included adjustments for debt repayment, working
      capital and other adjustments. At the acquisition date, KRI operated 17 Steak
      n
      Shake restaurants. We assumed four mortgages on properties related to the KRI
      acquisition, however, three of the four mortgages were paid off during fiscal
      2005.   As of September 27, 2006, the remaining mortgage had a balance
      of $742 at a fixed interest rate of 5%.  

As
      of September 27, 2006, we had outstanding borrowings of $5,572 under our Senior
      Note Agreement and Private Shelf Facility ("Senior Note Agreement"). 
Borrowings under the Senior Note Agreement bear interest at an average fixed
      rate of 7.6%. Our Senior Note Agreement was amended in the current fiscal year
      to extend the expiration of the remaining borrowing capacity of $75,000
      through September 30, 2008.  Subsequent to year-end, we borrowed an
      additional $15,000 through the amended agreement with a maturity of October
      27,
      2011. The interest rate on the additional debt is 5.66%, with interest paid
      quarterly and principal payments due annually, beginning October 27, 2009. 
The $15,000 was used to pay down the borrowings on the Revolving Credit
      Agreement. 

We
      also maintain a $50,000 Revolving Credit Agreement that bears interest based
      on
      LIBOR plus 55 basis points, or the prime rate minus 100 basis points, at
      our election, and matures on January 30, 2008. As of September 27, 2006, we
      had borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $25,065 at a blended
      borrowing rate of 5.9%.  We had no borrowings on the Revolving Credit
      Agreement as of September 28, 2005. We had $3,327 in standby letters
      of credit outstanding as of September 27, 2006 and September 28, 2005. Our
      debt
      agreements contain restrictions, which, among other things, require us to
      maintain certain financial ratios. During 2006 and 2005, we were in
      compliance with the covenants and anticipate compliance in future periods based
      on expected earnings and debt repayment terms. 

20 

Contractual
      Obligations  

Our
      significant contractual obligations and commitments as of September 27, 2006
      are
      shown in the following table. 

(1) 
      Payments include principal and interest. 

       (2) 
      Payments exclude amounts to be paid for contingent rents. 

       (3) 
      Primarily represents cost of sales components in which minimum volume is defined
      in contract terms. 

       (4)  Includes
      liabilities for Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan 

Off
      Balance Sheet Arrangements  

           We
      have no
      off-balance sheet arrangements other than operating leases entered into in
      the
      normal course of business.

New Accounting
      Standards   

In
        July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for
        Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48") which prescribes a recognition
        threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements
        uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. 
This Interpretation requires that we recognize in our financial statements,
        the
        impact of a tax position, if that position is more likely than not of being
        sustained on audit, based solely on the technical merits of the position. 
The accounting provision of FIN 48 will be effective for us beginning in
        fiscal
        2008.  We are in the process of determining the effect, if any, that
        the adoption of FIN 48 will have on our financial statements. 

In
        June 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force reached a consensus on Issue no.
        06-3,
        "How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities
        Should be Presented in the Income Statement" ("EITF 06-3").  The scope of
        EITF 06-3 includes sales, use, value added and some excise taxes that are
        assessed by a governmental authority on specific revenue-producing transactions
        between a seller and customer.  EITF 06-3 states that a company should
        disclose its accounting policy (ie., gross or net presentation) regarding
        the
        presentation of taxes within its scope, and if significant, these disclosures
        should be applied retrospectively to the financial statements for all periods
        represented.  EITF 06-3 is effective for interim and annual reporting
        periods beginning after December 15, 2006, our second quarter of fiscal
        2007.  The adoption of EITF 06-3 is not expected to have a material effect
        on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

On
        September 13, 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) issued Staff
        Accounting Bulletin No. 108 ( SAB 108 ), which provides interpretive guidance on
        how the effects of the carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements
        should
        be considered in quantifying a current year misstatement. SAB 108 is effective
        for the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006, which will be our
        fiscal year 2007. The adoption of this statement is not expected to have
        a
        material impact on our financial position or results of operations. 

Statement
        of
        Accounting Standards No. 154 (SFAS 154 )  Accounting Changes
        and Error Corrections - a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB
        Statement No. 3  was issued in May 2005, effective for fiscal years
        beginning after December 15, 2005. We will comply with the provisions of
        SFAS 154   for any accounting changes or error corrections
        that
        may occur in fiscal year 2007 and thereafter.   

In
        September
        2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
        Accounting Standards No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS 157). SFAS
        157 defines fair value, establishes a formal framework for measuring fair
        value
        and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. We are in the process
        of
        analyzing the impact of SFAS 157, which is effective for fiscal years beginning
        after November 15, 2007.   

21 

ITEM
      7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
      RISK  

      Our
      primary market risk exposure with regard to financial instruments is to changes
      in interest rates. We invest excess cash primarily in cash equivalents due
      to their relatively low credit risk. Interest rates on these securities are
      based upon market rates at the time of purchase and remain fixed until maturity.
      Pursuant to the terms of our Senior Note Agreement, we may from time to time
      borrow in increments of at least $5,000. The interest rate on the notes is
      based
      upon market rates at the time of the borrowing. Once the interest rate is
      established at the time of the initial borrowing, the interest rate remains
      fixed over the term of the underlying note. The Revolving Credit Agreement
      bears
      interest at a rate based upon LIBOR plus 55 basis points or the prime rate
      minus
      100 basis points, at our election. Historically, we have not used derivative
      financial instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. At September
      27, 2006 a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates
      would have an impact of approximately $125 on our
      earnings. 

We purchase
      certain food products which may be affected by volatility in commodity prices
      due to weather conditions, supply levels, and other market conditions. We
      utilize various purchasing and contract pricing techniques to minimize
      volatility, but do not enter into financial derivative contracts. 

22 

ITEM
      8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

To
      the
      Board of Directors and Shareholders of 

      The
      Steak
      n Shake Company 

We
      have
      audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position of The
      Steak n Shake Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of September 27, 2006
      and September 28, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of earnings,
      shareholders  equity, and cash flows for the years ended September 27, 2006,
      September 28, 2005, and September 29, 2004. These financial statements are
      the
      responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
      opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 

We
      conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
      statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
      on a
      test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
      statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
      and
      significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
      financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
      reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In
      our
      opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material
      respects, the consolidated financial position of The Steak n Shake Company
      and
      subsidiaries as of September 27, 2006 and September 28, 2005, and the results
      of
      their operations and their cash flows for the years ended September 27, 2006,
      September 28, 2005, and September 29, 2004, in conformity with accounting
      principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 

As
        discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
        September 29, 2005, the Company changed its method of
        accounting for share-based payments as required by Statement of Financial
        Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment. 

We
      have
      also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company's internal
      control over financial reporting as of September 27, 2006, based on the criteria
      established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the
      Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report
      dated December 8, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's
      assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial
      reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's
      internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/
      Deloitte and Touche LLP 

      Indianapolis,
      Indiana 

      December
      8, 2006 

23 

24 

25 

26 

Consolidated
      Statements of Shareholders' Equity   

      The
      Steak
      n Shake Company 

       (Years
      ended September 27, 2006, September 28, 2005, and September 29,
      2004)  

      (Amounts
      in $000s except share data) 

27 

Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements   

      The
      Steak
      n Shake Company 

      (Years
      ended September 27, 2006, September 28, 2005, and September 29,
      2004) 

      (Amounts
      in $000s except share and per share data) 

1.
      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

Description
      of Business                

      The
      Steak
      n Shake Company's principal business is the operation, development and
      franchising of full service, casual dining restaurants. As of September 27,
      2006, we operated 477 Steak n Shake restaurants including 48 franchised
      restaurants, through our wholly owned subsidiary Steak n Shake Operations,
      Inc.

Fiscal
      Year   

             Our
      fiscal year ends on the last Wednesday
      in September. Fiscal years 2006 and 2005 contain 52 weeks, while fiscal
      year 2004 contains 53 weeks. 

Principles
      of Consolidation   

             The
      consolidated financial statements include the accounts of The Steak n Shake
      Company (parent) and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts
      and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 

Cash,
      Cash Equivalents, and Short-Term Investments   

             Our
      policy is to invest cash in excess of operating requirements in income-producing
      investments. Cash equivalents primarily consist of bank repurchase agreements,
      U.S. Government securities, and money market accounts, all of which have
      maturities of three months or less. Cash equivalents and short-term
      investments are carried at cost, which approximates market value due to their
      short maturities.  We had no short-term investments at September 27, 2006
      or September 28, 2005. 

Receivables               

            We
      carry our accounts receivable at cost less an allowance for doubtful
      accounts which is based on a history of past write-offs and collections and
      current credit conditions. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $74 at
      September 27, 2006 and $69 at September 28, 2005. 

Inventories   

             Inventories
      are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market, and
      consist primarily of restaurant food items and supply inventory. 

Assets
      Held for Sale   

             Assets
      held for sale consists of property and equipment related to under-performing
      restaurants and land that is currently being marketed for disposal. The
      balance at September 27, 2006 is comprised of: Land and Buildings - $4,197;
      Land
      and Leasehold Improvements - $190; and Equipment - $127.  The balance at
      September 28, 2005 is comprised of: Land and Buildings - $1,546; Leasehold
      Improvements - $146; and Equipment - $64. Assets held for sale are reported
      at
      estimated fair value.    

Property
      and Equipment   

             Property
      and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.
      Depreciation and amortization are recognized on the straight-line method over
      the estimated useful lives of the assets (10 to 25 years for buildings and
      land
      improvements, and 3 to 10 years for equipment). Leasehold improvements are
      amortized on the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful
      lives of the improvements or the term of the related leases.       Interest
      costs associated with the construction of new restaurants are capitalized.
      Major
      improvements are also capitalized while repairs and maintenance are expensed
      as
      incurred. We review for impairment our long-lived assets whenever events or
      changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may
      not
      be recoverable. For purposes of this assessment, assets are evaluated on a
      restaurant-by-restaurant basis, the lowest level for which there are
      identifiable cash flows. If the future undiscounted cash flows of an asset
      are
      less than the recorded value, an impairment is recorded for the difference
      between the carrying value and the estimated fair value of the
      asset. 

Goodwill
      and Purchased Intangible Assets   

                     Goodwill
      and indefinite life intangibles are not amortized, but are tested for potential
      impairment on an annual basis, or more often if events or circumstances change
      that could cause goodwill or indefinite life intangibles to become impaired.
      Other purchased intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over
      their estimated useful lives. We perform reviews for impairment of other
      intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
      the
      carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is
      recognized when estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use
      of
      the asset and its eventual disposition are less than its carrying amount. When
      an impairment is identified, we reduce the carrying amount of the asset to
      its estimated fair value. 

Capitalized
      Software   

             Internal-use
      software is stated at cost less accumulated amortization and is amortized using
      the straight-line method over its estimated useful life ranging from three
      to five years. Software assets are reviewed for impairment when events or
      circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable over
      the
      remaining lives of the assets. During the software application development
      stage, capitalized costs include external consulting costs, cost of software
      licenses, and internal payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who
      are
      directly associated with a software project. Upgrades and enhancements are
      capitalized if they result in added functionality which enable the software
      to
      perform tasks it was previously incapable of performing. Software maintenance,
      training, data conversion and business process reengineering costs are expensed
      in the period in which they are incurred.  Capitalized software is included
      in the balance of Other Assets in the Statement of Financial
      Position. 

28 

Revenue
      Recognition   

             We
      record revenues from restaurant sales at the time of sale, net of discounts.
      Revenues from the sale of gift cards are deferred at the time of sale and
      recognized upon redemption of the gift cards by the customer. 

Franchise
      Fees   

            Unit
      franchise fees and area development fees are recorded as revenue when the
      related restaurant begins operations. Royalty fees and administrative services
      fees are based on franchise sales and are recognized as revenue as
      earned. 

Insurance
      Reserves   

             We
      self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our
      workers compensation, general liability, medical, and auto liability insurance
      programs, and record a reserve for our estimated losses on all unresolved
      open claims and our estimated incurred, but not reported claims at the
      anticipated cost to us.    Insurance reserves are recorded in the
      balance of accrued expenses in the Statement of Financial
      Position. 

Earnings
      Per Share   

             Earnings
      per share of common stock is based on the weighted average number of shares
      outstanding during the year. The following table presents a reconciliation
      of
      basic and diluted weighted average common shares as required by Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,    Earnings
      Per Share   . 

Stock-Based
      Compensation   

             We
      adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (Revised 2004),
       Share Based Payment  (SFAS 123(R)) on September 29, 2005. This Statement
      requires that all stock-based compensation, including grants of employee stock
      options and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan, be accounted
      for using the fair value-based method. We elected to adopt SFAS 123(R) using
      the
      modified prospective method. Refer to Note 13 for additional
      information regarding our stock-based compensation. 

Employees 
      401(k) and Profit Sharing Plan   

             The
      Steak n Shake Company's 401(k) and Profit Sharing Plan (the "Plan") is a defined
      contribution plan covering substantially all employees after they have attained
      age 21 and completed one year of service and allows employees to defer up to
      20%
      of their salaries. Company profit sharing contributions to the Plan, which
      are
      subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors, amounted to $1,500 paid
      in
      2005 and $1,854 paid in 2004.  There were no profit sharing
      contributions paid in 2006.  In 2005, we amended the Plan to require a
      Company match equal to 50% of the participants' first 6% of compensation
      deferred.  Matching contributions paid in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 were
      $1,266 and $1,497, respectively. 

Marketing
      Expense   

             Advertising
      costs are charged to expense at the latter of the date the expenditure is
      incurred, or the date the promotional item is first communicated. 

Non-Qualified
        Deferred Compensation Plan   

              We
        maintain a
        self-directed Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Non-qualified
        Plan ) for executive employees. The Non-qualified Plan is structured as a rabbi
        trust and therefore assets in the Non-qualified Plan are subject to creditor
        claims in the event of bankruptcy. We recognize investment assets on the
        Statement of Financial Position at current fair value. A liability of the
        same
        amount is recorded on the Statement of Financial Position representing
        the our obligation to distribute funds to participants. The investment
        assets are classified as trading, and accordingly, realized and unrealized
        gains
        and losses are recognized in income.  

Segments   

             Our
      business, operating and franchising Steak n Shake restaurants, constitutes
      a
      single reportable segment pursuant to the provisions of Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards No. 131, "Disclosure About Segments of an Enterprise and
      Related Information" ("SFAS No 131"). 

Use
      of Estimates       

             Preparation
      of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting
      principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
      management to make estimates and assumptions that effect the amounts reported
      in
      the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results
      could differ from the estimates.  

29 

New Accounting
      Standards   

            In
      July 2006,
      the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in
      Income Taxes" ("FIN 48") which prescribes a recognition threshold and
      measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax
      positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.  This
      Interpretation requires that we recognize in our financial statements, the
      impact of a tax position, if that position is more likely than not of being
      sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position.  The
      accounting provision of FIN 48 will be effective for us beginning in fiscal
      2008.  We are in the process of determining the effect, if any, that
      the adoption of FIN 48 will have on our financial statements. 

In
      June 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force reached a consensus on Issue no.
      06-3,
      "How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities
      Should be Presented in the Income Statement" ("EITF 06-3").  The scope of
      EITF 06-3 includes sales, use, value added and some excise taxes that are
      assessed by a governmental authority on specific revenue-producing transactions
      between a seller and customer.  EITF 06-3 states that a company should
      disclose its accounting policy (ie., gross or net presentation) regarding the
      presentation of taxes within its scope, and if significant, these disclosures
      should be applied retrospectively to the financial statements for all periods
      represented.  EITF 06-3 is effective for interim and annual reporting
      periods beginning after December 15, 2006.  The adoption of EITF 06-3 is
      not expected to have a material effect on our financial position, results of
      operations or cash flows. 

On
      September 13, 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) issued Staff
      Accounting Bulletin No. 108 ( SAB 108 ), which provides interpretive guidance on
      how the effects of the carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements should
      be considered in quantifying a current year misstatement. SAB 108 is effective
      for the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006, which will be our
      fiscal year 2007. The adoption of this statement is not expected to have a
      material impact our financial position or results of operations. 

Statement
      of
      Accounting Standards No. 154 (SFAS 154 )  Accounting Changes
      and Error Corrections - a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB
      Statement No. 3  was issued in May 2005, effective for fiscal years
      beginning after December 15, 2005. We will comply with the provisions of
      SFAS 154   for any accounting changes or error corrections
      that
      may occur in fiscal year 2007 and thereafter.   

In
      September 2006,
      the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS 157). SFAS
      157 defines fair value, establishes a formal framework for measuring fair value
      and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. We are in the process
      of
      analyzing the impact of SFAS 157, which is effective for fiscal years beginning
      after November 15, 2007. 

2.
      Restaurant Closings  

             At
      September 27, 2006, we held five properties that were previously closed due
      to
      under performance.  In addition we held land at five locations that we
      currently have determined should be sold.  We are currently seeking buyers
      for each of these properties, therefore the properties are classified
      as held for sale.  We anticipate that we will dispose of the
      properties in fiscal 2007 and the estimated costs of disposal will not be
      material. 

30 

3. 
        Other Current Assets  

              Other
        current
        assets are comprised of the following: 

4. 
      Property and Equipment  

             Property
      and equipment is comprised of the following: 

Depreciation
      and
      amortization expense for property and equipment for 2006, 2005,
      and 2004 was $27,491, $24,702, and $23,008,
      respectively.   

5. Goodwill
      and Other Intangibles  

Goodwill   

             Goodwill
      consists of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net
      assets acquired related to the acquisitions of Creative Restaurants Inc
      ("CRI") and Kelley Restaurants, Inc. ("KRI"). The acquisitions of CRI and
      KRI took place on July 6, 2006 and December 29, 2004, respectively. 
The Goodwill balance related to the acquisition of CRI is $6,682.  The
      Goodwill balance related to KRI increased from $7,458 in the prior year
      to $7,803 as a result of adjustments to the purchase price.   The
      acquisitions are included in    Note
      13   .     

        Other
      Intangibles   

             Other
      intangibles are comprised of the following: 

Intangible
      assets subject to amortization consist of a right to operate and favorable
      leases acquired in connection with the acquisitions of CRI during fiscal
      2006 and KRI during fiscal 2005 (See Note 12), and are being amortized over
      their estimated weighted average useful lives of 12 years and 8 years,
      respectively.  Amortization expense for 2006, 2005, and 2004 was
      $187, $167, and $120, respectively.  Total annual amortization expense
      for each of the next five years is approximately $200. 

Intangible
      assets with indefinite lives consist of reacquired franchise rights acquired
      in
      connection with the acquisitions of KRI during fiscal 2005 and CRI during fiscal
      2006 (see Note 12), and were recorded in accordance with the provisions of
      Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 04-1, "Accounting for Pre-existing
      Relationships between the Parties to a Business Combination" ("EITF 04-1").

6.
      Other Assets          

      Other
      assets include capitalized software costs, investments related to our
      Non-qualified Plan, and deposits.  Capitalized software costs are amortized
      over the estimated useful lives and related amortization is included in
      depreciation and amortization expense.  Depreciation and amortization
      expense of capitalized software in 2006, 2005, and 2004 was $1,289, $2,076,
      and
      $1,730, respectively. 

31 

7    .
      Accrued Expenses  

             Accrued
      expenses are comprised of the following: 

8.
        Other Long-term Liabilities      

Other
      liabilities include deferred amounts related to our Non-qualified Plan. 
The Non-qualified Plan allows highly compensated employees to defer amounts
      from
      their salaries for retirement savings.  The Non-qualified Plan includes
      an employer match equal to the amount of the match the employee would have
      received as a participant in our 401(k) plan.  Total liabilities for
      the Non-qualified Plan at September 27, 2006 and September 28,
      2005 were $1,736 and $711, respectively.  In addition, other long-term
      liabilities includes the balance of deferred rent expense for escalating rent
      payments.       

9.
      Income Taxes  

             The
      components of the provision for income taxes consist of the
      following: 

Income
      taxes paid totaled $14,796 in 2006, $13,066 in 2005, $13,815 and in
      2004. 

Deferred
      tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial
      reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the
      currently enacted tax rates, and laws that will be in effect when the
      differences are expected to reverse. Our net deferred tax liability consists
      of
      the following: 

32 

10.
      Leased Assets and Lease Commitments   

We
      lease certain physical facilities under non-cancelable lease agreements.
      Steak n Shake restaurant leases typically have initial terms of eighteen to
      twenty-five years and renewal terms aggregating twenty years or more. These
      leases require us to pay real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
      Certain leased facilities, which are no longer operated by the Company s
      subsidiaries, but have been subleased to third parties, are classified below
      as
      non-operating properties. Minimum future rental payments for non-operating
      properties have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of $65 related
      to
      operating leases receivable under non-cancelable subleases. The property and
      equipment cost related to the finance obligations and capital leases as of
      September 27, 2006, is as follows: $75,699 buildings, $64,559 land, $30,598
      land
      and leasehold improvements, equipment $607 and $38,504 accumulated
      depreciation.  At September 27, 2006, obligations under non-cancelable
      finance obligations, capital leases, and operating leases (excluding real estate
      taxes, insurance and maintenance costs) require the following minimum future
      rental payments: 

During
      2006, 2005, and 2004, the Company received net proceeds from sale and
      leaseback transactions aggregating $700, $650, and $600,
      respectively.    

Contingent
      rent totaling $927 in 2006, $1,045 in 2005, and $697 in 2004 is recorded in
      rent expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of
      earnings. 

33 

11.
      Debt  

Revolving
      Credit Agreement      

      We
      amended our Revolving Credit Agreement on September 11, 2006. Under the
      Agreement, the Company can borrow up to $50,000. The Revolving Credit Agreement
      expires on January 30, 2008 and bears interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus
      55
      basis points or the prime rate minus 100 basis points, at our election. At
      September 27, 2006 outstanding borrowings were $25,065 of which $15,000 is
      classified as non-current as this amount was refinanced subsequent to year
      end
      through debt issued under the Senior Note Agreement (See Note 17 "Subsequent
      Events").  The Revolving Credit Agreement had a blended rate of 5.9%
      at September 27, 2006.  

Senior
      Note Agreement       

      Our
        amended
      and restated Senior Note Agreement and Private Shelf Facility (the "Senior
      Note
      Agreement") allows for additional borrowing of up to $75,000 until September
      30,
      2008. As of September 27, 2006, we had borrowings of $5,572 with an average
      interest rate of 7.6% under the Senior Note Agreement. Interest rates are fixed
      based upon market rates at the time of borrowing. Amounts maturing in fiscal
      years 2007 through 2010 are as follows: $2,429, $1,714, $714, and
      $715, respectively.  Subsequent to year end we borrowed an
      additional $15,000 under the Senior Note Agreement.  Proceeds were used to
      pay down borrowings under our Revolving Credit Agreement.  See Note 17
      "Subsequent Events" for additional discussion. 

Other Debt   

      We
      assumed four mortgages on properties in connection with the KRI
      acquisition, three of which were paid off during fiscal 2005. The amount
      outstanding under the remaining mortgage as of September 27, 2006 is $742,
      and
      bears interest at a fixed rate of 5%.  Principal payments in 2007 and 2008
      are $83 and $70, respectively, with the remaining principal balance of $589
      due
      at maturity in August 2008. 

The
      Revolving Credit Agreement and Senior Note Agreement are unsecured and contain
      restrictions, which among other things, require us to maintain certain financial
      ratios. We were in compliance with all restrictive covenants under these
      borrowing agreements at September 27, 2006.  The carrying amounts for debt
      reported in the consolidated statement of financial position do not differ
      materially from their fair market values at September 27, 2006. 

Interest
      capitalized in connection with financing additions to property and equipment
      amounted to $2,057, $906, and $502 in 2006, 2005, and 2004,
      respectively. Interest paid on debt amounted to $1,276 in 2006, $1,887 in 2005,
      and $1,829 in 2004.  Interest paid on obligations under leases was
      $11,980, $11,600 and $11,800 in 2006, 2005, and 2004,
      respectively. 

12.
      Related Party Transactions  

Sale
      of Restaurants to Related Party   

      On
      September 21, 2005, our wholly owned subsidiary, Steak n Shake Operations,
      Inc.,
      entered into a Multiple Uniform Franchise Agreement (the "Agreement") and a
      Personal Property Sales Agreement with Reinwald Enterprises Emory, LLC and
      Reinwald Enterprises Wild Geese, LLC (collectively "Franchisee").  Gary T.
      Reinwald, Executive Vice President of the Company, is a member of both
      limited liability companies, and holds the majority of the equity in the
      Franchisee.  The aggregate consideration paid by the Franchisee for the
      Agreements was $1,800 for the purchase of two Company owned restaurants in
      the
      Knoxville, Tennessee market. We provided and did not participate in
      any of the financing related to this transaction.  Under the Agreement, the
      Franchisee will operate these two existing restaurants, which were previously
      owned and operated by Steak n Shake Operations, Inc. We have
      transferred our ownership and leasehold rights in the restaurants as well as
      all
      personal property located in the restaurants to the Franchisee.  We
      recorded revenues from the Franchisee totaling $118 in 2006. 

Acquisition
      of Kelley Restaurants, Inc.    

      KRI
      was
      acquired by us on December 20, 2004.  The President of Kelley Restaurants,
      Inc. is a member of the Board of Directors of the Company.  See Note 14
      "Acquisitions" for further discussion.  Prior to the acquisition, we
      collected initial franchise fees, royalty fees, and advertising fees from KRI.
      We recorded revenues from KRI totaling $390 and $1,706, in 2005
      and 2004, respectively.   

34 

13. 
      Acquisitions   

Creative
      Restaurants, Inc.   

            On
      July 6,
      2006 we completed our acquisition of CRI for $9,598, which included
      adjustments for working capital and other adjustments.  At the
      acquisition date, CRI operated eight Steak n Shake restaurants in
      Louisville, Kentucky.  This acquisition will allow us to further
      develop the Louisville  market, which is consistent with our long
      term growth plans. 

The
      transaction is being accounted for using the purchase method of accounting
      as
      required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, ("SFAS 141"),
      "Business Combinations."  The purchase price has been allocated to tangible
      and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on
      their estimated fair values at the date of the acquisition.  The excess of
      the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired was recorded
      as
      goodwill.  See Note 4 for further discussion of "Goodwill and Other
      Intangibles."  The allocation of the purchase price to specific assets and
      liabilities is based, in part, upon third party appraisals and internal
      estimates of assets and liabilities.  We are in the process of
      refining our internal fair value estimates primarily related
      to current liabilities.  Therefore, the allocation of the purchase
      price is preliminary and the final allocation may differ.  Based on the
      preliminary purchase price allocation, the following table summarized the fair
      value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition
      date. 

Proforma
      disclosures have been omitted as the acquisition was not
      significant. 

Kelley
        Restaurants, Inc.   

              On
        December
        29, 2004, we acquired KRI for approximately $16,082 after adjustments. 
This acquisition included 17 Steak n Shake restaurants in Atlanta, Georgia
        and
        Charlotte, North Carolina.  The President of KRI is a member of
        our board of directors. 

The
      transaction was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting as
      required by SFAS 141.  The purchase price has been allocated to tangible
      and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on
      their estimated fair values at the date of the acquisition.  The excess of
      the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired was recorded
      as
      goodwill.  See Note 4 for further discussion of "Goodwill and Other
      Intangibles."  The allocation of the purchase price to specific assets and
      liabilities is based, in part, upon third party appraisals and internal
      estimates of assets and liabilities.  Based on the final purchase price
      allocation, the following table summarizes the fair value of the assets acquired
      and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. 

Proforma
        disclosures have been omitted as the acquisition was not
        significant. 

35 

We
      maintain stock-based compensation plans which allow for the issuance of
      incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, and restricted stock
      to
      officers, other key employees, and to members of the Board of Directors. We
      also
      maintain an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") that allows all
      eligible employees to purchase shares of stock at a discounted price.
      We generally use treasury shares to satisfy the issuance of shares under these
      stock-based compensation plans.  Prior to fiscal year 2006, we
      accounted for the plans under the recognition and measurement provisions of
      APB
      Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", and related
      Interpretations ("APB 25"). Accordingly, because all stock options granted
      had
      an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock
      on
      the date of the grant, no expense related to employee stock options was
      recognized. Also, as the ESPP was considered noncompensatory, no expense related
      to this plan was recognized. However, expense related to the grant of restricted
      stock had been recognized in the income statement under APB 25.  As
      discussed in Note 1, effective September 29, 2005, we adopted the fair value
      recognition provisions of SFAS 123(R). This statement applies to all awards
      granted after the effective date and to modifications, repurchases or
      cancellations of existing awards. Additionally, under the modified prospective
      method of adoption, we recognize compensation expense for the portion of
      outstanding awards on the adoption date for which the requisite service period
      has not yet been rendered based on the grant-date fair value of those awards
      calculated under SFAS No. 123 and 148 for pro forma disclosures. Compensation
      expense in fiscal years 2005 and 2004 related to stock options and the employee
      stock purchase plan continues to be disclosed on a pro forma basis only. In
      accordance with the modified prospective transition method, we
      also eliminated the balance of Unamortized Value of Restricted Shares,
      which represented unrecognized compensation cost for non-vested stock awards.
      Financial statements for prior periods have not been restated. 

SFAS
      123(R) requires that forfeitures be estimated over the vesting period of an
      award, rather than being recognized as a reduction of compensation expense
      when
      the forfeiture actually occurs. The cumulative effect of the use of the
      estimated forfeiture method for prior periods upon adoption of SFAS 123(R)
      was
      not material.   

Certain
      of our stock-based compensation plans allow early vesting when an employee
      reaches retirement age and ceases continuous service. Under SFAS 123(R), awards
      granted after September 28, 2005 require acceleration of compensation expense
      through an employee's retirement age, whether or not the employee is expected
      to
      cease continuous service on that date. For awards granted on or before September
      28, 2005, we accelerate compensation expense only in cases where a retirement
      eligible employee is expected to cease continuous service prior to an award's
      vesting date. If the new provisions of SFAS 123(R) had been in effect for awards
      prior to September 29, 2005, compensation expense would not have been materially
      affected during the years ended September 28, 2005 and
      September 29, 2004, respectively. 

The
      following table illustrates the effect on net earnings and earnings per share
      if
      we had applied the fair value recognition provisions to stock-based
      employee compensation in fiscal year 2005 and 2004. 

36 

The
      weighted average fair value of shares granted during the years
      ended September 27, 2006, September 28, 2005 and September 29,
      2004 was $6.05, $6.19, and $6.31, respectively.  We estimate the
      fair value of each grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. 
Expected volatilities are generally based on historical volatility of our
      stock.  We use historical data to estimate the expected life and groups of
      employees that have similar historical behaviors are considered separately
      for
      valuation purposes.  The risk-free rate for periods within the expected
      life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the
      time of grant. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was developed for use
      in
      estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions
      and are fully transferable. In addition, option-pricing models require the
      input
      of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility.
      Because our stock options have characteristics significantly different from
      those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions
      can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's opinion, the
      existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the
      fair
      value of our stock options. The fair value estimates are based on the
      following weighted average assumptions: 

Capital
      Appreciation Plan   

             The
      1997 Capital Appreciation Plan provides for tandem awards of Common Stock
      (restricted shares) and book units of up to 1,067,187 shares and related units.
      These awards are restricted for a period of three years and are returnable
      to us if the grantee is not employed (except for reasons of retirement,
      permanent disability or death) by us at the end of the period. The stock is
      valued at 100% of market value at the date of grant, and the book units, which
      are granted in an equal number to the shares of stock, provide for a cash
      payment at the end of the three-year period equal to the sum of the net change
      in book value per share of the common stock and dividends paid per share
      during the period, as adjusted for stock dividends/splits. The total value
      of
      the stock grant (based upon market value at the date of the grant) is amortized
      to compensation expense ratably over the three-year period. The total number
      of
      shares and book units granted under the 1997 Plan for which restrictions have
      not lapsed was 374,500 at September 27, 2006, and 268,700 at September 28,
      2005.  At September 27, 2006, 275,122 shares were reserved for future
      grants. The weighted average fair value of shares vested during the years
      ended September 27, 2006, September 28, 2005 and September 29,
      2004 was $362, $54, and $1,668, respectively.  The average remaining
      period for which restrictions had not lapsed at September 27, 2006 was 1.24
      years. The amount charged to expense under the Plans was $2,044 (net of tax,
      $1,330) in 2006, $1,634 (net of tax, $1,062) in 2005, and $860 (net of tax,
      $559) in 2004.  Total unrecognized compensation cost at September 27, 2006
      was $2,728. 

The
        following table summarizes the activity under the Capital Appreciation
        Plan: 

Employee
      Stock Option Plans   

             On
      February 8, 2006, our shareholders approved the 2006 Employee Stock Option
      Plan
      (the "2006 Plan").  The 2006 Plan provides for the granting of up
      to 750,000 shares of common stock plus the number of shares that are
      subject to awards granted thereunder that terminate or expire or are cancelled,
      forfeited, exchanged or surrendered during the term of the 2006 Plan without
      being exercised or fully vested.  Options granted under the 2006 Plan
      are exercisable as to 25% on each anniversary of the date of grants until fully
      exercisable.  The options expire ten years from the date of the grant and
      are issued with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of a
      share of common stock on the date of grant.  Options are granted under
      the 2006 Plan to officers and key employees selected by the Compensation
      Committee of the Board of Directors.  As of September 27,
      2006, 309,100 options have been granted under the 2006 Plan and 440,900
      shares are available for future issuance. 

The
      1997
      Employee Stock Option Plan as amended (the "1997 Plan") provides for the
      granting of up to 1,745,313 stock options. Options granted under
      the 1997 Plan through 2005 are exercisable as to 20% on the date of
      grant and 20% on each anniversary of the date of grant thereafter until fully
      exercisable. The options expire either five or ten years from the date of grant
      and are issued with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the
      underlying stock on the date of grant. Options are granted under the 1997 Plan
      to officers and key employees selected by the Compensation Committee of the
      Board of Directors. As of September 27, 2006, 1,537,491 options have been
      granted under the 1997 Plan, and 207,822 shares are available for
      future issuance. 

The
      1995 Employee Stock Option Plan (the "1995 Plan") provides for the granting
      of
      up to 686,297 stock options. Options granted under the 1995 Plan are primarily
      incentive stock options exercisable on the same terms as the 1997 Plan. Options
      were granted under the 1995 Plan to officers and key employees selected by
      the
      Stock Option Committee. At September 27, 2006, 634,543 options have been granted
      under the 1995 Plan and no shares are available for future
      issuance. 

37 

Non-Employee
      Director Stock Option Plans      

      Our
      Non-employee Director Stock Option Plans provide for the grant of non-qualified
      stock options at a price equal to the fair market value of the common stock
      on
      the date of the grant. Options outstanding under each plan through fiscal 2005
      are exercisable as to 20% on the date of grant and 20% on each anniversary
      of
      the date of grant thereafter until fully exercisable. Options outstanding that
      were issued in fiscal 2006 are exercisable as to 25% on each anniversary of
      the
      date until fully exercisable.  The options expire five years from the date
      of grant.  At September 27, 2006, 202,000 options have been granted under
      the Non-employee Director Stock Option Plans and 72,000 shares are available
      for
      future issuance. 

The
      following table summarizes the options activity under all of our Stock Option
      Plans: 

During
      fiscal 2006,
      $1,791 ($1,589, net of tax) was charged to expense related to the stock option
      plans.  The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years
      ended September 27, 2006, September 28, 2005 and September 29, 2004 was $978,
      $2,372, and $1,913, respectively. Total unrecognized stock option compensation
      cost at September 27, 2006 was $2,407 and is expected to be recognized
      over a weighted average period of 2.71 years.  Prior to the adoption
      of SFAS 123(R), we did not record any compensation expense for stock
      options.
 
        Employee
      Stock Purchase Plan        

      Under
      the
      ESPP, a maximum of 1,852,545 shares of Common Stock are available for issuance
      to all eligible employees as determined by the Board of Directors subject to
      a
      limitation of 150,000 shares per year. Unissued shares in any given calendar
      year are available to increase the annual maximum number of shares issuable
      in
      subsequent years. Employees may purchase shares of Common Stock through payroll
      deductions ranging from 2% to 10% of compensation up to a maximum fair market
      value of $10 or a maximum purchase of 1,000 shares per year, whichever is less,
      within the limitations of the offering. Shares are purchased at a 15% discount
      from the lesser of the share price on the first or last day of the year. Shares
      purchased under the plan were 93,309 in 2006, 102,830 in 2005, and 146,787
      in
      2004.  During fiscal 2006, $395 was charged to expense related to the
      Plan.  Total unrecognized compensation cost at September 27, 2006 was $110
      and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of .25
      years.  Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we were not required to
      record compensation expense for the ESPP. 

38 

15.
      Commitments and Contingencies  

      We
      are
      involved in various legal proceedings and have certain unresolved claims
      pending.  We believe, based on examination of these matters and experiences
      to date, that the ultimate liability, if any, in excess of amounts already
      provided in our consolidated financial statements is not likely to have a
      material effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash
      flows.  

16.
      Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information  

             During
      fiscal 2006, we issued 135,500 shares of restricted stock totaling $2,381,
      entered into capital leases of $275, had retirements of $190 and had $3,000
      of
      capital expenditures in accounts payable at year end.  During 2005 we
      issued 139,700 shares valued at $2,478 and had $1,081 of capital expenditures
      in
      accounts payable at year end.  During 2004, we issued 136,000 shares
      valued at $2,104 and entered into capital leases for equipment of $250, and
      for building and land improvements of $821.  Also, in 2004 we had $884 of
      capital expenditures in accounts payable at year end. 

17.
      Stock Repurchase  

                 During
      fiscal 2006, we repurchased a total of 20,400 shares of the Company's
      common stock for a total of $312.  The share repurchase program previously
      authorized by the Board of Directors was announced on November 16, 2005. 
The program allows for the repurchase of up to three million shares for a period
      of two years.  There are currently 2,979,600 shares that may yet be
      purchased under the share repurchase program. 

18.
      Subsequent Events  

      Subsequent
      to the end of our fiscal year, we borrowed $15,000 under our Senior
      Note Agreement bearing interest at a fixed rate.  The notes were
      issued pursuant to the Senior Note Agreement.  Principal payments are
      to be paid one-third each year commencing October 27, 2009.  Interest,
      based on a fixed rate of 5.66%, is required to be paid
      quarterly.  Proceeds from the borrowings were used to pay down a portion of
      the outstanding balance under our Revolving Credit Agreement. 

19.
      Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  

(1)   Our
      fiscal year includes quarters consisting of 12, 16, 12 and 12 weeks,
      respectively.  

     (2)  
We
      define gross profit as revenue less cost
      of sales and restaurant operating costs.

39 

ITEM
      9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
      DISCLOSURE  

Not
      Applicable 

ITEM
      9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     

Based
      on
      an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
      Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(c)) as of September 27, 2006, our Chief
      Executive Officer and Chief Financial officer have concluded, that the Company s
      disclosure controls and procedures are effective.  

There
      were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the
      fiscal quarter ended September 27, 2006 that have materially affected, or are
      reasonably likely to materially affect our  internal control over financial
      reporting. 

40 

REPORT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To
      the Board of Directors and Shareholders of   

       The
      Steak n Shake Company  

We
      have
      audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management s
      Report on Responsibility for Financial Reporting, that The Steak n Shake Company
      and subsidiaries (the  Company ) maintained effective internal control over
      financial reporting as of September 27, 2006, based on criteria established
      in
   Internal
      Control Integrated Framework    issued
      by
      the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  The
      Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
      over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
      control over financial reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an
      opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the
      Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our
      audit. 

We
      conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that
      we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
      effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
      material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
      internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment,
      testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
      control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in
      the
      circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for
      our opinions. 

A
      company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by,
      or
      under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal
      financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by
      the
      company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
      reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
      generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal control
      over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
      to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
      reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
      provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
      permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
      accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
      being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
      of
      the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
      detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company's
      assets that could have a material effect on the financial
      statements. 

Because
      of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
      including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
      controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented
      or
      detected on a timely basis.  Also, projections of any evaluation of the
      effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
      are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of
      changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
      procedures may deteriorate.  

In
      our
      opinion, management's assessment that the Company maintained effective internal
      control over financial reporting as of September 27, 2006, is fairly stated,
      in
      all material respects, based on the criteria established in    Internal
      Control Integrated Framework    issued
      by
      the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Also
      in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
      internal control over financial reporting as of September 27, 2006, based on
      the
      criteria established in    Internal
      Control Integrated Framework    issued
      by
      the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
      Commission. 

We
      have
      also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of
      and
      for the year ended September 27, 2006 of the Company and our report dated
      December 8, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements
      and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the adoption of Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standard No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment. 

/s/
      Deloitte   Touche LLP

Indianapolis,
      Indiana 

      December
      8, 2006 

41 

Management s
      Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

The
      management of The Steak n Shake Company is responsible for establishing and
      maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in
      Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Pursuant to the rules
      and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, internal control
      over
      financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of,
      the
      company s board of directors, principal executive and principal financial
      officers, and effected by management and other personnel, to provide
      reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
      accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and
      includes those policies and procedures that:  

Pertain
                to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately
                and
                fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets of the
                company; 

Provide
                reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
                to permit
                preparation of the financial statements in accordance with accounting
                principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and
                that
                receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
                with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
                and 

Provide
                reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
                unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company s assets that
                could have a material impact on the financial
                statements. 

Ensure
                that material information relating to the company, including its
                consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to management by others
                within
                those entities, particularly during the period which this report
                is being
                prepared. 

Because
      of inherent limitations, a system of internal control over financial reporting
      may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

Management
      has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting
      as of September 27, 2006 based on the criteria set forth in a report entitled
       Internal Control - Integrated Framework , issued by the Committee of
      Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this
      evaluation, we have concluded that, as of September 27, 2006, our internal
      control over financial reporting is effective based on those
      criteria. 

Management s
      assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial
      reporting as of September 27, 2006 has been audited by Deloitte   Touche,
      LLP, the Company s independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in
      their report which is included herein. 

/s/
      Peter
      M. Dunn                 /s/
      Jeffrey A.
      Blade 

       Peter
      M. Dunn                                                            Jeffrey
      A. Blade  

       President
      and                                                            Senior
      Vice President  

       Chief
      Executive Officer                                               and
      Chief Financial Officer  

42 

ITEM
      9B.  OTHER INFORMATION  

None 

PART
      III.  

ITEM
      10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  

The
      information included under the captions "Election of Directors", "Committees
      and
      Meetings of the Board of Directors", "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
      Reporting Compliance", and "Miscellaneous - Code of Business Conduct and Ethics"
      in our definitive Proxy Statement relating to our 2007 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. Certain information relating
      to our executive officers is included in Part I of this Form 10-K under
      "Executive Officers of the Registrant." 

ITEM
      11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

The
      information included under the captions "Compensation of Directors",
      "Compensation of Executive Officers", "Summary Compensation Table", "Options/SAR
      Grants in Last Fiscal Year", "Aggregated Option Exercises in Fiscal 2006 and
      Fiscal Year End Option Values", "Long Term Incentive Plans - Awards in Last
      Fiscal Year", "Report of the Compensation Committee", and "Company Performance"
      in our definitive Proxy Statement relating to our 2007 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM
      12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
      SHAREHOLDER MATTERS  

The
      information contained under the caption "Ownership of Common Stock" in our
      definitive Proxy Statement relating to our 2007 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM
      13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
      INDEPENDENCE  

The
      information contained under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related
      Transactions" in our definitive Proxy Statement relating to our 2007 Annual
      Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM
      14.       PRINCIPAL
      ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

The
      information included in Appendix A in our definitive Proxy Statement relating
      to our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by
      reference. 

43 

PART
      IV.  

ITEM
      15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
      SCHEDULES            

(a)
         Documents
      filed as a part of this report   : 

1.
         Financial
      Statements.   
      The
      following table sets forth the financial statements filed as a part of this
      report: 

Consolidated
      Statements of Financial Position at September 27, 2006 and September 28,
      2005 

For
      the
      years ended September 27, 2006, September 28, 2005, and September 29,
      2004: 

      Consolidated
      Statements of Earnings 

      Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows 

      Consolidated
      Statements of Shareholders' Equity 

      Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements 

Reports
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

      Management's
      Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

2.

   Financial
      Statement Schedules.     

All
      schedules for the years ended September 27, 2006, September 28, 2005, and
      September 29, 2004 have been omitted for the reason that they are not required,
      are not applicable, or the required information is set forth in the financial
      statements or notes thereto. 

3.
         Exhibits.   
      The
      following exhibits are filed as a part of this Annual Report on Form
      10-K. 

3.01 

Amended
                and Restated Articles of Incorporation of The Steak n Shake Company,
                filed
                March 27, 2002. (Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive
                Proxy Statement dated December 19, 2001, related to the 2002 Annual
                Meeting of Shareholders). 

3.02 

Restated
                Bylaws of The Steak n Shake Company, as amended. (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form
                8-K,
                dated March 20, 2006). 

4.01 

Specimen
                certificate representing Common Stock of The Steak n Shake Company.
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.01 to the Registrant's Quarterly
                Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 11,
                2001). 

4.02 

Amended
                and Restated Note Purchase and Private Shelf Agreement by and between
                The
                Steak n Shake Company and The Prudential Insurance Company of America
                dated as of September 20, 2002 related to the $75,000,000 senior
                note
                agreement and private shelf facility. (Incorporated by reference
                to
                Exhibit 4.02 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                year
                ended September 25, 2002). 

4.03 

Amendment
                No. 1 to Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement by and between
                The
                Steak n Shake Company and The Prudential Insurance Company of America
                dated as of December 18, 2002 related to the $75,000,000 senior note
                agreement and private shelf facility. (Incorporated by reference
                to
                Exhibit 4.03 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                year
                ended September 25, 2002). 

44 

4.13 

Amendment
                No. 4 to the Amended and Restated Note Purchase and Private Shelf
                Agreement dated October 27, 2006. (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibits to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated
                November 2, 2006). 

4.14 

Sixth
                Amendment to Credit Agreement by and between The Stake n Shake Company
                and
                Fifth Third Bank, Indiana (Central) dated September 11, 2006.
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s
                Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 15,
                2006. 

10.03
                * 

Consolidated
                Products, Inc. 1995 Employee Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by
                reference
                to the Appendix to the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement dated

January
      12, 1995 related to the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders). 

10.04
                * 

Consolidated
                Products, Inc. 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by
                reference
                to the Appendix to the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement dated

December
      24, 1996 related to the 1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders). 

10.05
                * 

Amendment
                No. 1 to The Steak n Shake Company's (formerly Consolidated Products,
                Inc.) 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference
                to the
                Appendix to the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement dated December
                19,
                2001 related to the 2002 Annual Meeting of
                Shareholders). 

10.06
                * 

Form
                of option agreement related to 2000 Non-employee Director Stock Option
                Program and schedule relating thereto. (Incorporated by reference
                to
                Exhibit  

                10.22
                to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                quarter
                ended July 5, 2000). 

10.07
                *  

Form
                of option agreement related to 2002 Non-employee Director Stock Option
                Program and schedule relating thereto. (Incorporated by reference
                to
                Exhibit  

                10.22
                to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                quarter
                ended December 19, 2001). 

10.11
                * 

The
                Steak n Shake Company Amended and Restated 1997 Capital Appreciation
                Plan.
                (Incorporated by reference to the Appendix to the Registrant s definitive
                Proxy Statement dated December 19, 2003 related to the 2004 Annual
                Meeting
                of Shareholders). 

10.12
                * 

The
                Steak n Shake Company 2004 Director Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated
                by
                reference to the Appendix to the Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement
                dated December 19, 2003 related to the 2004 Annual Meeting of
                Shareholders). 

45 

10.16* 

The
                Steak n Shake Non Qualified Savings Plan (incorporated by reference
                to
                Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the
                fiscal  quarter ended December 22,
                2004.) 

10.26* 

Form of Incentive
              Stock Option Agreement (incorporated herein by reference to
              Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February
              8, 2006). 

10.27

Amendment
              to Employment Agreement between Wayne Kelley and Stake n Shake Operations,
              Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's
              Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 24,
              2006).  

10.28

Senior
              Note Agreement with Prudential Insurance Company of America dated October
              27, 2006.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibits to the
              Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 2,
              2006).          

10.30

Senior
              Note Agreement  with United Omaha Life Insurance Company dated
              October 27, 2006.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibits to the
              Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 2,
              2006). 

23.01 

Consent
                of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, Deloitte   Touche
                LLP. 

*
      Indicates management contract or compensatory plans or arrangements required
      to
      be filed as an Exhibit.  

46 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
      by
      the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on December 8, 2006. 

THE
      STEAK
      N SHAKE COMPANY 

      By:
         /s/
      Jeffrey A. Blade________  

      Jeffrey
      A. Blade 

      Senior
      Vice President and 

      Chief
      Financial Officer 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
      been
      signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
      capacities indicated, on December 8, 2006. 

/s/
                Jeffrey A. Blade 

Senior
                Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Jeffrey
                A. Blade  

(Principal
                Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer) 

/s/
                Peter M. Dunn 

Chief
                Executive Officer and Director 

Peter
                M. Dunn 

(Principal
                Executive Officer) 

/s/
                Alan B. Gilman 

Chairman
                and Director 

Alan
                B. Gilman  

/s/
                Wayne L. Kelley 

Director 

Wayne
                L. Kelley 

/s/
                Charles E. Lanham 

Director 

Charles
                E. Lanham 

/s/
                Dr. Ruth J. Person 

Director 

Dr.
                Ruth J. Person 

/s/
                J. Fred Risk 

Director 

J.
                Fred Risk 

/s/
                Dr. John W. Ryan 

Director 

Dr.
                John W. Ryan 

/s/
                Stephen M. Schmidt 

Director 

Stephen
                M. Schmidt 

/s/
                Edward W. Wilhelm 

Director 

Edward
                W. Wilhelm 

/s/
                James Williamson, Jr. 

Director 

James
                Williamson, Jr. 

47

THE
      STEAK N SHAKE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Index
      to
      Exhibits 

Number 

Description 

(3)       

3.01 

Amended
                and Restated Articles of Incorporation of The Steak n Shake Company,
                filed
                March 27, 2002.  (Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's
                definitive Proxy Statement dated December 19, 2001 related to the
                2002
                Annual Meeting of Shareholders). 

3.02 

Restated
                  Bylaws of The Steak n Shake Company, as amended. (Incorporated
                  by
                  reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on
                  Form 8-K,
                  dated March 20, 2006). 

(4) 

4.01   

Specimen
                certificate representing Common Stock of The Steak n Shake Company
                (formerly Consolidated Products, Inc.). (Incorporated by   reference
                to Exhibit 4.01 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                for the
                fiscal quarter ended April 11,
                2001). 

4.02     

Amended
                and Restated Note Purchase and Private Shelf Agreement by and between
                The
                Steak n Shake Company and The Prudential   Insurance
                Company of America dated as of September 20, 2002 related to $75,000,000
                senior note agreement and private shelf facility.  (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 4.02 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                10-K
                for the year ended September 25,
                2002). 

4.03 

Amendment
                No. 1 to Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement by and between
                The
                Steak n Shake Company and The Prudential   Insurance
                Company of America dated as of December 18, 2002 related to the
                $75,000,000 senior note agreement and private shelf
                facility.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.03 to the
                Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September
                25,
                2002). 

4.13 

Amendment
                No. 4 to the Amended and Restated Note Purchase and Private Shelf
                Agreement dated October 27, 2006. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibits
                to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2,
                2006). 

4.14 

Sixth
                Amendment to Credit Agreement by and between The Stake n Shake Company
                and
                Fifth Third Bank, Indiana (Central) dated September 11, 2006.
                (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s
                Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 15,
                2006. 

(9) 

No
                exhibit. 

48 

10.03* 

Consolidated
                Products, Inc. 1995 Employee Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by
                reference
                to the Appendix to the    Registrant's definitive Proxy  Statement
                dated January 12, 1995 related to the 1995 Annual Meeting of
                Shareholders). 

10.04* 

Consolidated
                Products, Inc. 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by
                reference
                to the Appendix to the registrant's         definitive Proxy Statement
                dated December 24, 1996 related to the 1997 Annual Meeting of
                Shareholders). 

10.05* 

Amendment
                No. 1 to The Steak n Shake Company's (formerly Consolidated Products,
                Inc.) 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated   by
                reference to the Appendix to the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement
                dated December 19, 2001 related to the 2002 Annual Meeting
                of  Shareholders). 

10.06* 

Form
                of option agreement related to 2000 Non-employee Director Stock Option
                Program and schedule relating thereto. (Incorporated
                by  reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Registrant's Quarterly
                Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 5,
                2000). 

10.07* 

From
                of option agreement related to 2002 Non-employee Director Stock Option
                Program and schedule relating thereto. Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.14 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the
                fiscal quarter ended December 19,
                2001). 

10.11* 

The
                Steak n Shake Company Amended and Restated 1997 Capital Appreciation
                Plan.
                (Incorporated by reference to the Appendix to the   Registrant s
                definitive Proxy Statement dated December 19, 2003 related to the
                2004
                Annual Meeting of Shareholders). 

10.12* 

The
                Steak n Shake Company 2004 Director Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated
                by
                reference to the Appendix to the Registrant s definitive   Proxy
                Statement dated December 19, 2003 related to the 2004 Annual Meeting
                of
                Shareholders). 

10.16* 

The
                Steak n Shake Non Qualified Savings Plan (incorporated by reference
                to
                Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the
                fiscal quarter ended December 22,
                2004.) 

49 

10.26* 

Form of Incentive Stock
              Option
              Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrants's
              Current Report on Form 8-k dated February 8,
              2006). 

10.27* 

Amendment to Employment
              Agreement
              between Wayne Kelley and Steak n Shake Operations, Inc. (incorporated
              herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report
              dated March 24, 2006). 

(23)  

23.01 

Consent
                of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, Deloitte   Touche
                LLP. 

*
         Indicates
      management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed
      as an Exhibit. 

50 

<EX-21.01>
 2
 exhibit2101.htm
 10K EXHIBIT 21.01

10k Exhibit 21.01

EXHIBIT
      21.01     

THE
      STEAK
      N SHAKE COMPANY     

Wholly-owned
              Subsidiaries   
                State of Incorporation or
              Organization    

Steak n Shake Operations,
              Inc.  
               Indiana   

Steak
                n Shake, LLC *     

Indiana  

Steak
                n Shake Enterprises, Inc. * 

Indiana   

Consolidated
              Specialty Restaurants, Inc.   
               Indiana   

SNS Investment Company   
               Indiana

*
      Wholly-owned subsidiary of Steak n Shake Operations, Inc.  

51

</EX-21.01>

<EX-23.01>
 3
 exhibit2301.htm
 10K EXHIBIT 23.01

10K Exhibit 23.01

EXHIBIT
      23.01     

CONSENT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We
        consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
        No.
        333-115727 on Form S-3 and Nos. 333-115728 and 333-136941 on Form S-8 of
        our
        reports dated December 8, 2006 relating to the financial statements of The
        Steak n Shake Company (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and
        includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the adoption of Statement of
        Financial Accounting Standard No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment), and to
        management s report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial
        reporting, appearing in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Steak n Shake
        Company for the year ended September 27, 2006.  

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 

        Indianapolis,
        Indiana 

        December
        11, 2006 

52

</EX-23.01>

<EX-31.01>
 4
 exhibit3101.htm
 10K EXHIBIT 31.01

10K Exhibit 31.01

EXHIBIT
      31.01     

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
      AS
      ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    

I,
      Peter
      M. Dunn, certify that:  

1.
      I have
      reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K  of The Steak n Shake Company;

2.
      Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light   of
      the
      circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect
      to the period covered by this report;  

3.
      Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
      condition, results   of
      operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
      presented in this report;  

4.
      The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
      and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15   (e)
      and
      15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange
      Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a)
      Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that  

            material
      information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the

period
      in
      which this report is being prepared;  

(b)
      Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
      over financial reporting to be designed under our  

            supervision, to provide
      reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external  

            purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c)
      Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the

disclosure
      controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
      based on such evaluation; and  

(d)
      Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter

(the
        registrant's
      fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
      affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's

internal
      control   over
      financial reporting; and  

5.
      The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant's auditors   and
      the
      audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
      equivalent functions):  

(a)
      All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to

adversely
        affect
      the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
      information; and  

(b)
      Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over  

            financial
        reporting.

Date
      December 8, 2006 

/s/
      Peter
      M. Dunn       

            Peter
      M. Dunn

President
      and
      Chief Executive Officer   

53

</EX-31.01>

<EX-31.02>
 5
 exhibit3102.htm
 10K EXHIBIT 31.02

10K Exhibit 31.02

EXHIBIT
      31.02     

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
      AS
      ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    

I,
      Jeffrey A. Blade, certify that:  

1.
          I have
          reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K  of The Steak n Shake Company;

2.
          Based
          on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
          material
          fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
          made, in
          light   of
          the
          circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
          respect
          to the period covered by this report;  

3.
          Based
          on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
          included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
          condition, results   of
          operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
          presented in this report;  

4.
          The
          registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
          and
          maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
          Act Rules
          13a-15   (e)
          and
          15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
          Exchange
          Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a)
          Designed
          such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
          and
          procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that  

                material
          information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
          is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
          the

period
          in
          which this report is being prepared;  

(b)
          Designed
          such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
          control
          over financial reporting to be designed under our  

                supervision, to provide
          reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
          the
          preparation of financial statements for external  

                purposes in accordance
          with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c)
          Evaluated
          the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
          and
          presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the

disclosure
          controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
          based on such evaluation; and  

(d)
          Disclosed
          in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
          reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter

(the
            registrant's
          fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
          affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's

internal
          control   over
          financial reporting; and  

5.
          The
          registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
          most
          recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
          registrant's auditors   and
          the
          audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing
          the
          equivalent functions):  

(a)
          All
          significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
          of
          internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to

adversely
            affect
          the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
          information; and  

(b)
          Any
          fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
          who
          have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over  

                financial
            reporting.

Date
          December 8, 2006 

/s/
      Jeffrey A. Blade     

            Jeffrey
      A.
      Blade  

             Senior
      Vice
      President and   Chief
      Financial Officer   

54 

</EX-31.02>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 exhibit321.htm
 10K EXHIBIT 32.1

10K Exhibit 32.1

Exhibit
      32.01  

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO  

18
      U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  

AS
      ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  

SECTION
      906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In
      connection with the Annual Report of The Steak n Shake Company (the "Company")
      on Form 10-K for the period ending September 27, 2006 as filed with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), each
      of
      the undersigned certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350, as adopted
      pursuant to Sec. 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

(1)
      The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)
      The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
      the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/
      Peter M. Dunn  

      Peter
      M.
      Dunn, President and Chief Executive Officer 

      December
      8, 2006 

/s/
      Jeffrey A. Blade  

      Jeffrey
      A. Blade, Senior Vice President and 

      Chief
      Financial Officer 

      December
      8, 2006 

55 

</EX-32.1>

