<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061214_10-K_edgar_data_6951_0000891618-06-000507_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1925996</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>599697</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>937045</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>73</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000891618-06-000507.hdr.sgml : 20061214
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061214143205
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000891618-06-000507
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20061029
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061214
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			APPLIED MATERIALS INC /DE
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000006951
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				941655526
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1026

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-06920
		FILM NUMBER:		061276686

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3050 BOWERS AVE
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95054-3299
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4087275555

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3050 BOWERS AVE
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95054-3299

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	APPLIED MATERIALS TECHNOLOGY INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19730319

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WeU4gialwCGO3C73HE8CbqexLG0Wx7TEmG04ZPBFdmmePJWHuAUJrN+PYx80upxb
 NZoXXQAiZ1kBAlYJ8GKo8Q==

 0000891618-06-000507.txt : 20061214

10-K
 1
 f25754e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED
    STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
     Washington, D.C.
    20549   

Form 10-K   

Commission file number
     000-06920  

Applied Materials,
    Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 

(408) 727-5555  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Stock, par value
    $.01 per share

The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

Rights to Purchase Series A
    Junior Participating Preferred Stock

The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No
     o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer

Large accelerated
    filer         Accelerated
    filer  o      Non-accelerated  o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes  o      No   

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
    non-affiliates of the registrant as of April 30, 2006,
    based upon the closing sale price reported by the Nasdaq
    National Market on that date: $27,977,029,109.

Number of shares outstanding of the registrant s Common
    Stock, $.01 par value, as of November 26, 2006:
    1,392,743,007

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for Applied
    Materials, Inc. s Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
    on March 14, 2007 are incorporated by reference into
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART I   
     Item 1: Business   
     Item 1A: Risk Factors   
     Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments   
     Item 2: Properties   
     Item 3: Legal Proceedings   
     Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
   PART II   
     Item 5: Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
     Item 6: Selected Financial Data   
     Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
     Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
     Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
     Item 9: Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
     Item 9A: Controls and Procedures   
     Item 9B: Other Information   
   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
   PART III   
     Item 10: Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   
     Item 11: Executive Compensation   
     Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
     Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   
     Item 14: Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
   PART IV   
     Item 15: Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
   EXHIBIT 10.36   
   EXHIBIT 10.37   
   EXHIBIT 10.38   
   EXHIBIT 10.39   
   EXHIBIT 10.40   
   EXHIBIT 10.41   
   EXHIBIT 10.42   
   EXHIBIT 12   
   EXHIBIT 21   
   EXHIBIT 23   
   EXHIBIT 24   
   EXHIBIT 31.1   
   EXHIBIT 31.2   
   EXHIBIT 32.1   
   EXHIBIT 32.2   

Table of Contents   

Caution
    Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the
    Company) contains forward-looking statements. All statements in
    this Annual Report, including those made by the management of
    Applied, other than statements of historical fact, are
    forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking
    statements include statements regarding Applied s future
    financial results, operating results, cash flows and cash
    deployment strategies, business strategies, projected costs,
    products, competitive positions, management s plans and
    objectives for future operations, acquisitions and joint
    ventures, growth opportunities, and legal proceedings, as well
    as semiconductor and semiconductor-related industry trends.
    These forward-looking statements are based on management s
    estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof and
    include the assumptions that underlie such statements.
    Forward-looking statements may contain words such as
     may,   will,   should, 
     could,   would,   expect, 
     plan,   anticipate,   believe, 
     estimate,   predict,   potential 
    and  continue,  the negative of these terms, or other
    comparable terminology. Any expectations based on these
    forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
    uncertainties and other important factors, including those
    discussed below and in Item 1A,  Risk Factors. 
    Other risks and uncertainties are disclosed in Applied s
    prior Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. These
    and many other factors could affect Applied s future
    financial condition and operating results and could cause actual
    results to differ materially from expectations based on
    forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by
    Applied or on its behalf. Applied undertakes no obligation to
    revise or update any forward-looking statements.

The following information should be read in conjunction with the
    Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual
    Report. All references to fiscal year apply to Applied s
    fiscal year which ends on the last Sunday in October of each
    year.

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1:    

Business   

Organized in 1967, Applied, a Delaware corporation, develops,
    manufactures, markets and services fabrication equipment for the
    worldwide semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries.
    Customers for these products include manufacturers of
    semiconductor chips and wafers, flat panel displays, and other
    electronic devices such as solar photovoltaic (PV) cells. These
    customers use what they manufacture in their own products or
    sell them to other companies for use in advanced electronic
    components.

During fiscal 2006, Applied made certain changes to its internal
    financial reporting structure and, as a result, is reporting
    four segments: Silicon, Fab Solutions, Display, and Adjacent
    Technologies. A summary of net sales, operating income,
    depreciation/amortization, capital expenditures and assets for
    reportable segments is found in Note 10 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements. A discussion of factors potentially
    affecting Applied s operations is set forth under
     Risk Factors  in Item 1A, which is incorporated
    herein by reference.

Silicon
    Segment  

Applied s Silicon segment comprises a wide range of
    manufacturing equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips.
    Applied currently offers systems that perform most of the
    primary steps in the chip fabrication process, including: atomic
    layer deposition (ALD), chemical vapor deposition (CVD),
    physical vapor deposition (PVD), electrochemical plating (ECP),
    etch, ion implantation, rapid thermal processing (RTP), chemical
    mechanical planarization (CMP), wafer wet cleaning, wafer
    metrology and inspection, and systems that etch, measure and
    inspect circuit patterns on masks used in the photolithography
    process.

Most chips are built on a silicon wafer base and include a
    variety of circuit components, such as transistors and other
    devices, that are connected by multiple layers of wiring
    (interconnects). To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors
    and other circuit components are first created on the surface of
    the wafer by performing a series of processes to deposit and
    selectively remove successive film layers. Similar processes are
    then used to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer.
    As the density of the circuit components increases to enable
    greater computing power in the same or smaller area, the
    complexity of building the chip also increases, necessitating
    more process steps to form smaller structures and more intricate
    wiring schemes. A typical, simplified process sequence for
    building the wiring portion of chips involves initially
    depositing a dielectric film layer onto the base layer of
    circuit components using a CVD system. An etch system is then
    used to create openings and patterns in the dielectric layer. To
    form the metal wiring, these openings and patterns are
    subsequently filled with conducting material using PVD
     and/or  ECP
    technologies. A CMP step then polishes the wafer to achieve a
    flat surface. Additional deposition, etch and CMP steps are then
    performed to build up the layers of wiring needed to complete
    the interconnection of the circuit elements to form the chip.
    Advanced chip designs require about 500 steps involving these
    and other processes to complete the manufacturing cycle.

Over time, the semiconductor industry has migrated to
    increasingly larger wafers to build chips. The predominant wafer
    size used for volume production today is 200 millimeter (mm), or
    eight-inch, wafers, but a substantial number of advanced fabs
    now use 300mm, or
     12-inch, 
    wafers to gain the economic advantages of a larger surface area.
    The majority of new fab capacity is 300mm. Applied offers a
    comprehensive range of systems and, through its Fab Solutions
    segment, products and services to support 200mm and 300mm wafer
    processing.

A majority of process steps used in chipmaking are performed to
    build the interconnect, a complex matrix of microscopic wires
    that carry electrical signals to connect the transistor and
    capacitor components of a chip. While some customers are still
    using aluminum as the main conducting material for the
    interconnect, many have transitioned to copper. Copper has lower
    resistance than aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller
    area. Applied is the leading supplier of systems for
    manufacturing copper-based chips, and supplies systems for
    depositing, etching and planarizing the copper interconnect
    layers.

Complementing the transition to copper to improve chip speed is
    the use of low dielectric constant (low k) films to replace
    silicon dioxide material as the insulator between the copper
    wiring structures. Applied leads the industry in providing low k
    dielectric systems to chip manufacturers and many of these
    customers use the Company s

1

Table of Contents   

Applied Producer Black
    Diamond   
    system in volume production. Applied s second-generation
    system for low k dielectric film, the Applied Producer Black
    Diamond II, further reduces the dielectric constant to
    enhance the speed of customers  most advanced chip designs.

The transistor portion of the chip is another area in which
    semiconductor manufacturers are improving their device designs
    to enhance speed. Applied has the industry s largest
    portfolio of technically advanced products for building smaller
    and faster transistors. One such area is strain engineering, a
    technique that stretches or compresses the space between atoms,
    allowing current to flow more quickly, thus greatly enhancing
    chip performance. Applied leads the equipment industry in
    providing solutions to enable these applications with products
    such as its Applied Producer Stress Nitride, Applied Producer
    HARP (high aspect ratio process) and Applied Centura Epi systems.

Most of Applied s products are single-wafer systems with
    multiple process chambers attached to a base platform. Each
    wafer is processed separately in its own environment, allowing
    precise process control, while the system s multiple
    chambers enable simultaneous, high productivity manufacturing.
    Applied sells most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems on
    four basic platforms: the
    Centura   ,
    the
    Endura   ,
    the
    Producer   
    and the
    Vantage   .
    These platforms currently support ALD, CVD, PVD, etch and RTP
    technologies.

The following summarizes Applied s portfolio of products
    and their associated process technology areas reported under its
    Silicon segment.

Deposition   

Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During
    deposition, layers of dielectric (an insulator), barrier, or
    electrically conductive (typically metal) films are deposited or
    grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to
    perform the four main types of deposition: ALD, CVD, PVD and
    ECP. In addition, Applied s RTP systems can be used to
    perform certain types of dielectric deposition.

Atomic
    Layer Deposition  

ALD is an emerging technology in which atoms are deposited one
    layer at a time to build chip structures. This technology
    enables customers to fabricate thin films of either conducting
    or insulating material with uniform coverage in
     sub-nanometer 
    sized structures. Applied offers ALD chambers for depositing
    tungsten and tantalum nitride films. The Applied Endura
    iCuBS  tm  
    product is the industry s first system to integrate ALD and
    PVD chambers on a single platform for depositing critical
    barrier and seed layers in copper interconnects. The Applied
    Centura
    iSprint  tm  
    Tungsten system (iSprint) combines an ALD chamber, which
    deposits a tungsten nucleation film, with a CVD tungsten bulk
    fill process in one system. The iSprint is used to form contact
    structures that connect the transistors to the wiring areas of
    the chip.

Chemical
    Vapor Deposition  

CVD is used by customers to deposit dielectric and metal films
    on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of
    the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming
    a thin film of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be
    silicon oxide, single-crystal epitaxial silicon, amorphous
    silicon, silicon nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings,
    low k dielectric (for highly efficient insulating materials),
    aluminum, titanium, titanium nitride, polysilicon, tungsten,
    refractory metals or silicides. Applied offers the following CVD
    products and technologies:

The Applied Producer CVD system    This
    high-throughput platform features
    Twin-Chamber  tm  
    modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up
    to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer
    platform, giving it a simultaneous processing capacity of six
    wafers. Many dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this
    platform. Key processes that help chipmakers extend their
    current lithography tools are the Applied Producer
    APF-e  tm  
    (advanced patterning film) and the Applied Producer
    DARC   
    (dielectric anti-reflective coating) films. Together, they
    provide a film stack with the precise dimensional control and
    compatibility needed to cost-effectively pattern nano-scale
    features without additional integration complexity.

2

Table of Contents   

The Applied Centura Ultima
    HDP-CVD   
    system    High-density plasma CVD (HDP-CVD) is used
    to fill very small, deep spaces (gap-fill) with dielectric film.
    This product is used by a number of major integrated circuit
    manufacturers for gap-fill applications, including the
    deposition of silicon oxides in substrate isolation structures,
    contacts and interconnects.

Low k Dielectric Films    Many integrated
    circuit manufacturers are now incorporating new low k dielectric
    materials in their copper-based chip designs to further improve
    interconnect speed. The Applied Producer Black Diamond CVD low k
    system is being used by several customers in volume production
    to produce some of the industry s most advanced devices.
    Using conventional CVD equipment, the Black Diamond product
    provides customers with a proven, cost-effective way to
    transition to this new material. The Applied Producer Black
    Diamond II is a second-generation dielectric that provides
    a lower k-value film for building faster 65 nanometer (nm)
    generation and below chip designs. A complementary low k
    dielectric, called the Applied Producer
    BLOk  tm  
    (Barrier low k), enables the complete, multi-layer dielectric
    structure to benefit from low k technology.

Epitaxial Deposition    Epitaxial silicon
    (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform
    crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base
    for the device circuitry. Epi technology is used in an
    increasing number of integrated circuit devices in both the
    wafer substrate and transistor areas of a chip to enhance speed.
    The Applied Centura Epi system integrates pre- and post-epi
    processes on the same system to improve film quality and reduce
    production costs. This system is also being used for
    silicon-germanium epi technology, which can reduce power usage
    and increase speed in certain types of advanced chips. For
    emerging transistor designs, the Applied Centura RP Epi system
    offers selective epi processes to enable faster transistor
    switching without the need to shrink the scale of the device.

Polysilicon Deposition    Polysilicon is a type
    of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure
    within the integrated circuit device. The Applied Centura
    Polygen  tm  
    LPCVD (low pressure chemical vapor deposition) system is a
    single-wafer, multi-chamber product that deposits thin,
    polysilicon films at high temperatures to create transistor gate
    structures. To address the challenging requirements of shrinking
    transistor gate structures, the Applied Centura DPN Gate Stack
    system integrates chambers for decoupled plasma nitridation
    (DPN), RTP anneal and polysilicon deposition on one platform to
    enable superior film quality and material properties.

Silicon Nitride Deposition    The Applied
    Centura
    SiNgen   
     Plus  LPCVD system is a single-wafer, high-temperature
    system that deposits silicon nitride films for transistor
    applications. This system minimizes the amount of time the wafer
    is exposed to high temperatures and reduces particles while
    improving operating cost and productivity in critical transistor
    nitride layers.

Aluminum Deposition    In fiscal 2006, the
    Company introduced its Applied CVD Al (aluminum) process
    technology for building high-density interconnects in Flash and
    DRAM memory chips. Aluminum continues to be the material used by
    many memory manufacturers for interconnects. This advanced
    process, for
     sub-90nm 
    generations, enables customers to replace tungsten structures
    with aluminum to achieve faster chips with fewer steps and less
    cost.

Tungsten Deposition    Tungsten is used in the
    contact area of a chip that connects the transistors to the
    wiring circuitry. In aluminum-based devices, tungsten is also
    used in the structures that connect the multiple layers of
    aluminum wiring. The Company has two products for depositing
    tungsten: the Applied
    Centura Sprint   
    Tungsten CVD system for 90nm and below devices and the Applied
    Centura iSprint ALD/CVD system for more advanced applications.
    The latter product combines ALD technology and CVD chambers on
    the same platform.

Physical
    Vapor Deposition  

PVD, also called sputtering, is a physical process in which
    atoms of a gas, such as argon, are accelerated toward a metal
    target. The metal atoms chip off, or sputter away, and are then
    deposited on the wafer. Applied leads the industry in PVD
    technology with its Applied Endura PVD system. This system
    offers a broad range of advanced

3

Table of Contents   

deposition processes, including aluminum, aluminum alloys,
    cobalt, titanium/titanium nitride, tantalum/tantalum nitride,
    tungsten/tungsten nitride, nickel, vanadium and copper (Cu).

The Applied Endura CuBS (copper barrier/seed) PVD system is
    widely used by customers for fabricating copper-based chips.
    Using PVD technology, the system deposits critical layers that
    prevent copper material from entering other areas of the device
    and primes the structure for the subsequent deposition of bulk
    copper by electrochemical plating. In fiscal 2006, Applied
    enhanced this system with new pre-clean chamber technology,
    extending the system s capabilities to 45nm-generation and
    below copper-low k interconnects.

The Applied Endura system s highly flexible, multi-chamber
    architecture allows the integration of multiple PVD processes or
    combinations of metal CVD and PVD technologies on the same
    system. In addition to the integrated Applied Endura iCuBS
    ALD/PVD system (discussed in the Atomic Layer Deposition
    section), the Applied Endura
    iLB  tm  
    (integrated liner barrier) system combines a PVD chamber for
    depositing titanium with a CVD chamber for titanium nitride
    deposition to form critical lining layers of interconnect
    structures. These structures are subsequently filled with
    tungsten, aluminum or other materials. In fiscal 2006, Applied
    announced significant advances to its Endura iLB system to meet
    the requirements of customers  leading-edge device designs.

Electrochemical
    Plating  

Electrochemical plating is a process by which metal atoms from a
    chemical fluid (an electrolyte) are deposited on the surface of
    an immersed object. Its main application in the semiconductor
    industry is to deposit copper in interconnect wiring structures.
    This process step follows the deposition of barrier and seed
    layers that prevent the copper from contaminating other areas of
    the device and improve the adhesion of the copper film.

The Applied
    SlimCell  tm  
    ECP (electrochemical plating) system offers a small-volume cell
    design that enables a reduction in defect levels compared to
    conventional systems while reducing chemical consumption.

Etch   

Etching is used many times throughout the integrated circuit
    manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the
    surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated
    with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist. A
    photolithography process then projects the circuit pattern onto
    the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by
    the photoresist pattern. Applied offers a full range of systems
    for etching dielectric, metal and silicon films to meet the
    requirements of
     sub-100nm 
    processing.

For dielectric applications, the Applied Centura
    eMax   
    system etches a broad range of dielectric films in the contact
    and interconnect regions of the chip. Applied s Producer
    Etch system utilizes the Company s Twin-Chamber Producer
    platform concept to target cost-sensitive dielectric etch
    applications in 90nm and below design geometries. To address
    advanced low k etch applications, the Applied Centura
    Enabler   
    Etch system performs etch, strip and clean steps in a single
    chamber. The Enabler s
     all-in-one 
    capability streamlines the process flow for 65nm and below chip
    designs and significantly reduces operating costs.

The Applied Centura
    AdvantEdge  tm  
    Silicon Etch system offers chipmakers high precision gate
    etching for 65nm and 45nm-generation devices. For etching
    metals, Applied launched the Applied Centura AdvantEdge Metal
    Etch system in fiscal 2006. This system enables customers to
    extend aluminum interconnect technology to
     sub-70nm 
    dimensions for Flash and DRAM memory applications.

Ion
    Implantation   

During ion implantation, silicon wafers are bombarded by a beam
    of ions, called dopants, that penetrate (or implant) the film
    surface to a desired depth. The implantation step is used during
    transistor fabrication to change electrical properties of a
    material and achieve a particular electrical performance.
    Low-energy, high current implant technology is important to
    enabling the fabrication of smaller structures, which
    contributes to faster transistor performance. The Applied
    Quantum   
    X  Plus  Implant system provides chipmakers with a
    production-worthy, single-wafer, high-current implanter that
    enables transistor scaling beyond the 45nm node. The Quantum X
     Plus  system s fixed beam and precision mechanical
    scanning system provide precise energy control and low defect
    levels to deliver the process technology needed to achieve the
    most difficult and critical implants.

4

Table of Contents   

Rapid
    Thermal Processing   

RTP is a process in which a wafer is subjected to rapid bursts
    of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to
    more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. A rapid
    thermal process is used mainly for modifying the properties of
    deposited films. The Applied Centura
    Radiance    Plus
     and Applied Vantage Radiance Plus  RTP systems feature
    the same advanced RTP technology with differing platform
    designs. While the multi-chamber Centura platform offers
    exceptional process flexibility, the streamlined two-chamber
    Vantage platform is designed for dedicated high-volume
    manufacturing. These single-wafer RTP systems are also used for
    growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films, deposition
    steps that traditional large batch furnaces can no longer
    achieve with the necessary precision and control. For flash
    memory applications, the Applied Vantage
    RadOx  tm  
    system deposits high-performance transistor gate oxides with
    high productivity and low operating cost.

Chemical
    Mechanical Planarization   

The CMP process removes material from a wafer to create a flat
    (planarized) surface. This process allows subsequent
    photolithography patterning steps to occur with greater accuracy
    and enables film layers to build with minimal height variations.
    The Company s 200mm Applied Mirra
    Mesa   
    systems and 300mm Applied
    Reflexion   
    systems led the industry in CMP technology with important
    features such as integrated cleaning, film measurement and
    process control capabilities. The Company s 300mm Applied
    Reflexion LK
    Ecmp  tm  
    system features proprietary electrochemical mechanical
    planarization technology to provide a high-performance,
    cost-effective and extendible solution for copper/low k
    interconnects at the 65nm node and below. The Ecmp system
    removes bulk copper at a high rate by electric charge, making it
    ideal for fragile ultra-low k films.

Metrology
    and Wafer Inspection   

Applied offers several types of products that are used to
    measure and inspect the wafer during various stages of the
    fabrication process:

Critical
    Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes
    (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs)  

Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to
    form images of microscopic features, or critical dimensions
    (CDs), of a patterned wafer at extremely high magnification.
    Applied s SEM products or systems provide customers with
    full automation, along with the high accuracy and sensitivity
    needed for measuring very small CDs. The Applied
    VeritySEM  tm  
    Metrology system uses proprietary SEM imaging technology to
    enable precise control of the lithography and etching processes.
    The VeritySEM measures CDs with less than 5 angstrom
    precision   a requirement for 45nm device
    production   and incorporates automation and software
    advancements for significantly higher throughput in production.
    The Company s OPC
    Check  tm  
    software for the VeritySEM system performs automated
    qualification of OPC-based (optical proximity correction) chip
    designs, significantly reducing mask (see Mask Making section
    below) verification time over conventional manual methods.

DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (such as particles,
    scratches or residues) that are first located by a defect
    detection system and then classify the defects to identify their
    source. The high-throughput, fully automatic Applied
    SEMVision  tm  
    G3 Defect Analysis products enable customers to use this
    technology as an integral part of their production lines to
    analyze defects as small as 30nm with industry-leading
    throughput. The Applied SEMVision G3 FIB integrates advanced
    defect review SEM capability with automated focused ion beam
    (FIB) technology in one system. The FIB provides a
    cross-sectional view of the defects reviewed by the SEM,
    enabling chipmakers to analyze the defects in minutes as part of
    their in-line review process.

Wafer
    Inspection  

Using laser-based technology, defects can be detected on
    patterned wafers (wafers with printed circuit images) as they
    move between processing steps. Defects include particles, open
    circuit lines, and shorts between lines. Incorporating key
    advances in imaging technology, the Applied ComPlus
    3T  tm  
    Inspection system, for darkfield applications, detects defects
    in devices with design rules of 65nm and below with the high
    speed required for customers  volume production lines. The
    Applied
    UVision  tm  
    Inspection system is the industry s first laser-based 3D
    brightfield tool. Utilizing multi-beam, deep ultraviolet (DUV)
    laser illumination and high efficiency detectors, the

5

Table of Contents   

UVision system uncovers critical defects on the wafer that have
    not been detected before by other inspection systems, enabling
    customers to rapidly resolve performance-limiting defect issues
    and achieve greater chip yields.

Mask
    Making   

Masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer
    microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since an imperfection
    in a mask may be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be
    virtually defect-free. Applied provides systems for etching,
    measuring and inspecting masks. The Applied Tetra II Mask
    etch system is based on the Company s production-proven
    decoupled plasma source (DPS) wafer etch technology and is the
    semiconductor industry s most advanced etch tool for
    fabricating masks. The Applied RETicle SEM system, built on
    Applied s proven CD-SEM platform, measures virtually all
    mask types with
     sub-1nm 
    precision, meeting the requirements of the industry s most
    advanced masks.

Fab
    Solutions Segment  

Through its Fab Solutions segment, Applied provides products and
    services designed to improve the performance and productivity of
    semiconductor manufacturers  fab operations. These products
    embody the in-depth expertise and best known methods of
    Applied s extensive global support infrastructure.

Fab Solutions serves a critical role in Applied s ability
    to continuously support customers  production requirements.
    Approximately 3,100 trained customer engineers and process
    support engineers are deployed in more than a dozen countries.
    These engineers are usually located at or near customers 
    fab sites and service over 20,000 installed Applied systems and
    non-Applied systems.

Applied offers a broad range of products to maintain, service
    and optimize the operations of customers  fabs. Applied
    Materials Genuine
    Parts  tm  
    include spare parts manufactured to Applied s strict
    technical specifications and quality standards. Applied
    Certified Service
    Products  tm  
    provide customers with optimized tool performance for improved
    total cost of ownership and a higher return on investment.
    Applied also offers remanufactured equipment, product
    enhancements and technical training for customers.

As part of its eService Solutions, Applied offers
    FAB300  tm  ,
    a manufacturing execution system (MES), to monitor and control
    fab manufacturing activities. This system is used in
    semiconductor fabs, test, assembly and packaging facilities, and
    flat panel display (FPD) manufacturing facilities. Applied also
    offers a suite of diagnostic software that links hardware,
    process and service data from different processing systems
    throughout the fab. The Applied
    NeXus  tm  
    SPC product is a new diagnostic tool that performs split-second
    analysis of process conditions in Applied s processing
    systems.

Metron Technology, Inc. (Metron), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
    Applied Materials, offers a range of products and services for
    fab operations support. Metron s products include fab and
     sub-fab 
    systems, wafer management services, chamber performance
    services, gas and fluid handling components, and other services
    that are critical to semiconductor manufacturing. With
    Metron s acquisition of ChemTrace in fiscal 2006, Metron
    now offers chipmakers a wide range of services to analyze and
    identify the sources of surface or airborne contamination.
    Metron also offers
    EcoSys   
    treatment systems to address a broad spectrum of semiconductor
    abatement applications. These energy-saving solutions enable
    chipmakers to meet their most stringent environmental goals.

Display
    Segment  

Applied also manufactures and services equipment to fabricate
    flat panel displays (FPDs). These systems are used by FPD
    manufacturers to build and test thin-film transistor liquid
    crystal display (TFT-LCD) panels for televisions, computer
    displays and other consumer-oriented electronic applications.
    While similarities exist between the technologies utilized in
    chipmaking and display fabrication, there are significant
    differences, such as in the size and composition of the
    substrate (wafer  vs.  panel). FPD panels can be more than
    70 times larger in area than today s largest wafers (300mm
    diameter), and wafers are made of silicon, while FPD panels are
    made of glass.

Applied supplies a wide range of systems that process and test
    many different panel sizes. To meet consumers  growing
    demand for larger, more cost-efficient LCD TVs, FPD
    manufacturers have continually increased the size of panels that
    can be processed. Leading-edge substrates, sized at 2.2 x 2.5
    meters (m), now processed by Generation

6

Table of Contents   

(Gen) 8.5 systems, are designed to enable the production of up
    to six
     55-inch  LCD
    TV screens. Applied announced three new systems for
    manufacturing Gen-8.5 panels in October 2006.

The AKT-55K PECVD (plasma-enhanced CVD) system, used for
    fabricating the transistor layer of Gen-8.5 panels, features
    Applied s multi-chamber platform architecture. For
    fabricating the color filter layer of these panels, Applied
    offers a fully automated vertical sputtering system, the AKT-NEW
    ARISTO  tm  
    2200. Applied acquired the NEW
    ARISTO  tm  
    technology during fiscal 2006 as part of its acquisition of
    Applied Films Corporation (Applied Films).

Complementing these systems, Applied also offers electron beam
    systems for testing substrates during production for defective
    pixels and other imperfections. The AKT-55K EBT is a Gen-8.5
    tester that features one of the industry s fastest and most
    accurate pixel test technology with the lowest operating cost.
    The electron beam system s non-contact test technology
    enables safe testing of high-value LCD TV panels without
    damaging or scratching the display.

Adjacent
    Technologies Segment  

The acquisition of Applied Films, a supplier of thin film
    deposition equipment, accelerated Applied s entry into
    growing new markets, such as solar PV cells, flexible
    electronics and energy-efficient glass.

In the solar PV area, Applied offers a suite of manufacturing
    systems to enable customers to increase the conversion
    efficiency and yields of their PV devices, thus helping to lower
    the overall cost per watt for solar electricity. These include
    equipment as well as processes, material-handling technologies
    and services to support the manufacture of both
    crystalline-silicon and thin-film silicon solar cells.
    Applied s
    ATON  tm  
    in-line sputtering system provides quality deposition, high
    throughput and low cost of ownership for both thin-film and
    multi-or mono-crystalline silicon.

Applied also provides high-performance,
     roll-to-roll 
    vacuum web coating systems for depositing a wide range of films
    on flexible substrates for functional, aesthetic or optical
    properties. The
    TOPMET  tm  
    system is capable of handling substrates in roll widths from
    1.25-4.5m with high throughput and low cost of ownership.

Applied offers large-area sputter coating equipment for the
    production of low-emissivity and solar control architectural
    glass. The AXL
    870  tm  
    coating system is a highly flexible and cost-effective tool that
    customers can easily reconfigure to produce a variety of
    products to meet the challenges of a changing market.

Backlog  

Applied s backlog increased from $2.6 billion at
    October 30, 2005 to $3.4 billion at October 29,
    2006. Applied manufactures its systems based on order backlog
    and customer commitments. Backlog includes only orders for which
    written authorizations have been accepted and shipment dates
    within 12 months have been assigned, or shipment has
    occurred but revenue has not been recognized, and also includes
    contractual service revenue and maintenance fees to be earned
    within the next 12 months. Backlog increased
    $285 million as a result of the acquisition of Applied
    Films during fiscal 2006. Backlog adjustments for fiscal 2006
    totaled $194 million, which consisted primarily of
    cancellations and currency adjustments. Customers may delay
    delivery of products or cancel orders prior to shipment, subject
    to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible changes in
    delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, Applied s
    backlog on any particular date is not necessarily indicative of
    actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery
    schedules
     and/or  a
    reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a
    material adverse effect on Applied s business and results
    of operations.

Manufacturing,
    Raw Materials and Supplies  

Applied s manufacturing activities consist primarily of
    assembling various commercial and proprietary components into
    finished systems. Products in the Silicon segment are
    manufactured in Austin, Texas; Horsham, England; and Rehovot,
    Israel. Remanufactured products in the Fab Solutions segment are
    produced primarily in Austin, Texas. Products in the Display
    segment are manufactured in Santa Clara, California;
    Alzenau, Germany; and Tainan, Taiwan. Products in the Adjacent
    Technologies segment are primarily manufactured in Alzenau,
    Germany. Manufacturing requires raw materials, including a wide
    variety of mechanical and electrical components,

7

Table of Contents   

to be manufactured to Applied s specifications. Applied
    uses numerous companies to supply parts, components and
    subassemblies (parts) for the manufacture and support of its
    products. Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure
    that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this
    is not always possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be
    obtained from only a single supplier or a limited group of
    suppliers. Applied will continue to seek to reduce costs and to
    lower the risks of production and service interruptions, as well
    as shortages of key parts, by: (1) qualifying and selecting
    alternate suppliers for key parts; (2) monitoring the
    financial condition of key suppliers; (3) maintaining
    appropriate inventories of key parts; and (4) qualifying
    new parts on a timely basis.

Research,
    Development and Engineering  

Applied s long-term growth strategy requires continued
    development of new products. Applied s significant
    investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E)
    has generally enabled it to deliver new products and
    technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus
    allowing customers to incorporate these products into their
    manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology
    selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers
    to design systems and processes that meet their planned
    technical and production requirements. Product development and
    engineering organizations are located primarily in the United
    States, as well as in Europe and Israel. In addition, Applied
    outsources certain RD&E activities, some of which are
    performed outside the United States. Process support and
    customer demonstration laboratories are located in the United
    States, Europe and Israel.

Applied invested $992 million (12 percent of net
    sales) for fiscal 2004, $941 million (13 percent of
    net sales) for fiscal 2005 and $1.2 billion
    (13 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2006 in RD&E for
    product development and engineering programs to create new
    products and to improve existing technologies and products.
    Applied has spent an average of 15 percent of net sales on
    RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for
    specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing
    programs for automation control systems, materials research and
    environmental control that have applications to its products. In
    fiscal 2006, Applied focused on developing systems for
    customers  new chip designs with 65nm and below geometries,
    including systems to enable faster and denser transistor and
    interconnect structures.

Marketing
    and Sales  

Applied manages its business and reports financial results based
    on the segments described above. Because of the highly technical
    nature of the products, Applied markets and sells products
    worldwide through a direct sales force. For fiscal 2006, net
    sales to customers in each region as a percentage of
    Applied s total net sales were: Taiwan 23 percent,
    North America (primarily the United States) 19 percent,
    Korea 18 percent, Japan 16 percent, Asia-Pacific
    (including China) 13 percent, and Europe 11 percent.

General economic conditions impact Applied s business and
    financial results. From time to time, the markets in which
    products are sold experience weak economic conditions that may
    negatively impact sales. Applied s business is usually not
    seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical, based on capital
    equipment investment by major semiconductor, flat panel display
    and other manufacturers. These expenditures depend on many
    factors, including anticipated market demand and pricing for
    semiconductors, flat panel displays, solar cells, architectural
    glass and other substrates; the development of new technologies;
    factory utilization; and global and regional economic conditions.

During fiscal 2006, more than 80 percent of Applied s
    net sales were to regions outside of the United States. Managing
    Applied s global operations presents challenges and
    involves uncertainties that may affect Applied s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.

Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and
    long-lived assets attributable to Applied s geographic
    regions is included in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. During fiscal 2004, no individual customer
    accounted for more than 10 percent of Applied s net
    sales. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. accounted for
    10 percent of Applied s net sales in 2005 and
    11 percent of Applied s net sales in 2006. These net
    sales were for products in multiple reportable segments.

8

Table of Contents   

Competition  

The global semiconductor equipment and related industries are
    highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological
    change. Applied s ability to compete depends primarily on
    its ability to commercialize its technology, continually improve
    its products and develop new products that meet constantly
    evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors
    include technical capability and differentiation, productivity
    and cost-effectiveness. The importance of these factors varies
    according to customers  needs, including product
    requirements, applications and the timing and circumstances of
    purchasing decisions. Substantial competition exists in all
    areas of Applied s business. Competitors range from small
    companies that compete with a single product
     and/or  in a
    single region, to global companies with a range of products.
    Applied s ability to compete requires a high level of
    investment in RD&E and in marketing, sales and customer
    support activities. Management believes that Applied s
    products have strong competitive positions. Applied is a global
    leader in the semiconductor equipment and related markets. In
    addition, Applied is expanding into adjacent markets where
    customers may benefit from the Company s expertise in
    nanomanufacturing technologies.

The competitive environment for each segment is described below:

Products within the Silicon segment are subject to rapid change,
    with customers frequently moving to smaller dimensions, larger
    wafer sizes and new materials for fabricating chips. While
    certain existing technologies may be adapted to new
    requirements, some applications create the need for an entirely
    different technical approach. The rapid pace of technological
    change creates opportunities for many existing and new
    competitors, and can quickly diminish the value of current
    technologies. To compete effectively, Applied must offer a broad
    portfolio of technically differentiated products. Applied must
    allocate resources across these products and may not fund or
    invest in individual products to the same degree as competitors
    who specialize in fewer products.

Products and services within the Fab Solutions segment are
    subject to a highly competitive environment characterized by
    demanding worldwide service requirements and a diverse group of
    competitors. To compete effectively, Applied must offer products
    and services to help reduce costs and improve the productivity
    of customers  fab operations. Significant competitive
    factors include productivity, cost-effectiveness, and the level
    of technical service and support. The importance of these
    factors varies according to customers  needs and the type
    of products or services offered.

Products and services within the Display segment are highly
    specialized, with a limited number of major competitors located
    primarily in Asia. Applied is the leader in PECVD and color
    filter (CF) sputtering equipment markets and is a leader in the
    array test equipment market. Applied has recently entered the
    PVD market.

Products and services within the Adjacent Technologies segment
    compete in diverse markets, including solar, flexible
    electronics and energy-efficient glass. Applied has recently
    entered these markets, which have established competitors. In
    solar, Applied offers products utilizing two distinct
    technologies, wafer-based and thin film, and is focused on the
    emerging thin film area. Flexible electronics equipment competes
    in a relatively fragmented market. Applied s glass coating
    equipment has one major competitor.

Patents
    and Licenses  

Management believes that Applied s competitive position is
    significantly dependent upon its skills in research,
    development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing, and not
    just on its patent position. However, protection of
    Applied s technological assets by obtaining and enforcing
    intellectual property rights, including patents, is important.
    Therefore, Applied s practice is to file patent
    applications in the United States and other countries for
    inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has a
    substantial number of patents in the United States and other
    countries, and additional applications are pending for new
    developments. Although Applied does not consider its business
    materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied
    and the products made and sold under its patents, taken as a
    whole, are a significant element of Applied s business. In
    addition to patents, Applied also possesses other intellectual
    property, including trademarks, knowhow, trade secrets and
    copyrights.

Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements
    with other companies when management determines that it is in
    its best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under
    existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of
    its products, of certain patented technologies that are licensed
    to Applied for the life of the

9

Table of Contents   

patents. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted
    to third parties. Royalties received from and paid to third
    parties have not been and are not expected to be material in
    relation to Applied s consolidated results of operations.

In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives
    and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In
    dealing with such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful
    for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights.
    However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights
    will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms.
    If Applied is not able to resolve or settle claims, obtain
    necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms
     and/or 
    successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.

Environmental
    Matters  

Two of Applied s locations have been designated as
    environmental cleanup sites. In 1987, the United States
    Environmental Protection Agency designated one of the locations,
    in Santa Clara, California, as a Superfund site and named
    Applied as a  Responsible Party.  Cleanup activities
    at this site began in 1984 and were substantially completed in
    February 2002. The California Regional Water Quality Control
    Board designated Applied as a  Discharger  with
    respect to another site in Sunnyvale, California. Applied was
    named a Discharger upon its acquisition of the property in 1997
    solely due to its status as property owner. The prior owners of
    the site
     and/or 
    operators who caused the contamination are responsible for
    performing cleanup and monitoring activities. In addition,
    Applied has become aware of soil and groundwater contamination
    at levels exceeding regulatory requirements at its facility in
    Narita, Japan, which it believes was caused by a former owner or
    operator of the property. Applied is continuing its
    investigation of the contamination and is working with local
    authorities to determine what further action may be required.

Applied maintains a number of environmental, health and safety
    programs that are primarily preventive in nature. As part of
    these programs, Applied regularly monitors ongoing compliance
    and periodically conducts investigations of possible
    contamination.

Compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating
    discharge of materials into the environment, remedial agreements
    and other actions relating to the environment have not had, and
    are not expected to have, a material effect on Applied s
    capital expenditures, competitive position, financial condition
    or results of operations.

The most recent report on Applied s environmental, health
    and safety activities can be found on the Company s website
    at
     http://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/environment.html. 
    This report is updated periodically. This website address is
    intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the
    information contained on Applied s website is part of this
    report or is incorporated by reference herein.

Employees  

At October 29, 2006, Applied employed 14,072 regular
    employees and 1,033 temporary employees. In the high-technology
    industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense.
    Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent
    upon its continued ability to attract, retain and motivate
    qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will
    be able to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient
    number of qualified employees.

10

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

The following table and notes set forth information about
    Applied s executive officers:

Name of Individual 

Position 

James C. Morgan(1)

Chairman of the Board of Directors

Michael R. Splinter(2)

President, Chief Executive Officer
    and Director

Franz Janker(3)

Executive Vice President, Sales
    and Marketing

George S. Davis(4)

Senior Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer

Manfred Kerschbaum(5)

Senior Vice President, General
    Manager Applied Global Services

Farhad Moghadam(6)

Senior Vice President, General
    Manager Thin Films Product Business Group and Foundation
    Engineering

Mark R. Pinto(7)

Senior Vice President, Chief
    Technology Officer and General Manager New Business and New
    Products Group

Thomas St. Dennis(8)

Senior Vice President, General
    Manager Etch, Cleans, Front End and Implant Product Business
    Groups

Joseph J. Sweeney(9)

Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Corporate Secretary

Nancy H. Handel(10)

Senior Vice President, Finance

Gilad Almogy(11)

Group Vice President, General
    Manager Process Diagnostics and Control Product Business Group

Ron Kifer(12)

Group Vice President, Chief
    Information Officer, Global Information Services

Yvonne Weatherford(13)

Corporate Vice President,
    Corporate Controller

(1)  

Mr. Morgan, age 68, has been Chairman of the Board of
    Directors of Applied since 1987. Mr. Morgan served as
    Applied s Chief Executive Officer from February 1977 to
    April 2003, and as Applied s President from 1976 to 1987. 

(2)  

Mr. Splinter, age 56, serves as President, Chief
    Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of
    Applied. Prior to joining Applied in April 2003,
    Mr. Splinter worked for nearly 20 years at Intel
    Corporation (Intel). Most recently he was Executive Vice
    President and Director of the Sales and Marketing Group at
    Intel, responsible for sales and operations worldwide.
    Mr. Splinter previously held various executive positions at
    Intel, including Executive Vice President and General Manager of
    the Technology and Manufacturing Group. 

(3)  

Mr. Janker, age 57, has been the head of Sales and
    Marketing since May 2003. Beginning in May 2003, he was Senior
    Vice President, Sales and Marketing, and in December 2004 he was
    promoted to Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing. He
    served as Senior Vice President, Global Operations and Corporate
    Marketing beginning in December of 2002. From December 1998 to
    2002, he served as Group Vice President, Corporate Marketing and
    Business Management. From 1982 to 1998, Mr. Janker served
    in a variety of sales and marketing management positions with
    Applied in the United States and Europe. 

(4)  

Mr. Davis, age 49, was promoted to Senior Vice President,
    Chief Financial Officer in December 2006. Mr. Davis
    was appointed Group Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
    effective November 1, 2006. Previously, he had been Group
    Vice President, General Manager Corporate Business Development
    since February 2005. From November 1999 to February 2005,
    Mr. Davis served as Vice President and Corporate Treasurer,
    where he managed Applied s worldwide treasury operations
    and was responsible for investments, tax, financial risk
    management, and trade and export matters. Mr. Davis joined
    Applied in 1999. 

(5)  

Mr. Kerschbaum, age 52, has been Senior Vice
    President, General Manager Applied Global Services since January
    2005. He was Group Vice President, Global Operations from July
    2004 to January 2005 and from October 2002 to May 2003. From May
    2003 to July 2004, he was Group Vice President, Foundation  

11

Table of Contents   

Engineering and Operations. From March 1997 to October 2002, he
    held various positions in Applied Materials North America, most
    recently as Group Vice President, General Manager Applied
    Materials North America. Mr. Kerschbaum has served in
    various other operations, customer service and engineering
    positions since joining Applied in 1983. 

(6)  

Dr. Moghadam, age 52, has been Senior Vice President,
    General Manager Thin Films Product Business Group and Foundation
    Engineering since September 2004. He became Group Vice
    President, General Manager Dielectric Systems and Modules
    Product Business Group and Foundation Engineering and Operations
    in April 2004, after serving as Group Vice President, General
    Manager Dielectric Systems and Modules Product Business Group
    since December 2002. He was named Corporate Vice President of
    the Chemical Vapor Deposition Product Business Group in December
    1999. Dr. Moghadam earned his Ph.D in Materials Science and
    Engineering from Stanford University. 

(7)  

Dr. Pinto, age 47, has served as Senior Vice
    President, Chief Technology Officer and General Manager New
    Business and New Products Group since joining Applied in January
    2004. Prior to his appointment, Dr. Pinto spent
    19 years with Bell Laboratories and the Lucent
    Microelectronics Group, which later became Agere Systems Inc.,
    most recently as Vice President of the Analog Products Division.
    Dr. Pinto holds a Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from
    Stanford University. 

(8)  

Mr. St. Dennis, age 53, returned to Applied in
    September 2005 as Senior Vice President, General Manager Etch,
    Cleans, Front End and Implant Product Business Groups. He
    previously was with Applied from 1992 to 1999, most recently as
    Group Vice President, Planarization and Dielectric Deposition
    Product Business Group and before that as Corporate Vice
    President, Physical Vapor Deposition Product Business Group.
    From 2003 to 2005, Mr. St. Dennis was an Executive Vice
    President and member of the Office of the CEO of Novellus
    Systems, Inc. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer
    of Wind River Systems, Inc. from 1999 to 2003. 

(9)  

Mr. Sweeney, age 58, has held the position of Senior
    Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of
    Applied since July 2005, with responsibility for global legal
    affairs, intellectual property and security. From April 2002 to
    July 2005, Mr. Sweeney was Group Vice President, Legal
    Affairs and Intellectual Property, and Corporate Secretary.
    Mr. Sweeney joined Applied in 1993. 

(10)  

Ms. Handel, age 55, Senior Vice President, Finance,
    was Chief Financial Officer from October 2004 to November 2006.
    She was Group Vice President, Deputy Chief Financial Officer and
    Corporate Controller from 2000 to 2004. From 1994 to 2000,
    Ms. Handel had responsibility for Global Finance Operations
    in addition to serving as Treasurer. From 1986 to 1994,
    Ms. Handel served as Treasurer. Ms. Handel joined
    Applied in 1985. Ms. Handel has announced her intention to
    retire. 

(11)  

Dr. Almogy, age 41, was appointed Group Vice
    President, General Manager Process Diagnostics and Control
    Product Business Group in July 2005. He was Corporate Vice
    President, General Manager of the group from April 2002 to July
    2005 and Vice President and Co-General Manager of the group from
    December 2000 to April 2002. He has held various other positions
    in the group since joining Applied in 1997 when Applied acquired
    Orbot Instruments, Ltd. Dr. Almogy holds a Ph.D in Applied
    Physics from the California Institute of Technology. 

(12)  

Mr. Kifer, age 55, joined Applied in May 2006 as Group
    Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Global Information
    Services. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Kifer spent
    5 years with DHL Express in various executive management
    roles, most recently as the Senior Vice President and Chief
    Information Officer for North America, Asia Pacific and Emerging
    Markets. 

(13)  

Ms. Weatherford, age 55, has served as Corporate Vice
    President, Corporate Controller since December 2004.
    Ms. Weatherford was Appointed Vice President, Business
    Operations Controller from December 2001 to December 2004 and
    Appointed Vice President, Financial Operations Controller from
    October 2000 to December 2001. She has held various other
    finance roles since joining Applied in 1990. 

Available
    Information  

Applied s website is
     http://www.appliedmaterials.com.  Applied makes available
    free of charge, on or through its website, its annual, quarterly
    and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as
    soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such
    reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. This website
    address is

12

Table of Contents   

intended to be an inactive textual reference only and none of
    the information contained on Applied s website is part of
    this report or is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 1A:    

Risk
    Factors   

The
    industries that Applied serves is volatile and
    unpredictable.   

As a supplier to the global semiconductor and
    semiconductor-related industries, Applied is subject to business
    cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be
    difficult to predict. The industries have historically been
    cyclical due to sudden changes in demand and manufacturing
    capacity, including capacity using the latest technology. The
    effect on Applied of these changes in demand, including
    end-customer demand, is occurring more rapidly, exacerbating the
    volatility of these cycles. These changes have affected the
    timing and amounts of customers  purchases and investments
    in technology, and continue to affect Applied s orders, net
    sales, gross margin, contributed profit and results of
    operations.

Applied must effectively manage its resources and production
    capacity to meet changing demand. During periods of increasing
    demand for semiconductor and semiconductor-related manufacturing
    equipment, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity
    and inventory to meet customer demand and must be able to
    attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified
    individuals and effectively manage its supply chain. During
    periods of decreasing demand, Applied must be able to
    appropriately align its cost structure with prevailing market
    conditions, effectively motivate and retain key employees, and
    effectively manage its supply chain. If Applied is not able to
    timely and appropriately align its cost structure with business
    conditions
     and/or 
    effectively manage its resources and production capacity,
    including its supply chain, during changes in demand,
    Applied s business, financial condition or results of
    operations may be materially and adversely affected.

Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the
    semiconductor and
     semiconductor-related 
    industries.   

The global industries in which Applied operates are
    characterized by ongoing changes, including: (1) changes in
    customers  capacity requirements, capacity utilization and
    capital spending, which depend in part on the demand for
    customers  products and their inventory levels relative to
    demand; (2) the importance of reducing the cost of system
    ownership, due in part to the increasing significance of
    consumer electronics as a driver for semiconductor and display
    demand and the related focus on lower prices; (3) varying
    levels of business information technology spending;
    (4) increasingly complex technology requirements, including
    a significant rise in the number and importance of new materials
    and importance of expertise in chemical processes and device
    structure; (5) the growing types and varieties of
    semiconductors and expanding number of applications across
    multiple substrate sizes, resulting in customers  divergent
    technical demands and different rates of spending on capital
    equipment; (6) customers  varying adoption rates of
    new technology; (7) a rising percentage of business from
    customers in Asia and the emergence of customers, competitors
    and suppliers in new geographical regions; (8) demand for
    shorter cycle times for the development, manufacture and
    installation of manufacturing equipment; (9) the heightened
    importance to customers of system reliability and productivity,
    and the effect on demand for systems as a result of their
    increasing productivity, device yield and reliability;
    (10) differing rates of market growth for, and capital
    investments by, various semiconductor device makers, such as
    memory (including NAND flash and DRAM), logic, foundry, display
    and solar; (11) customers  increasing use of
    partnerships, alliances, joint ventures and industry consortia,
    which has increased the influence of key integrated circuit
    manufacturers in technology decisions made by their global
    partners; (12) higher capital requirements for building and
    operating new semiconductor fabrication plants; (13) the
    increasing difficulty for customers to move from product design
    to volume manufacturing; (14) the challenge to
    semiconductor manufacturers of moving volume manufacturing from
    one technology node to the next smaller technology node and the
    resulting impact on the technology transition rate;
    (15) the increasing cost and reduced affordability of
    research and development due to many factors, including
    decreasing linewidths and the increasing number of materials,
    applications and process steps; (16) the industry growth
    rate; (17) the increasing importance of the availability of
    spare parts to assure maximum system uptime; (18) concern
    among United States governmental agencies regarding possible
    national commercial
     and/or 
    security issues posed by the growing manufacturing business in
    Asia; and (19) the increasing importance of operating
    flexibility to enable different responses to different markets,
    customers and applications. The solar market, which Applied
    recently entered, is

13

Table of Contents   

also characterized by ongoing changes in demand for PV products
    arising from, among other things, fluctuations in the cost of
    fossil fuels and electric power, availability of government
    subsidies, the performance and reliability of PV technology, and
    the success of other renewable energy sources. If Applied does
    not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing
    changes occurring in the semiconductor and semiconductor-related
    industries, its business, financial condition and results of
    operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Applied
    must adapt its business and product offerings to respond to
    competition and rapid technological changes.   

As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment, its
    future success depends on many factors, including the effective
    development, commercialization and customer acceptance of its
    nanomanufacturing technology equipment, service and related
    products. In addition, Applied must successfully execute its
    growth strategy, including enhancing market share in existing
    markets, expanding into related markets, and cultivating new
    markets and new business models, while constantly improving its
    operational performance. The development, introduction and
    support of a broadening set of products in more varied
    competitive environments have grown increasingly complex and
    expensive over time. Applied s success is subject to many
    risks, including but not limited to its ability to timely,
    cost-effectively and successfully: (1) improve and develop
    new applications for existing products and increase market share
    in its existing markets; (2) develop, appropriately price,
    and achieve market acceptance of new products; (3) expand
    into or develop related and new markets for its
    nanomanufacturing technology; (4) anticipate and capitalize
    on opportunities in new markets, such as solar, and with new
    technologies; (5) supply a range of Applied and non-Applied
    products as part of its solar offerings; (6) appropriately
    allocate resources, including RD&E funding, among
    Applied s products and between the development of new
    products and the improvement of existing products;
    (7) accurately forecast demand and meet production
    schedules for its products; (8) achieve cost efficiencies
    across product offerings; (9) adapt to technology changes
    in related markets, such as lithography; (10) develop,
    market and price similar products for use by customers in
    different applications
     and/or 
    markets that may have varying technical requirements;
    (11) adapt to changes in value offered by companies in
    different parts of the supply chain; (12) qualify products
    for volume manufacturing with its customers; (13) implement
    changes in its design engineering methodology, including those
    that enable significant decreases in material costs and cycle
    time, greater commonality of platforms and types of parts used
    in different systems, and effective product life cycle
    management; (14) improve its manufacturing processes; and
    (15) deploy initiatives to transform Applied s
    information technology systems and enhance business processes,
    including transitioning to a single-vendor enterprise resource
    planning (ERP) software system. Furthermore, new or improved
    products may involve higher costs and reduced efficiencies
    compared to Applied s more established products and could
    adversely affect Applied s gross margins. Also, entry into
    new markets entails additional challenges, including those
    arising from changes in Applied s customer
     and/or 
    supplier base. In addition, Applied must regularly reassess the
    size, capability and location of its global infrastructure and
    timely make appropriate changes in its real estate and
    facilities portfolio. If Applied does not successfully manage
    these challenges, its business, financial condition and results
    of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Applied
    is exposed to the risks of operating a global
    business.   

In fiscal 2006, more than 80 percent of Applied s net
    sales were to customers in regions outside the United States.
    Certain of Applied s RD&E and manufacturing facilities,
    as well as suppliers to Applied, are also located outside the
    United States. Managing Applied s global operations
    presents challenges, including but not limited to, those arising
    from: (1) varying regional and geopolitical business
    conditions and demands; (2) global trade issues;
    (3) variations in protection of intellectual property and
    other legal rights in different countries; (4) fluctuating
    raw material and energy costs; (5) variations in the
    ability to develop relationships with suppliers and other local
    businesses; (6) changes in laws and regulations of the
    United States (including export restrictions) and other
    countries, as well as their interpretation and application;
    (7) fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange
    rates; (8) the need to provide sufficient levels of
    technical support in different locations; (9) political
    instability, natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or
    storms), pandemics, terrorism or acts of war where Applied has
    operations, suppliers or sales; (10) cultural differences;
    (11) special customer- or government-supported efforts to
    promote the development and growth of local competitors; and
    (12) shipping costs
     and/or 
    delays. Many of these challenges are present in China, which is
    experiencing significant growth of both suppliers and
    prospective

14

Table of Contents   

competitors to Applied, and which Applied believes presents a
    large potential market for its products and opportunity for
    growth over the long term. These challenges, as well as global
    uncertainties with respect to: (1) economic growth rates in
    various countries; (2) consumer confidence; (3) the
    sustainability, timing, rate and amount of demand for
    electronics products and integrated circuits; (4) capital
    and operational spending by semiconductor and display
    manufacturers; and (5) price trends for certain integrated
    circuit devices, may materially and adversely affect
    Applied s business, financial condition and results of
    operations.

Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated
    customer base.   

Applied s customer base is and has historically been highly
    concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of
    manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to continue
    to account for, a substantial portion of Applied s net
    sales. In addition, the mix and type of customers, and sales to
    any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to
    quarter and from year to year. Moreover, certain customers,
    particularly in emerging areas such as solar, may have capital
    resource constraints
     and/or  a
    limited operating history. If customers do not place orders, or
    they delay or cancel orders, Applied may not be able to replace
    the business. As Applied s products are configured to
    customer specifications, changing, rescheduling or canceling
    orders may result in significant non- recoverable costs. Major
    customers may also seek, and on occasion receive, pricing,
    payment, intellectual property-related or other commercial terms
    that are less favorable to Applied. In addition, certain
    customers have undergone significant ownership changes
     and/or 
    formed strategic alliances or collaborative efforts, which may
    result in additional complexities in managing customer
    relationships and transactions. These factors could have a
    material adverse effect on Applied s business, financial
    condition and results of operations.

Manufacturing
    interruptions or delays could affect Applied s ability to
    meet customer demand, while the failure to estimate customer
    demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete
    inventory.   

Applied s business depends on its ability to supply
    equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly
    changing requirements of its customers, which depends in part on
    the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies
    (collectively, parts) from suppliers. Some key parts may be
    subject to long lead-times
     and/or 
    obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of
    suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by
    suppliers in developing regions, including China. In addition,
    Applied has implemented several key operational initiatives
    intended to improve manufacturing efficiency, including
     integrate-to-order, 
    module-final-test and
     merge-in-transit 
    programs. Applied has also begun a multi-year, company-wide
    program to transform certain business processes that includes
    transitioning to a single-vendor enterprise resource planning
    (ERP) software system to perform various functions, such as
    order management and manufacturing control. Significant
    interruptions of manufacturing operations or the delivery of
    services as a result of (1) the failure or inability of
    suppliers to timely deliver quality parts; (2) volatility
    in the availability and cost of materials; (3) difficulties
    or delays in obtaining required export approvals;
    (4) information technology or infrastructure failures;
    (5) difficulties and costs related to planning or effecting
    business process changes and implementing a new ERP system;
    (6) natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or
    storms); or (7) other causes (such as regional economic
    downturns, pandemics, political instability, terrorism or acts
    of war), could result in delayed deliveries, manufacturing
    inefficiencies, increased costs or order cancellations.
    Moreover, if actual demand for Applied s products is
    different than expected, Applied may purchase more/fewer parts
    than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or
    expediting delivery of parts. Any or all of these factors could
    materially and adversely affect Applied s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.

The
    failure to successfully implement and conduct offshoring and
    outsourcing activities could adversely affect results of
    operations.   

To better align costs with market conditions, increase its
    presence in growing markets, and enhance productivity and
    operational efficiency, Applied conducts engineering, software
    development and other operations in regions outside the United
    States, particularly India and China, and outsources certain
    functions to third parties, including companies in the United
    States, India, China and other countries. Outsourced functions
    include engineering, manufacturing, customer support, software
    development and administrative activities. The expanding role of
    third party providers has required changes to Applied s
    existing operations and the adoption of new

15

Table of Contents   

procedures and processes for retaining and managing these
    providers in order to protect its intellectual property. If
    Applied does not effectively develop and implement its
    offshoring and outsourcing strategies, if required export and
    other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, or if
    Applied s third party providers do not perform as
    anticipated, Applied may not realize productivity improvements
    or cost efficiencies and may experience operational
    difficulties, increased costs, manufacturing interruptions or
    delays, loss of its intellectual property rights, quality
    issues, increased product
     time-to-market 
     and/or 
    inefficient allocation of human resources, any or all of which
    could materially and adversely affect Applied s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.

Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and strategic
    investments.   

Applied has made, and in the future intends to make,
    acquisitions of, or investments in, companies, technologies or
    products in existing, related or new markets for Applied.
    Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited
    to: (1) diversion of management s attention from other
    operational matters; (2) inability to complete acquisitions
    as anticipated or at all; (3) inability to realize
    anticipated benefits; (4) failure to commercialize
    purchased technologies; (5) inability to capitalize on
    characteristics of new markets that may be significantly
    different from Applied s existing markets;
    (6) inability to obtain and protect intellectual property
    rights in key technologies; (7) ineffectiveness of an
    acquired company s internal controls; (8) impairment
    of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological
    advancements or
     worse-than-expected 
    performance of the acquired company or its product offerings;
    (9) unknown, underestimated
     and/or 
    undisclosed commitments or liabilities; (10) excess or
    underutilized facilities; and (11) ineffective integration
    of operations, technologies, products or employees of the
    acquired companies. Applied also makes strategic investments in
    other companies, including companies formed as joint ventures,
    which may decline in value
     and/or  not
    meet desired objectives. The success of these investments
    depends on various factors over which Applied may have limited
    or no control and, particularly with respect to joint ventures,
    requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic
    partners. Mergers and acquisitions and strategic investments are
    inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to
    effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely
    affect Applied s business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

The
    ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital
    to Applied s success.   

Applied s success and competitiveness depend in large part
    on its ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees.
    Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors,
    including fluctuations in global economic and industry
    conditions, changes in Applied s management or leadership,
    competitors  hiring practices, and the effectiveness of
    Applied s compensation programs, including its equity-based
    programs. Applied regularly evaluates its overall compensation
    program and makes adjustments, as appropriate, to enhance its
    competitiveness, such as instituting broad-based grants of
    restricted stock units in fiscal 2006. If Applied does not
    successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees,
    Applied s ability to capitalize on its opportunities and
    its operating results may be materially and adversely affected.

Changes
    in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect
    results.   

As a global company, Applied is subject to taxation in the
    United States and various other countries. Significant judgment
    is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities.
    Applied s future annual and quarterly tax rates could be
    affected by numerous factors, including changes in the
    (1) applicable tax laws; (2) composition of earnings
    in countries with differing tax rates; or (3) valuation of
    Applied s deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition,
    Applied is subject to regular examination of its income tax
    returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax
    authorities. Applied regularly assesses the likelihood of
    favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these
    examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for
    income taxes. Although Applied believes its tax estimates are
    reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final
    determination will not be materially different from the
    treatment reflected in Applied s historical income tax
    provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely
    affect Applied s results of operations.

16

Table of Contents   

Applied
    is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or
    claims and protection of intellectual property
    rights.   

Applied from time to time is, and in the future may be, involved
    in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement,
    intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental
    regulations, securities, contracts, product performance, product
    liability, unfair competition, employment and other matters. In
    addition, Applied on occasion receives notification from
    customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or
    other obligations related to claims made against customers by
    third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with
    or without merit, may be time-consuming and expensive to
    prosecute or defend and also divert management s attention
    and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome
    of current or future legal proceedings or claims. Applied
    previously entered into a mutual
     covenant-not-to-sue 
    arrangement with one of its competitors to decrease the risk of
    patent infringement lawsuits in the future. There can be no
    assurance that the intended results of this arrangement will be
    achieved or that Applied will be able to adequately protect its
    intellectual property rights with the restrictions associated
    with such a covenant. In addition, Applied s success
    depends in significant part on the protection of its
    intellectual property and other rights. Infringement of
    Applied s rights by a third party, such as the unauthorized
    manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts, could result in
    uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied.
    Applied s intellectual property rights may not provide
    significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented,
    invalidated, rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of
    technological change, or if Applied does not adequately assert
    these rights. Furthermore, the laws and practices of other
    countries, including China, Taiwan and Korea, permit the
    protection and enforcement of Applied s rights to varying
    extents, which may not be sufficient to protect Applied s
    rights. If Applied is not able to obtain or enforce intellectual
    property rights, resolve or settle claims, obtain necessary
    licenses on commercially reasonable terms,
     and/or 
    successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.

Applied
    is subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental and
    safety regulations.   

Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in
    connection with its global business operations, including but
    not limited to regulations related to the development,
    manufacture and use of its products; recycling and disposal of
    materials used in its products; the operation of its facilities;
    and the use of its real property. Failure or inability to comply
    with existing or future environmental and safety regulations
    could result in significant remediation liabilities, the
    imposition of fines
     and/or  the
    suspension or termination of development, manufacture, sale or
    use of certain of its products,
     and/or  may
    affect the operation of its facilities, use or value of its real
    property, each of which could have a material adverse effect on
    Applied s business, financial condition and results of
    operations.

Applied
    is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory
    environment.   

Applied is subject to various risks related to: (1) new,
    different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and
    regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies
     and/or 
    regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates;
    (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional
    regulatory agencies related to international trade; and
    (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and
    regulations. If Applied is found by a court or regulatory agency
    not to be in compliance with applicable laws, rules or
    regulations, Applied s business, financial condition and
    results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Applied
    is subject to internal control evaluations and attestation
    requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act.   

Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
    Applied must include in its annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    a report of management on the effectiveness of Applied s
    internal control over financial reporting and an attestation by
    Applied s independent registered public accounting firm to
    the adequacy of management s assessment of Applied s
    internal control. Ongoing compliance with these requirements is
    complex, costly and time-consuming. If (1) Applied fails to
    maintain effective internal control over financial reporting;
    (2) Applied s management does not timely assess the
    adequacy of such internal control; or (3) Applied s
    independent registered

17

Table of Contents   

public accounting firm does not timely attest to the evaluation,
    Applied could be subject to regulatory sanctions and the
    public s perception of Applied may decline.

Item 1B:    

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

None.

Item 2:    

Properties   

As indicated above, Applied has four reportable segments:
    Silicon, Fab Solutions, Display and Adjacent Technologies.
    Because of the interrelation of Applied s operations,
    properties within a country may be shared by all segments
    operating within that country. Products in the Silicon segment
    are manufactured in Austin, Texas; Horsham, England; and
    Rehovot, Israel. Remanufactured products in the Fab Solutions
    segment are produced primarily in Austin, Texas. Products in the
    Display segment are manufactured in Santa Clara,
    California; Alzenau, Germany; and Tainan, Taiwan. Products in
    the Adjacent Technologies segment are manufactured primarily in
    Alzenau, Germany.

Information concerning Applied s principal properties at
    October 29, 2006 is set forth below:

In addition to the above properties, Applied leases office space
    for marketing, sales, engineering and customer support offices
    in 92 locations throughout the world: 25 in North America
    (principally the United States), 23 in Europe, 23 in Japan, 11
    in Asia-Pacific (including China and India), 7 in Korea and 3 in
    Taiwan.

In addition, Applied owns 94 acres of buildable land in
    Texas that could accommodate approximately 1,433,000 square
    feet of additional building space and 43 acres in
    California that could accommodate approximately
    1,247,000 square feet of additional building space. Applied
    also leases: 13 acres in Taiwan that could accommodate
    approximately 270,000 square feet of additional building
    space; 10 acres in Israel that could accommodate
    approximately 110,000 square feet of additional building
    space; and 25 acres in China, where Applied is building a
    118,000 square foot facility.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, Applied s Board of
    Directors approved a plan to disinvest a portion of
    Applied s real estate and facilities portfolio (the Plan).
    Properties were reported as assets
     held-for-sale 
    and reclassified from property, plant and equipment on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheet. Applied recorded an asset

18

Table of Contents   

impairment charge to write down the following properties to
    estimated fair value: (1) facilities in Narita, Japan;
    Hillsboro, Oregon; Chunan, Korea; and Danvers, Massachusetts;
    and (2) 26 acres of unimproved land in Hillsboro,
    Oregon. As part of the Plan, Applied also recorded a charge for
    future obligations under a lease in Hayward, California, which
    was subsequently terminated. At October 29, 2006, Applied
    had properties held for sale in Hillsboro, Oregon; Narita,
    Japan; and Chunan, Korea. For additional discussion of the Plan,
    refer to Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Applied considers these properties adequate to meet its current
    and future requirements. Applied regularly assesses the size,
    capability and location of its global infrastructure and
    periodically makes adjustments based on these assessments.

Item 3:    

Legal
    Proceedings   

David
    Scharf  

On July 31, 2001, David Scharf, an individual, filed a
    lawsuit against Applied in the United States District Court for
    the Central District of California, captioned David
    Scharf v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case
     no. 01-06580 
    AHM). The lawsuit alleges that Applied has infringed, has
    induced others to infringe, and has contributed to others 
    infringement of, a patent concerning color synthesizing scanning
    electron microscope technology. Mr. Scharf seeks a
    preliminary and permanent injunction, a finding of willful
    infringement, damages (including treble damages), and costs.
    Applied has answered the complaint and counterclaimed for
    declaratory judgment of non-infringement and invalidity. On
    May 10, 2002, Mr. Scharf filed a request for
    re-examination of his patent with the Patent and Trademark
    Office (PTO). On June 26, 2002, the case was removed from
    the Court s active docket after the parties stipulated to
    stay the case pending the results of that re-examination. On
    July 11, 2002, Applied filed its own request for
    re-examination of Mr. Scharf s patent with the PTO.
    Applied s request for re-examination was granted on
    September 19, 2002. On April 23, 2004, the PTO
    notified Applied that it intended to issue a re-examination
    certificate. On June 14, 2004, Applied filed a second
    request for re-examination of Mr. Scharf s patent with
    the PTO. The second request was denied on September 1,
    2004. On October 1, 2004, Applied filed a petition for
    reconsideration of that denial, which subsequently was denied.
    The lawsuit was returned to the active docket of the District
    Court for the Central District of California in January 2006,
    and is scheduled to commence trial on April 3, 2007. The
    parties are engaged in discovery and on November 6, 2006,
    the Court heard opposing motions for summary judgment on the
    issues of infringement and claim construction. The Court has not
    yet ruled on these motions. Applied believes it has meritorious
    defenses and counterclaims and intends to pursue them vigorously.

Linear
    Technology  

On March 12, 2002, Linear Technology Corp. (LTC) filed a
    complaint against Applied in the Superior Court for the County
    of Santa Clara, captioned Linear Technology Corp. v.
    Applied Materials, Inc., Novellus Systems, Inc. and Tokyo
    Electron Ltd. (case no. CV806004), alleging claims for
    breach of contract, fraud and deceit, negligent
    misrepresentation, suppression of fact, unfair competition,
    breach of warranty, express contractual indemnity, implied
    equitable indemnity and declaratory relief. The complaint
    alleged, among other things, that Applied is obligated to
    indemnify and defend LTC for certain claims in an underlying
    patent infringement lawsuit brought by Texas Instruments, Inc.
    (TI) against LTC. On November 12, 2002, LTC filed an
    amended complaint asserting essentially the same claims as in
    the original complaint, but adding an additional assertion that
    LTC and TI have settled their litigation. Applied s motion
    to dismiss the amended complaint was granted in part. LTC filed
    Second and Third Amended Complaints, each of which was dismissed
    upon Applied s motion. On February 13, 2004, LTC filed
    a Fourth Amended Complaint, which Applied moved to dismiss. LTC
    then filed a motion to amend its Fourth Amended Complaint, which
    the Court granted. On July 7, 2004, LTC filed a Fifth
    Amended Complaint. On October 5, 2004, Applied s
    motion to dismiss LTC s Fifth Amended Complaint was granted
    with prejudice. On January 11, 2005, LTC filed a notice of
    appeal of the dismissal of its complaint. Applied believes it
    has meritorious defenses and intends to pursue them vigorously.

19

Table of Contents   

Jusung  

On December 24, 2003, Applied filed a lawsuit against
    Jusung Engineering Co., Ltd. (Jusung Engineering) and Jusung
    Pacific Co., Ltd. (Jusung Pacific, referred to together with
    Jusung Engineering as Jusung) in Tao-Yuan District Court in
    Taiwan, captioned Applied Materials, Inc. v. Jusung
    Engineering Co., Ltd. (case no. 92 Tsai-chuan Tzi
    No. 6388). The lawsuit alleges that Jusung is infringing a
    patent related to chemical vapor deposition owned by Applied. In
    the lawsuit, Applied seeks a provisional injunction prohibiting
    Jusung from importing, using, manufacturing, servicing or
    selling in Taiwan certain flat panel display manufacturing
    equipment. On December 25, 2003, the Tao-Yuan District
    Court ruled in favor of Applied s request for a provisional
    injunction and, on January 14, 2004, the Court issued a
    provisional injunction order against Jusung Pacific. Jusung
    Pacific appealed those decisions, and the decisions were
    affirmed on appeal. On January 30, 2004, Jusung Pacific
    requested permission to post a counterbond to have the Jusung
    Pacific injunction lifted. Jusung Pacific s counterbond
    request was granted and, on March 30, 2004, the provisional
    injunction order was lifted. At Applied s request, on
    December 11, 2004, the District Court issued a provisional
    injunction order against Jusung Engineering. Jusung Engineering
    appealed that order, and the order was affirmed on appeal.
    Jusung Engineering also requested permission to post a
    counterbond to have the Jusung Engineering injunction lifted.
    Jusung Engineering s counterbond request was granted and on
    April 25, 2005, the provisional injunction order against
    Jusung Engineering was lifted. Applied has appealed both
    counterbond decisions. On June 30, 2004, Applied filed a
     main action  patent infringement complaint against
    Jusung in the Hsinchu District Court in Taiwan, captioned
    Applied Materials, Inc. v. Jusung Engineering Co., Ltd.
    (case no. 93 Zhong Zhi No. 3). In the lawsuit, Applied
    seeks damages and a permanent injunction for infringement of the
    same patent. The decisions regarding the provisional injunction
    and counterbond have no effect on the separate patent
    infringement lawsuit filed by Applied against Jusung in the
    Hsinchu Court. In August 2006, the Court set the litigation fee
    and the litigation security payment, and the main action is now
    proceeding on its merits. The Court held a second hearing in the
    main action on October 30, 2006. This same patent is the
    subject of an invalidity proceeding filed in the Taiwanese
    Patent and Trademark Office by Jusung Pacific in June 2004.
    Applied believes it has meritorious claims and intends to pursue
    them vigorously.

On June 13, 2006, Applied filed an action in the Taiwanese
    Patent and Trademark Office challenging the validity of a patent
    owned by Jusung Engineering (Taiwanese Patent
    No. 249186) related to the severability of the
    transfer chamber. On June 20, 2006, Jusung Engineering
    filed a lawsuit against Applied and Applied s subsidiary,
    AKT, in Hsinchu District Court in Taiwan, captioned Jusung
    Engineering, Co. Ltd. v. AKT America, Inc. and Applied
    Materials, Inc., alleging infringement of this patent. Jusung
    Engineering s lawsuit seeks damages, costs and
    attorneys  fees, but does not seek injunctive relief. The
    Court has scheduled the first hearing in this matter for
    December 28, 2006. Applied believes that it has meritorious
    defenses that it intends to pursue vigorously.

Taiwan
    Fair Trade Commission  

On April 10, 2004, the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission (TFTC)
    notified Applied s subsidiary, AKT, in Taiwan that,
    pursuant to a complaint filed by Jusung, the TFTC had begun an
    investigation into whether AKT had violated the Taiwan Fair
    Trade Act. The investigation focused on whether AKT violated the
    Taiwan Guidelines for the Review of Cases Involving Enterprises
    Issuing Warning Letters for Infringement on Copyright, Trademark
    and Patent Rights by allegedly notifying customers about
    AKT s patent rights and the infringement of those rights by
    Jusung. On June 15, 2004, the TFTC notified Applied that
    Applied also was the subject of the investigation. By letter
    dated April 15, 2005, the TFTC notified Applied and AKT
    that there was insufficient evidence to support a claim against
    either company. Jusung appealed the TFTC s decision, and
    the appeals court affirmed the decision of the TFTC in favor of
    Applied on February 7, 2006. Jusung has appealed the
    appeals court s affirmation of the decision of the TFTC.

Silicon
    Services Consortium  

On January 19, 2006, five companies that sell refurbished
    Applied tools (Silicon Services Consortium Inc., Semiconductor
    Support Services Co., OEM Surplus, Inc., Precision Technician
    Inc., and Semiconductor Equipment Specialist, Inc.) filed a
    lawsuit against Applied in the United States District Court for
    the Western District of Texas, captioned Silicon Services
    Consortium, Inc., et al. v. Applied Materials, Inc.
    (case no. A06CA051 LY). The plaintiffs claim that a policy
    that Applied announced in January 2005 limiting the sale of
    certain parts to them

20

Table of Contents   

constituted an unlawful attempt to monopolize the refurbishment
    business, an interference with existing contracts, and an
    interference with prospective business relationships. The suit
    seeks injunctive relief, damages, costs and attorneys 
    fees. After Applied filed a motion to dismiss the original
    complaint, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint alleging
    similar conduct. Applied filed a motion to dismiss the amended
    complaint on April 7, 2006, and a hearing before the Court
    was conducted on August 22, 2006. The Court has not yet
    ruled on these motions. Applied believes it has meritorious
    defenses and counterclaims and intends to pursue them vigorously.

Applied does not believe that the outcome of any of the above
    matters will have a material adverse effect on its financial
    position or results of operations.

Other
    Legal Matters  

From time to time, Applied receives notification from third
    parties, including customers and suppliers, seeking
    indemnification, litigation support, payment of money or other
    actions by Applied in connection with claims made against them
    by third parties. In addition, from time to time, Applied
    receives notification from third parties claiming that Applied
    may be or is infringing their intellectual property or other
    rights. Applied also is subject to various other legal
    proceedings and claims, both asserted and unasserted, that arise
    in the ordinary course of business. Although the outcome of
    these claims and proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty,
    Applied does not believe that any of these other existing
    proceedings or claims will have a material adverse effect on its
    consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Item 4:    

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.

21

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5:    

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

The following table sets forth the high and low closing sale
    prices as reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (formerly
    the Nasdaq National Market).

Applied s common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global
    Select Market under the symbol AMAT. As of November 26,
    2006, there were 5,786 directly registered holders of stock.

Applied s Board of Directors declared three quarterly cash
    dividends in the amount of $0.03 per share each in fiscal
    2005. During fiscal 2006, Applied s Board of Directors
    declared one quarterly cash dividend in the amount of
    $0.03 per share and three quarterly cash dividends in the
    amount of $0.05 per share each. The fourth quarterly cash
    dividend declared in fiscal 2006 was paid on December 7,
    2006, to stockholders of record as of November 16, 2006.
    Dividends paid during fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 totaled
    $98 million and $251 million, respectively. Applied
    currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be
    paid on a quarterly basis in the future, although the
    declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of
    the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied s
    financial condition, results of operations, capital
    requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as
    a determination that cash dividends are in the best interest of
    stockholders.

The following table provides information as of October 29,
    2006 with respect to the shares of common stock repurchased by
    Applied during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006:

*  

On September 15, 2006, the Board of Directors approved the
    repurchase of 145 million shares of Applied common stock
    for an initial purchase price of $2.5 billion in cash under
    an accelerated stock buyback program. The repurchase was
    executed by Goldman, Sachs & Co. pursuant to agreements
    that include a two-way market purchase price adjustment based on
    the volume weighted average market trading price of Applied
    common stock over the subsequent four-month period. On that
    date, the Board of Directors also approved a new stock
    repurchase program for up to $5.0 billion in repurchases
    over the next three years, ending September 2009. 

22

Table of Contents   

Item 6:    

Selected
    Financial Data   

The following selected financial information has been derived
    from Applied s historical consolidated financial statements
    and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
    financial statements and the accompanying notes for the
    corresponding fiscal years:

(1)  

Each fiscal year ended on the last Sunday in October. 

(2)  

In fiscal 2006, Applied reclassified certain fixed-income
    securities from short-term investments to long-term investments;
    prior period balances have been restated to conform to the
    current period presentation. 

23

Table of Contents   

Item 7:    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

Introduction  

Management s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended
    to facilitate an understanding of Applied s business and
    results of operations. This MD&A should be read in
    conjunction with Applied s Consolidated Financial
    Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements included elsewhere in this report. The following
    discussion contains forward   looking statements and
    should also be read in conjunction with the cautionary statement
    set forth at the beginning of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    MD&A consists of the following sections:

Overview:   a summary of Applied s
    business, measurements and opportunities.

Results of Operations:   a discussion of
    operating results.

Segment Information:   a discussion of segment
    operating results.

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital
    Resources:   an analysis of cash flows, sources and
    uses of cash, contractual obligations and financial position.

Critical Accounting Policies:   a discussion of
    critical accounting policies that require the exercise of
    judgments and estimates.

Overview  

Applied develops, manufactures, markets and services
    semiconductor and semiconductor-related fabrication equipment,
    providing nanomanufacturing
    technology  tm  
    solutions to the global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar
    and other industries. Product development and manufacturing
    activities occur in North America, Europe and Israel.
    Applied s broad range of equipment and service products are
    highly technical and are sold through a direct sales force.
    Customer demand for spare parts and services is fulfilled
    through a global spare parts distribution system and trained
    service engineers located around the world in close proximity to
    customer sites.

As a supplier to these industries, Applied s results are
    primarily driven by worldwide demand for chips and flat panel
    displays, which in turn depends on end-user demand for
    electronic products. The industries in which Applied operates
    are volatile and its results in fiscal 2004 through 2006 reflect
    this volatility.

The following table presents certain significant measurements of
    the past three fiscal years:

Operating results for fiscal 2004 reflected a recovery from a
    downturn in the semiconductor industry and the global economy,
    as well as realized savings from Applied s fiscal 2003
    realignment activities. In addition, Applied gained market share
    in critical areas, including 300mm equipment and copper
    interconnect, and improved its operational efficiencies.

Fiscal 2005 results reflected a challenging environment as
    Applied s customers decreased fab utilization globally and
    reduced or delayed capital expenditures as a result of excess
    inventories and slowing demand for chips. In this period,
    Applied focused on lowering costs, improving efficiencies,
    reducing cycle time and bringing new products to market. During
    the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, customer demand for Applied
    products began to increase.

24

Table of Contents   

Customer demand further improved in fiscal 2006, resulting in
    higher orders and revenue. Fiscal 2006 results reflected a
    recovery in the semiconductor and semiconductor-related
    industries and the global economy as end-user demand for
    electronic products and flat panel displays drove increased
    customer requirements for advanced silicon and display products.
    During this period, Applied s semiconductor customers
    increased both high-volume production and leading-edge 65nm
    and 45nm chip development. Results for this period also
    reflected Applied s continued focus on cost controls.
    Improvements in operating performance were offset in part by
    restructuring and asset impairment charges associated with real
    estate and facilities disinvestment that commenced during the
    first fiscal quarter, equity-based compensation expenses and an
    in-process research and development expense associated with the
    acquisition of Applied Films Corporation (Applied Films).

During the second half of fiscal 2006, Applied completed certain
    transactions in support of its long-term growth strategy.
    Management believes that these transactions will enhance
    Applied s ability to extend its nanomanufacturing
    capabilities into adjacent and new markets, including color
    filters for flat panel displays, solar cells, flexible
    electronics, energy-efficient glass and track solutions for
    semiconductor manufacturing. These transactions included the
    acquisition of Applied Films, the formation of a joint venture
    with Dainippon Screen Mfg. Co., Ltd. (Screen), and the purchase
    of certain parts cleaning and recycling assets in Singapore from
    UMS Solutions Pte. Ltd. (UMS Solutions), a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of Norelco UMS Holdings Limited.

Applied s long-term opportunities depend in part on
    successful execution of its growth strategy, including
    increasing market share in existing markets, expanding into
    related markets, and cultivating new markets and new business
    models. These opportunities are also subject to many factors,
    including: (1) global economic conditions;
    (2) advanced technology
     and/or 
    capacity requirements of semiconductor manufacturers and their
    capital investment trends; (3) the profitability of chip
    and display manufacturers; (4) supply and demand for chips,
    flat panel displays, solar panels, and related products and
    services; (5) realization of the anticipated benefits of
    business combinations; (6) continued investment in
    research, development and engineering (RD  and
    (7) the relative competitiveness of Applied s
    equipment and service products. For these and other reasons set
    forth in Part 1, Item 1A,  Risk Factors, 
    Applied s prior results of operations are not necessarily
    indicative of future operating results.

Results
    of Operations  

Net
    Sales   

Applied s business was subject to cyclical industry
    conditions in fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006. As a result of these
    conditions, there were significant fluctuations in
    Applied s quarterly new orders and net sales, both within
    and across the fiscal years. Demand for manufacturing equipment
    has historically been volatile as a result of sudden changes in
    chip and flat panel supply and demand and other factors,
    including rapid technological advances in fabrication processes.

25

Table of Contents   

Quarterly and full fiscal year financial information was as
    follows:

Net sales by geographic region, which were attributed to the
    location of customers  facilities, were as follows:

(1)  

Primarily the United States. 

(2)  

Includes China. 

New orders increased to $9.0 billion for fiscal 2004,
    reflecting a broad-based increase in capital investment in 300mm
    technology to meet rising demand for chips and flat panel
    displays. Following the new order trends, net sales increased to
    $8.0 billion in fiscal 2004, reflecting the fulfillment of
    higher levels of orders for capital equipment received in prior
    quarters to support customers  manufacturing capacity
    expansion and new technology requirements.

New orders for fiscal 2005 decreased 29 percent, from
    $9.0 billion in the prior year to $6.4 billion, as
    semiconductor manufacturers reduced their capital investments to
    align inventories with demand. Following the trend of decreasing
    orders during fiscal 2005, net sales decreased by
    13 percent from $8.0 billion for fiscal 2004 to
    $7.0 billion for fiscal 2005, reflecting lower demand for
    semiconductor products.

26

Table of Contents   

New orders for fiscal 2006 increased 55 percent, from
    $6.4 billion in the prior year to $9.9 billion, as
    customer demand increased. Following the trend of increasing
    orders during fiscal 2006, net sales increased by
    31 percent, from $7.0 billion for fiscal 2005 to
    $9.2 billion for fiscal 2006.

Gross
    Margin   

Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased from
    46.2 percent for fiscal 2004 to 44.1 percent for
    fiscal 2005, and increased to 46.8 percent for fiscal 2006.
    The higher gross margin percentage for fiscal 2004 was
    principally attributable to improved revenue levels, changes in
    product mix, decreased product costs, and increased
    manufacturing volume, resulting in higher absorption of
    manufacturing and field service costs and the completion of
    refocused product efforts. The higher gross margin in fiscal
    2004 was partially offset by increased variable compensation
    costs as a result of improved operating performance. The
    decrease in gross margin from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2005 was due
    to lower revenue levels, lower manufacturing absorption and
    changes in product mix, which were partially offset by
    initiatives for cost reduction and efficiency improvement, such
    as common platform architecture and parts, lower cost sourcing
    and cycle time reduction. The increase in the gross margin
    percentage from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2006 was principally
    attributable to the combination of higher revenue levels,
    decreased product costs and increased manufacturing volume and
    absorption, partially offset by increased variable and
    equity-based compensation costs. Applied began recognizing
    expenses associated with stock options and the ESPP in fiscal
    2006. Gross margin during fiscal 2006 included $37 million
    of equity-based compensation expense.

Research,
    Development and Engineering   

Applied s future operating results depend to a considerable
    extent on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the
    products and services it provides. Applied believes that it is
    critical to continue to make substantial investments in RD&E
    to assure the availability of innovative technology that meets
    the current and projected requirements of its customers 
    most advanced designs. Applied has historically maintained its
    commitment to investing in RD&E in order to continue to
    offer new products and technologies. As a result, RD&E
    expenses were $992 million (12 percent of net sales)
    for fiscal 2004, $941 million (13 percent of net
    sales) for fiscal 2005, and $1.2 billion (13 percent
    of net sales) for fiscal 2006. Equity-based compensation
    expenses during fiscal 2006 associated with research,
    development and engineering functions totaled $76 million.
    Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on
    whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product or
    a new product. Most of Applied s existing products resulted
    from internal development activities and innovations involving
    new technologies, materials and processes. In certain instances,
    Applied acquires technologies, either in existing or new product
    areas, to complement its existing technology capabilities and to
    reduce time to market.

In fiscal 2004, Applied continued its investment in developing
    technologies for future generation manufacturing. Advances were
    made in several key areas, including technology for enhancing
    transistor and interconnect performance.

In fiscal 2005, Applied focused on developing systems for
    customers  advanced chip designs, including systems to
    enable smaller and faster interconnect and transistor structures
    with 65nm, 45nm and below geometries and flat panel display
    systems to process larger glass substrates.

In fiscal 2006, Applied continued its development of systems to
    increase chip performance, especially for Flash and DRAM
    devices. Applied also focused on developing systems for 32nm and
    22nm copper/low k interconnect processing technologies to
    address critical manufacturing challenges that chipmakers face
    as they transition to future device generations, helping them to
    bring new products to market more rapidly while minimizing risk.
    Applied also continued to focus on developing flat panel display
    systems to process even larger glass substrates.

During fiscal 2006, Applied recorded an in-process research and
    development (IPR&D) expense in the amount of
    $14 million related to the acquisition of Applied Films.
    Applied s methodology for allocating the purchase price
    relating to purchased acquisitions to IPR&D was determined
    through established valuation techniques. The IPR&D was
    expensed upon acquisition because technological feasibility had
    not been established and no future alternative uses existed. No
    IPR&D charges were recorded in fiscal 2005. During fiscal
    2004, Applied recorded an IPR&D expense in the amount of
    $6 million related to the acquisition of Torrex Equipment
    Corporation.

27

Table of Contents   

Marketing,
    Selling, General and Administrative   

Marketing, selling, general and administrative expenses were
    $752 million (9 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2004,
    decreased to $697 million (10 percent of net sales)
    for fiscal 2005, and increased to $907 million
    (10 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2006. The decrease in
    operating expenses from fiscal 2004 to 2005 was due to lower
    business volume. Operating expenses were affected by reductions
    in variable compensation due to lower operating performance and
    focus on cost controls. The increase from fiscal 2005 to 2006
    correlated to the increase in business volume, as well as
    increases in variable compensation as a result of improved
    operating performance, equity-based compensation expense, and
    spending on the Company s business transformation
    initiative, partially offset by savings resulting from
    Applied s continued focus on controlling its overall cost
    structure. Equity-based compensation expenses during fiscal 2006
    associated with marketing, sales and general and administrative
    functions totaled $104 million. During fiscal 2006, Applied
    launched the planning stage of its multi-year business
    transformation initiative, which is expected to include the
    design of certain new company-wide business processes and the
    transition to a single-vendor software system to perform various
    functions, such as order management and manufacturing control.

Restructuring
    and Asset Impairments   

Restructuring actions taken in fiscal 2004 were intended to
    better align Applied s cost structure with prevailing
    market conditions due to the industry downturn at the time.
    These actions, which were necessary as a result of reduced
    business volume, reduced Applied s global workforce and
    consolidated global facilities. Restructuring, asset impairments
    and other charges for fiscal 2004 totaled $167 million,
    consisting of $65 million for facility consolidations,
    $6 million for severance and benefits, and $96 million
    for other costs, primarily fixed asset writeoffs due to facility
    consolidations.

As of October 29, 2006, the fiscal 2004 restructuring
    actions were completed, and restructuring reserve balances
    consisted principally of remaining lease commitments associated
    with facilities.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, Applied s Board of
    Directors approved a plan to disinvest a portion of
    Applied s real estate and facilities portfolio (the Plan).
    Properties with an estimated fair value of $56 million were
    reported as assets
     held-for-sale 
    and reclassified from property, plant and equipment on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheet. Applied recorded an asset impairment
    charge of $124 million during the first quarter of fiscal
    2006 to write down the following properties to estimated fair
    value: (1) facilities in Narita, Japan; Chunan, Korea;
    Hillsboro, Oregon; Danvers, Massachusetts; and
    (2) 26 acres of unimproved land in Hillsboro, Oregon.
    As part of the Plan, Applied also recorded a charge in the
    amount of $91 million for future lease obligations that
    were scheduled to continue through fiscal 2014 related to the
    closure of its leased Hayward, California facility. During the
    third quarter of fiscal 2006, Applied sold the Danvers,
    Massachusetts facility for net proceeds of $16 million and
    recognized a gain of $4 million. During the fourth quarter
    of fiscal 2006, Applied recorded additional impairment charges
    on the Narita and Chunan facilities of $6 million and
    recorded a restructuring charge of $4 million related to
    environmental contamination of the Narita site. During the
    second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006, Applied
    consumed $9 million in restructuring reserves related to
    the Hayward campus in rental and operating costs. In the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2006, the Hayward lease obligation was
    terminated for $81 million. Applied continues to actively
    market the remaining properties.

For further details, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Litigation
    Settlements, Net   

Litigation settlements, net were $27 million for fiscal
    2004 and consisted of costs of $28 million related to two
    separate patent litigation settlements, net of a gain of
    $1 million related to a legal settlement in favor of
    Applied. During fiscal 2005 and 2006, there were no material
    litigation settlements.

Net
    Interest Income   

Net interest income was $66 million for fiscal 2004,
    $134 million for fiscal 2005 and $149 million for
    fiscal 2006. The increases in net interest income from fiscal
    2004 to 2005 and from 2005 to 2006 were due primarily to a

28

Table of Contents   

substantial increase in interest rates combined with a decrease
    in interest expense associated with scheduled debt maturities in
    September 2004 and September 2005.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, Applied repurchased
    145 million shares of outstanding common stock for an
    aggregate purchase price of $2.5 billion under an
    accelerated buyback program. The repurchase was funded with
    Applied s existing cash and investments. A portion of the
    investment portfolio was sold to fund the accelerated stock
    buyback, resulting in lower interest income due to the
    realization of losses associated with certain investments and a
    reduced investment portfolio.

Income
    Taxes   

Applied s effective income tax provision rate was
    26.1 percent for fiscal 2004, 23.5 percent for fiscal
    2005 and 30.0 percent for fiscal 2006. Applied s
    effective rate of 23.5 percent for fiscal 2005 reflected
    the favorable resolution of audits of prior years  income
    tax filings of $118 million and a change in estimate with
    respect to export tax benefits of $14 million, partially
    offset by a charge of $32 million relating to the
    distribution of foreign earnings under the American Jobs
    Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Creation Act). Applied s
    effective tax rate of 30.0 percent for fiscal 2006
    reflected benefits of $61 million principally related to
    the favorable resolution of audits of prior years  income
    tax filings, partially offset by a $17 million charge from
    the expensing of equity-based compensation.

The Jobs Creation Act, enacted in fiscal 2004, provides for a
    three year phase-out of current extraterritorial income tax
    (ETI) benefits and replaces ETI with a phased-in nine percent
    domestic production activity deduction that will not be fully
    effective until 2010. The Jobs Creation Act will not fully
    replace Applied s current ETI tax benefits.

Applied s future effective income tax rate depends on
    various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic
    composition of Applied s pre-tax income, and non-tax
    deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions.
    Management carefully monitors these factors and timely adjusts
    the effective income tax rate accordingly.

Segment
    Information  

After the acquisition of Applied Films, Applied made certain
    changes to its internal financial reporting structure during the
    fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and, as a result, is reporting
    four segments: Silicon, Fab Solutions, Display, and Adjacent
    Technologies. A description of the products and services, as
    well as financial data, for each reportable segment can be found
    in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
    Future changes to Applied s internal financial reporting
    structure may result in changes to the reportable segments
    disclosed. Applied does not allocate to its reportable segments
    certain operating expenses which are reported separately at the
    corporate level. These unallocated costs include equity-based
    compensation, regional marketing and sales, corporate functions
    (certain management, finance, legal, human resources and
    RD&E costs) and unabsorbed information technology and
    occupancy costs. Prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006,
    Applied operated in one reportable segment. Fiscal 2004 and 2005
    amounts are presented on a basis comparable to fiscal 2006
    amounts. Discussions below include the results of each
    reportable segment.

Silicon
    Segment   

Fiscal 2004 Silicon orders of $6.4 billion reflected
    investment in advanced 300mm manufacturing capacity by chip
    manufacturers due to robust consumer spending, increased
    corporate information technology spending and growth in the
    personal computer and cell phone markets. During fiscal 2004,
    net sales of $5.8 billion reflected increased demand for
    Applied s low k CVD Black products, and PECVD, CMP and PVD
    products continued to be industry benchmarks for performance and
    capability in advanced technologies. During fiscal 2004,
    operating income of $1.8 billion reflected higher net sales
    and cost savings related to completion of the realignment plan,

29

Table of Contents   

offset in part by higher variable compensation expenses. In
    fiscal 2004, RD&E advances were made in several key areas,
    including technology for enhancing transistor and interconnect
    performance. Ten major products were introduced, including the
    Applied Endura2, Applied Reflexion LK Ecmp, Applied Producer
    HARP, Applied Quantum X and Applied SEMVision G2 FIB systems,
    all targeted for 65nm and below chip manufacturing.

Silicon orders of $3.9 billion decreased 38 percent in
    fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. Net sales of
    $4.5 billion decreased 23 percent in fiscal 2005
    compared to fiscal 2004. Fiscal 2005 was a year of lower
    semiconductor capital equipment investment, as customers aligned
    inventories with demand. During fiscal 2005, customers decreased
    manufacturing utilization to address rising chip inventory and
    softening end-user demand. Operating income of $1.1 billion
    decreased 40 percent in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal
    2004. During fiscal 2005, Applied reduced variable expenses and
    the cost of products sold in order to align its cost structure
    with market conditions. In fiscal 2005, RD&E focused on
    developing systems for customers  advanced chip designs,
    including systems to enable smaller and faster interconnect and
    transistor structures with 65nm, 45nm and below geometries. For
    copper interconnect applications, the Company introduced the
    Applied Endura CuB/S II system with advanced copper
    barrier/seed technology and the Applied Producer Black
    Diamond II system for next-generation low k dielectric film
    layers. For leading-edge transistor gate applications, the
    Company launched the Applied Centura AdvantEdge Etch system,
    Applied
    Siconi  tm  
    preclean technology and the Applied Vantage RadOx RTP. New
    applications in strain engineering, which involves creating
    localized areas of stress in the transistor structure, were also
    developed for existing systems to meet customers 
    requirements for faster transistors. In the area of inspection
    and metrology, the Company launched the Applied
    UVision  tm  
    system, the industry s first laser 3D brightfield
    inspection tool, and Applied OPC Check software, designed to
    automate critical OPC mask verification.

Silicon orders of $6.6 billion increased 67 percent in
    2006 compared to 2005. During fiscal 2006, leading semiconductor
    manufacturers reported increased sales as the electronics market
    continued to grow. The demand for consumer electronics,
    including broadband, personal computers and cell phones with
    increasing digital content and complex chips, resulted in
    increased chip demand and the need for new capacity. In addition
    to expanding consumer electronics demand, corporate information
    technology investment increased, with an emphasis on security,
    server consolidation and more robust internet infrastructures.
    Net sales of $6.0 billion increased 34 percent in 2006
    compared to 2005. During fiscal 2006, demand increased in many
    areas, including etch, inspection and thin films products.
    Operating income of $2.0 billion increased 81 percent
    in 2006 compared to 2005. Improved operating results in fiscal
    2006 reflected an increase in business volume, offset in part by
    increases in variable compensation expenses. In fiscal 2006,
    Applied continued its development of systems to increase chip
    performance, especially for Flash and DRAM devices. To extend
    aluminum (the material used by many memory manufacturers for
    interconnects) to the
     sub-70nm 
    node, the Company introduced two products, the Applied Endura
    CVD Al technology and Applied Centura AdvantEdge Metal Etch
    system. For faster copper interconnects, Applied launched its
    enhanced Endura CuBS system with Aktiv Preclean, extending the
    system s capability to the 45nm node and below, especially
    for use with ultra-low k dielectric films. The Company
    introduced the Applied Endura iLB II (integrated
    liner-barrier) system, offering advances in PVD titanium and
    preclean technologies, to provide significantly reduced
    resistance for contact structures. The Company also focused on
    providing solutions to extend customers  lithography
    technology, introducing the Applied Producer APF-e (advanced
    patterning film enhancement) system. The new APF-e film enables
    chipmakers to cost-effectively pattern nano-scale features
    without additional integration complexity while reducing their
    reliance on next-generation lithography systems.

Fab
    Solutions Segment   

Fiscal 2004 orders and net sales reflected increased demand for
    spare parts due to higher wafer starts, a growing installed
    base, and increased demand for remanufactured equipment. During
    fiscal 2004, operating income of $394 million reflected
    higher net sales and savings related to cost control initiatives.

30

Table of Contents   

Fiscal 2005 orders of $1.7 billion decreased 4 percent
    compared to fiscal 2004, reflecting customers  cost
    reduction initiatives and lower remanufactured systems orders,
    offset in part by a modest increase in wafer starts. Fiscal
    2005 net sales and operating income included Metron, which
    Applied acquired in December 2004, expanding the product and
    service portfolio with a wide range of outsourcing solutions.
    Net sales of $1.8 billion increased 6 percent in
    fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. Operating income of
    $400 million increased 1 percent in fiscal 2005
    compared to fiscal 2004, and included Metron integration costs.
    Applied also expanded its product portfolio with the addition of
    abatement systems, FAB300 manufacturing execution systems,
    products for assembly and test, kitting and cleaning, and other
    technology-focused fab offerings.

Orders of $2.3 billion increased 32 percent in 2006
    compared to 2005. Net sales of $2.2 billion increased
    25 percent in 2006 compared to 2005. Net sales reflected
    increases in spare parts shipments and service contracts as a
    result of higher wafer starts and an increase in 200mm
    remanufactured equipment investment. Operating income of
    $623 million increased 56 percent in 2006 compared to
    2005. During fiscal 2006, operating results reflected improved
    operational efficiencies and savings from cost control
    initiatives. Applied also expanded its product offerings with
    the introduction of abatement systems for reducing
    perfluorocompound (PFC) emissions and additional chamber
    performance services capabilities.

Display
    Segment   

Fiscal 2004 orders, net sales and operating income reflected
    increased end-user demand for LCD TVs and laptop displays.
    Demand also increased for small panels, driven by mobile phones
    with enhanced capabilities, such as color displays, cameras,
    larger screen sizes and higher resolutions. Operating income
    included RD&E expenses related to the development of the
    Gen-7 system. Seventh generation TFT-LCD substrates measure 1.8m
    x 2.2m and produce up to six
     46-inch 
    large screen displays.

Orders of $758 million decreased 10 percent in fiscal
    2005 compared to fiscal 2004. Fiscal 2005 orders reflected a
    lower demand for smaller panel equipment, offset in part by
    orders for Gen-7.5 systems as manufacturers migrated to
    larger-sized TFT-LCD display production. Net sales of
    $756 million increased 32 percent in fiscal 2005
    compared to fiscal 2004. Operating income of $254 million
    increased 43 percent in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal
    2004. Fiscal 2005 results included higher RD&E expenses.
    Applied introduced the Gen-8 AKT-50K PECVD system for
    manufacturing flat panel displays. This system processes 2.2m x
    2.4m glass substrates for producing up to six
     52-inch  LCD
    screens.

Orders of $1.0 billion increased 37 percent in fiscal
    2006 compared to fiscal 2005. During fiscal 2006, price
    reductions in consumer electronics accelerated the growth of the
    TFT-LCD display market. As a result, display manufacturers
    aggressively invested in Gen-7, Gen-7.5, and Gen-8 systems. In
    addition, laptop demand continued to be strong, resulting in
    additional Gen-5 and Gen-5.5 fab investment. With the
    acquisition of Applied Films in fiscal 2006, Applied entered the
    PVD color filter market. Net sales of $1.0 billion
    increased 28 percent in 2006 compared to 2005. During the
    last quarter of fiscal 2006, flat panel equipment demand began
    to slow as customers aligned their capacity plans and inventory
    levels. Operating income of $319 million increased
    25 percent in 2006 compared to 2005. Fiscal 2006 results
    included a $5 million IPR&D expense related to the
    acquisition of Applied Films. Applied launched three FPD
    systems, the AKT-55K EBT, the AKT-55K PECVD and the AKT-NEW
    ARISTO 2200, for manufacturing Gen-8.5 panels, sized at 2.2m x
    2.5m, which produce up to six
     55-inch  LCD
    screens.

31

Table of Contents   

Adjacent
    Technologies   

Orders and net sales in fiscal 2006 reflected the results of
    Applied Films  solar, flexible electronics and
    energy-efficient glass products that Applied acquired in the
    third quarter. Fiscal 2006 results included a $9 million
    IPR&D expense related to the acquisition of Applied Films.

Business
    Combinations and Equity-Method Investment   

On August 14, 2006, Applied s wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Metron Technology, Inc., purchased certain parts cleaning and
    recycling assets in Singapore from UMS Solutions for
    $10 million. The acquisition enhances Metron s
    capabilities in Southeast Asia to provide advanced, high-quality
    parts cleaning services to support its customers 
    semiconductor manufacturing requirements.

On July 20, 2006, Applied and Dainippon Screen Mfg. Co.,
    Ltd. (Screen) completed the formation of Sokudo Co., Ltd.
    (Sokudo), a Japanese joint venture company, to deliver advanced
    track solutions for customers  critical semiconductor
    manufacturing requirements. Track systems are a key part of
    semiconductor manufacturing and are used before and after
    photolithography to deposit, bake and develop the photoresist
    layer that defines circuit patterns. Screen owns 52 percent
    and holds the controlling interest in Sokudo, and Applied owns
    48 percent of Sokudo. Screen transferred into Sokudo its
    existing track business and related intellectual property,
    including employees, products and its installed base of systems.
    Applied paid $147 million for its investment in Sokudo.
    Additionally, Applied contributed to Sokudo certain technology
    and related intellectual property and will provide key
    development employees. Screen performs manufacturing for Sokudo
    under an outsourcing agreement.

On July 7, 2006, Applied completed its acquisition of
    Applied Films, a leading supplier of thin film deposition
    equipment used in manufacturing flat panel displays (FPDs),
    solar cells, flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass.
    Applied paid $28.50 per share in cash for each outstanding
    share of Applied Films for a total purchase price of
    approximately $484 million, or $328 million net of
    Applied Films  existing cash and marketable securities. As
    part of the acquisition, Applied assumed Applied Films 
    outstanding stock options and restricted stock awards that, at
    the acquisition date, had a total fair value of
    $26 million, of which $18 million was allocated to the
    purchase price and the remainder to unearned compensation. Upon
    the acquisition and subject to vesting, Applied Films stock
    options became exercisable for shares of Applied common stock
    and Applied Films restricted stock awards became payable in
    shares of Applied common stock totaling, in the aggregate, three
    million shares of Applied common stock.

On December 23, 2005, Applied acquired all of the
    outstanding shares of ChemTrace Corporation and ChemTrace
    Precision Cleaning, Inc. (collectively, ChemTrace) for
    approximately $22 million in cash, net of cash acquired, of
    which $18 million was paid upon closing. ChemTrace provides
    customers with precision parts cleaning and materials testing
    solutions.

On June 28, 2005, Applied purchased certain assets of SCP
    Global Technology, Inc. (SCP), consisting of single-wafer
    HF-last immersion technology and Marangoni clean/dry
    intellectual property, for approximately $24 million in
    cash.

On December 16, 2004, Applied acquired the assets of ATMI,
    Inc. s Treatment Systems business (EcoSys), which supports
    the gas abatement requirements of process equipment for
    semiconductor manufacturing and other industrial applications,
    for approximately $16 million in cash.

On December 14, 2004, Applied acquired substantially all of
    the operating subsidiaries and businesses of Metron Technology
    N.V., a provider of a range of products and services for
    fab-wide operations, for approximately $85 million in cash.

32

Table of Contents   

On June 14, 2004, Applied acquired Torrex Equipment
    Corporation, a developer of a multi-wafer system that utilizes
    chemical vapor deposition and atomic layer deposition processes
    to address front-end semiconductor manufacturing applications,
    for $7 million in cash.

For further details, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements   

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (FASB) issued Statement No. 158,  Employer s
    Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and
    132R  (SFAS 158). SFAS 158 requires an entity to
    recognize in its statement of financial condition the funded
    status of its defined benefit post-retirement plans, measured as
    the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the
    benefit obligation. SFAS 158 also requires an entity to
    recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit
    post-retirement plan directly to accumulated other comprehensive
    income, net of tax, to the extent such changes are not
    recognized in earnings as components of periodic net benefit
    cost. SFAS 158 is effective for Applied in fiscal 2007.
    Applied does not expect the implementation of this standard to
    have a material effect on Applied s financial position or
    results of operations.

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157,
     Fair Value  (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 defines
    fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
    expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157
    becomes effective for Applied in fiscal 2009. Applied is
    evaluating the potential impact of the implementation of
    SFAS 157 on its financial position and results of
    operations.

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued
    Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,  Considering
    the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying
    Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements 
    (SAB 108), which provides interpretive guidance on how the
    effects of the carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements
    should be considered in quantifying a current year misstatement.
    SAB 108 is effective for Applied in fiscal 2007. Applied
    does not expect the implementation of this staff accounting
    bulletin to have a material effect on Applied s financial
    position or results of operations.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation 48,
     Accounting for Income Tax Uncertainties 
    (FIN 48). FIN 48 defines the threshold for recognizing
    the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements
    as  more-likely-than-not  to be sustained by the
    taxing authority. The recently issued literature also provides
    guidance on the derecognition, measurement and classification of
    income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and
    penalties. FIN 48 also includes guidance concerning
    accounting for income tax uncertainties in interim periods and
    increases the level of disclosures associated with any recorded
    income tax uncertainties. FIN 48 will become effective for
    Applied beginning in fiscal 2008. Any differences between the
    amounts recognized in the statements of financial position prior
    to the adoption of FIN 48 and the amounts reported after
    adoption will be accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment
    recorded to the beginning balance of retained earnings. Applied
    is evaluating the potential impact of the implementation of
    FIN 48 on its financial position and results of operations.

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,
     Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial
    Instruments   an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 133 and 140  (SFAS 155). SFAS 155 amends
    SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities , and No. 140,
     Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities . SFAS 155 also
    resolves issues addressed in SFAS 133 Implementation Issue
    No. D1,  Application of Statement 133 to
    Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets .
    SFAS 155 (a) permits fair value remeasurement for any
    hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative
    that otherwise would require bifurcation, (b) clarifies
    which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not
    subject to the requirements of SFAS 133,
    (c) establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in
    securitized financial assets to identify interests that are
    freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial
    instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring
    bifurcation, (d) clarifies that concentrations of credit
    risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives,
    and (e) amends SFAS No. 140 to eliminate the
    prohibition on a qualifying special-purpose entity from holding
    a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial
    interest other than another derivative financial instrument.
    SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments
    acquired or issued after the beginning of Applied s 2007
    fiscal year. Applied is currently assessing the

33

Table of Contents   

impact of SFAS 155, however, it does not anticipate that
    SFAS 155 will have a material impact on its financial
    position and results of operations.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
     Accounting Changes and Error Corrections   a
    Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement
    No. 3  (SFAS 154), which requires retrospective
    application to prior periods  financial statements of
    voluntary changes in accounting principle unless it is
    impracticable to do so. SFAS 154 is effective for
    accounting changes and corrections of errors beginning in fiscal
    2007. Applied does not expect the implementation of this
    standard to have a material effect on Applied s financial
    position or results of operations.

Financial
    Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Applied s cash, cash equivalents and investments decreased
    from $6.0 billion at October 30, 2005 to
    $3.2 billion at October 29, 2006 due primarily to
    share repurchases and cash dividend distributions. Applied has
    not undertaken any significant external financing activities for
    several years.

Cash, cash-equivalents and investments consist of the following:

During fiscal 2006, Applied changed its accounting method for
    certain fixed-income investments, which resulted in the
    reclassification of these investments from short-term
    investments to long-term investments. As a result, prior period
    balances have been reclassified to conform to the current
    period s presentation. This accounting method is based on
    the contractual maturity dates of fixed-income securities as
    current or long-term, while the prior classification was based
    on the nature of the securities and the availability for use in
    current operations. Applied believes this presentation method is
    preferable as it is more reflective of Applied s assessment
    of the timing of when such securities will be converted to cash.
    Accordingly, certain fixed-income investments of
    $2.6 billion have been reclassified from short-term
    investments to long-term investments in the October 30,
    2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet to conform to the fiscal 2006
    financial statement presentation. In connection with this
    reclassification, short-term deferred taxes have been
    reclassified to long-term deferred taxes. There have been no
    changes in Applied s investment policies or practices
    associated with this change in accounting method. In addition,
    $50 million of long-term equity securities previously
    reported in other long-term assets have been reclassified to
    long-term investments in the October 30, 2005 Consolidated
    Balance Sheet to conform to the fiscal 2006 financial statement
    presentation. Applied continues to classify auction rate
    securities and variable rate demand notes as current assets,
    notwithstanding the underlying contractual term of such
    investments, since the highly liquid nature of these investments
    enables them to be readily convertible to cash.

Applied generated cash from operating activities of
    $1.6 billion for fiscal 2004, $1.2 billion for fiscal
    2005 and $1.9 billion for fiscal 2006. The primary sources
    of cash from operating activities have been net income, as
    adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash charges including
    depreciation, amortization, equity-based compensation, asset
    impairments and restructuring and IPR&D expenses, and
    changes in working capital levels, including accounts receivable
    and inventories. Applied utilized programs to sell accounts
    receivable of $859 million for fiscal 2004,
    $158 million for fiscal 2005 and $245 million for
    fiscal 2006. The sales of these accounts receivable increased
    cash and reduced accounts receivable and days sales outstanding.
    Days sales outstanding were 69 days at the end of fiscal
    2004, compared to 85 days at the end of fiscal 2005 and
    80 days at the end of fiscal 2006. A portion of these sold
    accounts receivable is subject to certain limited recourse
    provisions. However, Applied has not experienced any losses
    under these programs. Availability and usage of these accounts
    receivable sale agreements depend on many factors, including the
    willingness of financial institutions to purchase receivables
    and the cost of such arrangements. The decrease in days sales
    outstanding in fiscal 2006 is primarily related to the change in
    the regional sales mix and

34

Table of Contents   

the resulting relative increase in the amount of sold accounts
    receivable. For further details regarding accounts receivable
    sales, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. Inventories increased by $373 million in fiscal
    2006, which related to the increase in business volume and sales
    activity from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2006.

Applied used $534 million of cash for investing activities
    for fiscal 2004, $179 million for fiscal 2005, and
    generated $2.0 billion during fiscal 2006. Applied s
    investing activities included purchases of investments, net of
    sales and maturities, of $336 million for fiscal 2004.
    Proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, net of
    purchases of investments, totaled $122 million for fiscal
    2005 and $2.6 billion for fiscal 2006. Proceeds from the
    sale of investments in fiscal 2006 were used principally to
    fund Applied s accelerated stock buyback.

Capital expenditures were $191 million for fiscal 2004,
    $200 million for fiscal 2005, and $179 million for
    fiscal 2006, totaling $570 million for the past three
    years. The majority of capital spending was for application
    laboratories, equipment and related facilities. Fiscal 2004
    capital expenditures consisted principally of laboratory and
    demonstration equipment. Fiscal 2005 capital expenditures
    included investment in laboratory equipment and upgrades to
    Applied s enterprise resource planning software and network
    architecture. Fiscal 2006 capital expenditures included
    purchases of lab equipment, network infrastructure and
    $18 million to purchase three buildings in
    Santa Clara, California that Applied had previously leased.

Investing activities also included investments in technology and
    acquisitions of companies to allow Applied to access new market
    opportunities or emerging technologies. During fiscal 2005,
    Applied paid $102 million, net of cash acquired, for the
    Metron and EcoSys acquisitions. During fiscal 2006, Applied paid
    cash for acquisitions and the investment in a joint venture
    totaling $486 million. During fiscal 2006, Applied acquired
    the outstanding stock of Applied Films for $310 million in
    cash, net of cash and marketable securities acquired and assumed
    equity awards with a fair value of $26 million, of which
    $18 million was included in the purchase price; formed a
    joint venture, Sokudo, with Dainippon Screen Mfg. Ltd. for which
    Applied paid $147 million in cash and contributed other
    assets; acquired certain assets of UMS Solutions for
    $10 million; and acquired ChemTrace for approximately
    $22 million in cash, net of cash acquired, of which
    $18 million was paid upon closing. See Note 13 of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    details.

Applied used cash of $359 million for financing activities
    for fiscal 2004, $1.6 billion for fiscal 2005 and
    $4.1 billion for 2006. Financing activities included
    issuances and repurchases of common stock and payment of
    dividends. Since March 1996, Applied has systematically
    repurchased shares of its common stock in the open market to
    partially fund its equity-based employee benefit and incentive
    plans. Cash used to repurchase shares totaled $650 million
    for fiscal 2004, $1.7 billion for fiscal 2005 and
    $4.2 billion for fiscal 2006. Beginning in the second
    fiscal quarter of 2005, Applied s Board of Directors
    declared four consecutive quarterly cash dividends, in the
    amount of $0.03 per share each. The first two declared cash
    dividends totaling $98 million were paid during fiscal
    2005. Beginning in the second fiscal quarter of 2006,
    Applied s Board declared three consecutive quarterly cash
    dividends, in the amount of $0.05 per share each. Cash
    dividends declared, totaling $251 million, were paid during
    fiscal 2006. The declaration of any future cash dividend is at
    the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on the
    Company s financial condition, results of operations,
    capital requirements, business conditions and other factors.
    Financing activities also included borrowings and repayments of
    debt. Applied did not borrow any cash in fiscal years 2004, 2005
    or 2006. During fiscal 2006, Applied entered into a
    $100 million
     364-day 
    unsecured credit agreement, which replaced a $250 million
    credit facility that expired during the year. Cash used for debt
    repayments totaled $105 million for fiscal 2004,
    $62 million for fiscal 2005 and $8 million for fiscal
    2006. Cash generated from issuances of common stock pursuant to
    Applied s equity compensation programs totaled
    $397 million for fiscal 2004, $266 million for fiscal
    2005 and $361 million for fiscal 2006.

On September 18, 2006, Applied entered into accelerated
    stock buyback agreements with Goldman, Sachs & Co.
    (Goldman Sachs) under which Applied agreed to repurchase from
    Goldman Sachs shares of Applied s outstanding common stock
    for an initial purchase price of $2.5 billion. Under the
    agreements, Applied purchased from Goldman Sachs
    145 million shares of Applied s common stock on
    September 18, 2006 at a price per share of $17.20 and
    Goldman Sachs agreed to purchase an equivalent number of shares
    in the open market over the following four months. At the end of
    the four month period, Applied is entitled or subject to a price
    adjustment with Goldman Sachs based upon the volume weighted
    average price of Applied common stock during the purchase
    period. The price adjustment, if any, may be settled, at
    Applied s option, in cash or shares of its common stock.
    The

35

Table of Contents   

repurchase was funded with Applied s existing cash and
    investments. The repurchased shares were reported as treasury
    stock.

Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing
    and extent of factors such as those discussed above,
    Applied s management believes that cash generated from
    operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing
    cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to
    satisfy Applied s liquidity requirements for the next
    12 months. For further details regarding Applied s
    operating, investing and financing activities for each of the
    three years in the period ended October 29, 2006, see the
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in this report.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements   

During the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby
    letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third
    parties as required for certain transactions initiated either by
    Applied or its subsidiaries. As of October 29, 2006, the
    maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could
    be required to make under these guarantee agreements was
    approximately $114 million. Applied has not recorded any
    liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements beyond
    that required to appropriately account for the underlying
    transaction being guaranteed. Applied does not believe, based on
    historical experience and information currently available, that
    it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid
    under these guarantee arrangements.

Applied also has operating leases for various facilities. Total
    rental expense for operating leases was $88 million for
    fiscal 2004, $87 million for fiscal 2005 and
    $70 million for fiscal 2006.

Contractual
    Obligations   

The following table summarizes Applied s contractual
    obligations as of October 29, 2006:

*  

Represents Applied s agreements to purchase goods and
    services consisting of Applied s (a) outstanding
    purchase orders for goods and services; (b) contractual
    requirements to make specified minimum payments even if Applied
    does not take delivery of the contracted goods; and
    (c) contractual requirements to pay a penalty if a contract
    is cancelled. While the amount above represents Applied s
    purchase agreements as of October 29, 2006, the actual
    amounts to be paid by Applied may be less in the event that any
    agreements are renegotiated, cancelled or terminated. 

Other
    Commitments   

On July 20, 2006, Applied and Screen completed the
    formation of Sokudo, a Japanese joint venture company, to
    deliver advanced track solutions for customers  critical
    semiconductor manufacturing requirements. Screen owns
    52 percent and holds the controlling interest in Sokudo,
    and Applied owns 48 percent. Screen transferred into Sokudo
    its existing track business and related intellectual property,
    including employees, products and its installed base of systems.
    Applied paid $147 million for its investment in Sokudo.
    Additionally, Applied contributed to Sokudo certain technology
    and related intellectual property and will provide key
    development employees. Screen performs manufacturing for Sokudo
    under an outsourcing agreement. Applied accounts for its
    interest in Sokudo under the equity method of accounting. Under
    this accounting method, Applied s exposure to loss from
    ongoing

36

Table of Contents   

operations is limited to $144 million as of
    October 29, 2006, which represents Applied s carrying
    value of its investment in Sokudo. Applied s investment in
    Sokudo is classified as an equity-method investment on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Critical
    Accounting Policies  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements and related
    disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States of America requires management to
    make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the
    amounts reported. Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements describes the significant accounting policies used in
    the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
    Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered
    to be critical accounting policies.

A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both
    material to the presentation of Applied s consolidated
    financial statements and requires management to make difficult,
    subjective or complex judgments that could have a material
    effect on Applied s financial condition or results of
    operations. Specifically, these policies have the following
    attributes: (1) Applied is required to make assumptions
    about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the
    estimate; and (2) different estimates Applied could
    reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are
    reasonably likely to occur, would have a material effect on
    Applied s financial condition or results of operations.

Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects
    cannot be determined with certainty. Applied bases its estimates
    on historical experience and on various other assumptions
    believed to be applicable and reasonable under the
    circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur,
    as additional information is obtained and as Applied s
    operating environment changes. These changes have historically
    been minor and have been included in the consolidated financial
    statements as soon as they became known. In addition, management
    is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which
    are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged
    periods of time. These uncertainties are discussed in the
    section above entitled  Risk Factors.  Based on a
    critical assessment of its accounting policies and the
    underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application
    of those policies, management believes that Applied s
    consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America, and provide a meaningful presentation
    of Applied s financial condition and results of operations.

Management believes that the following are critical accounting
    policies:

Warranty
    Costs   

Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue
    is recognized. Estimated warranty costs are determined by
    analyzing specific product and historical configuration
    statistics and regional warranty support costs. Applied s
    warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure
    rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting
    product failures during the warranty period. As Applied s
    customer engineers and process support engineers are highly
    trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a
    significant factor in determining labor costs. The quantity and
    availability of critical replacement parts is another
    significant factor in estimating warranty costs. Unforeseen
    component failures or exceptional component performance can also
    result in changes to warranty costs. If actual warranty costs
    differ substantially from Applied s estimates, revisions to
    the estimated warranty liability would be required, which could
    have a material adverse effect on Applied s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.

Inventory
    Valuation   

Inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market,
    with cost determined on a
     first-in, 
    first-out basis. The carrying value of inventory is reduced for
    estimated obsolescence by the difference between its cost and
    the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future
    demand. Applied evaluates the inventory carrying value for
    potential excess and obsolete inventory exposures by analyzing
    historical and anticipated demand. In addition, inventories are
    evaluated for potential obsolescence due to the effect of known
    and anticipated engineering change orders and new products. If
    actual demand were to be substantially lower than estimated,
    additional inventory adjustments for excess or obsolete
    inventory might be required, which could have a material adverse
    effect on Applied s business, financial condition and
    results of operations.

37

Table of Contents   

Goodwill
    and Intangible Assets   

Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment
    whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
    carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also
    reviews goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives annually
    for impairment. Intangible assets, such as purchased technology,
    are generally recorded in connection with a business
    acquisition. The value assigned to intangible assets is usually
    based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the
    success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If
    actual product acceptance differs significantly from the
    estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment
    charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. The fair
    value of a reporting unit is estimated using the market
    multiples approach, and is dependent on market values for
    companies in a similar industry. A severe decline in market
    value could result in an unexpected impairment charge for
    impaired goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on
    Applied s business, financial condition and results of
    operations.

Income
    Taxes   

Applied accounts for income taxes by recognizing deferred tax
    assets and liabilities using statutory tax rates for the effect
    of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of
    recorded assets and liabilities, net operating losses and tax
    credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are also reduced by a
    valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion
    of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Management has
    determined that it is more likely than not that its future
    taxable income will be sufficient to realize its deferred tax
    assets.

The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic
    composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing
    each region, non-tax deductible expenses incurred in connection
    with acquisitions and availability of tax credits. Management
    carefully monitors the changes in many factors and adjusts the
    effective income tax rate as required. If actual results differ
    from these estimates, Applied could be required to record a
    valuation allowance on deferred tax assets or adjust its
    effective income tax rate, which could have a material adverse
    effect on Applied s business, financial condition and
    results of operations.

The calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment
    in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of
    complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner
    inconsistent with Applied s expectations could have a
    material impact on Applied s results of operations and
    financial condition.

Equity-Based
    Compensation   Employee Stock Option Plans and
    Employee Stock Purchase Plans   

Beginning on October 31, 2005, Applied began accounting for
    stock options and Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) shares
    under the provisions of SFAS 123(R), which requires
    recognition of the fair value of equity-based compensation. The
    fair value of stock options and ESPP shares was estimated using
    a Black-Scholes option valuation model. This methodology
    requires the use of subjective assumptions in implementing
    SFAS 123(R), including expected stock price volatility and
    the estimated life of each award. The fair value of equity-based
    compensation awards less the estimated forfeitures is amortized
    over the service period of the award, and Applied has elected to
    use the straight-line method. Applied makes quarterly
    assessments of the adequacy of the tax credit pool to determine
    if there are any deficiencies that require recognition in the
    consolidated condensed statements of operations. Prior to the
    implementation of SFAS 123(R), Applied accounted for stock
    options and ESPP shares under the provisions of APB 25 and
    made pro forma footnote disclosures as required by
    SFAS No. 148,  Accounting For Stock-Based
    Compensation   Transition and Disclosure  
    an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123,  which amended
    SFAS No. 123,  Accounting For Stock-Based
    Compensation.  Pro forma net income and pro forma net
    income per share disclosed in the footnotes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements were estimated using a Black-Scholes option
    valuation model. The fair value of restricted stock units was
    calculated based upon the fair market value of Applied s
    common stock at the date of grant (see Note 1 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements).

Legal
    Matters   

Applied is subject to various legal proceedings and claims,
    either asserted or unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course
    of business. Applied evaluates, among other factors, the degree
    of probability of an unfavorable outcome and reasonably
    estimates the amount of the loss. Significant judgment is
    required in both the probability

38

Table of Contents   

determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably
    estimated. When Applied determines that it is probable that a
    loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable,
    the effect is recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
    Although the outcome of these claims cannot be predicted with
    certainty, Applied does not believe that any of the existing
    legal matters will have a material adverse effect on its
    financial condition or results of operations. However,
    significant changes in legal proceedings and claims, or the
    factors considered in the evaluation of those matters, could
    have a material adverse effect on Applied s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.

Item 7A:    

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Interest
    Rate Risk  

At October 29, 2006, Applied s investment portfolio
    included fixed-income securities with a fair value of
    approximately $2.4 billion. Applied s primary
    objective for investing in fixed-income securities is to
    preserve principal while maximizing returns and minimizing risk.
    These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will
    decline in value if interest rates increase. Based on
    Applied s investment portfolio at October 29, 2006 and
    October 30, 2005, an immediate 100 basis point
    increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in the
    fair value of the portfolio of approximately $28 million
    and $65 million, respectively. While an increase in
    interest rates reduces the fair value of the investment
    portfolio, Applied will not realize the losses in the
    Consolidated Statement of Operations unless the individual
    fixed-income securities are sold prior to recovery or the loss
    is determined to be
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired.

Applied s long-term debt bears interest at fixed rates. As
    such, Applied s interest expense would increase only to the
    extent that Applied significantly increased the amount of
    variable rate obligations outstanding. Due to the short-term
    nature and relatively low amount of Applied s variable rate
    obligations, an immediate 100 basis point increase in
    interest rates would not be expected to have a material effect
    on Applied s near-term financial condition or results of
    operations.

Foreign
    Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

Certain operations of Applied are conducted in foreign
    currencies, such as Japanese yen, British pound, euro and
    Israeli shekel. Applied enters into forward exchange and
    currency option contracts to hedge a portion of, but not all,
    existing and anticipated foreign currency denominated
    transactions expected to occur within 12 months. Gains and
    losses on these contracts are generally recognized in the
    Consolidated Statements of Operations at the time that the
    related transactions being hedged are recognized. Because the
    effect of movements in currency exchange rates on forward
    exchange and currency option contracts generally offsets the
    related effect on the underlying items being hedged, these
    financial instruments are not expected to subject Applied to
    risks that would otherwise result from changes in currency
    exchange rates. Applied does not use derivative financial
    instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Net foreign
    currency gains and losses did not have a material effect on
    Applied s results of operations for fiscal 2004, 2005 or
    2006.

Forward exchange contracts are denominated in the same currency
    as the underlying transactions (primarily Japanese yen, British
    pound, euro and Israeli shekel), and the terms of the forward
    exchange contracts generally match the terms of the underlying
    transactions. Applied s outstanding forward exchange
    contracts are
     marked-to-market 
    (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements),
    as are the majority of the related underlying transactions being
    hedged; therefore, the effect of exchange rate changes on
    forward exchange contracts is expected to be substantially
    offset by the effect of these changes on the underlying
    transactions. The effect of an immediate 10 percent change
    in exchange rates on forward exchange contracts and the
    underlying hedged transactions is not expected to be material to
    Applied s near-term financial condition or results of
    operations. Applied s risk with respect to currency option
    contracts is limited to the premium paid for the right to
    exercise the option. Premiums paid for options outstanding at
    October 29, 2006 were not material.

Item 8:    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

The consolidated financial statements required by this Item are
    set forth on the pages indicated at Item 15(a).

39

Table of Contents   

Item 9:    

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A:    

Controls
    and Procedures   

Disclosure Controls and Procedures.    As
    of the end of the period covered by this report, management of
    Applied conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and with
    the participation of Applied s Chief Executive Officer and
    Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and
    operation of Applied s disclosure controls and procedures,
    as such term is defined in
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). Based
    upon that evaluation, Applied s Chief Executive Officer and
    Chief Financial Officer concluded that Applied s disclosure
    controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the
    period covered by this report in ensuring that information
    required to be disclosed was recorded, processed, summarized and
    reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s
    rules and forms, and to provide reasonable assurance that
    information required to be disclosed by Applied in such reports
    is accumulated and communicated to the Company s
    management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
    regarding required disclosure.

Management s Report on Internal Control over
    Financial Reporting.    Applied s
    management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term
    is defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    of the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the
    participation of Applied s Chief Executive Officer and
    Chief Financial Officer, management of Applied conducted an
    evaluation of the effectiveness of Applied s internal
    control over financial reporting based upon the framework in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework 
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission. Based on that evaluation, Applied s
    management concluded that Applied s internal control over
    financial reporting was effective as of October 29, 2006.

KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has
    audited the consolidated financial statements included in this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and, as part of the audit, has issued a report, included herein,
    on (1) Applied s management s assessment of the
    effectiveness of Applied s internal control over financial
    reporting and (2) the effectiveness of Applied s
    internal control over financial reporting as of October 29,
    2006.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting.    During the fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2006, there were no changes in the internal control over
    financial reporting that materially affected, or are reasonably
    likely to materially affect, Applied s internal control
    over financial reporting.

Inherent Limitations of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
    and Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting.    It should be noted that any system
    of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide
    only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives
    of the system will be met. In addition, the design of any
    control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about
    the likelihood of future events.

Item 9B:    

Other
    Information   

None.

40

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Stockholders and Board of Directors 
    Applied Materials, Inc.:

We have audited management s assessment, included in the
    accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over
    Financial Reporting in Item 9A: Controls and Procedures,
    that Applied Materials, Inc. maintained effective internal
    control over financial reporting as of October 29, 2006,
    based on the criteria established in  Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (COSO). Applied Materials, Inc. s management is responsible
    for maintaining effective internal control over financial
    reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is
    to express an opinion on management s assessment and an
    opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
    control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
    management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
    such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management s assessment that Applied
    Materials, Inc. maintained effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of October 29, 2006, is fairly
    stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by COSO. Also, in our opinion, Applied
    Materials, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective
    internal control over financial reporting as of October 29,
    2006, based on the criteria established in  Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework  issued by COSO.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Applied Materials, Inc. as of
    October 29, 2006 and October 30, 2005, and the related
    consolidated statements of operations, stockholders 
    equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
    period ended October 29, 2006. In connection with our
    audits of the consolidated financial statements, we have also
    audited the financial statement schedule as of and for each of
    the years in the three-year period ended October 29, 2006.
    Our report dated December 14, 2006 expressed an unqualified
    opinion on those consolidated financial statements and financial
    statement schedule.

/s/   KPMG
    LLP 

KPMG LLP

Mountain View, California

December 14, 2006

41

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Pursuant to Paragraph G(3) of the General Instructions to
     Form 10-K, 
    portions of the information required by Part III of
     Form 10-K 
    are incorporated by reference from Applied s Proxy
    Statement to be filed with the SEC in connection with the 2007
    Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Proxy Statement).

Item 10:    

Directors
    and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

(1) Information concerning directors, including
    Applied s audit committee financial expert, appears in the
    Proxy Statement under  Election of Directors,  and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(2) For information with respect to Executive Officers, see
    Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    under  Executive Officers of the Registrant. 

(3) Information concerning Section 16(a) beneficial
    ownership reporting compliance appears in the Proxy Statement,
    under  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance,  and is incorporated herein by reference.

Applied has adopted the Standards of Business Conduct, a code of
    ethics with which every person who works for Applied and every
    member of the Board of Directors is expected to comply. If any
    substantive amendments are made to the Standards of Business
    Conduct or any waiver is granted, including any implicit waiver,
    from a provision of the code to Applied s Chief Executive
    Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer,
    Applied will disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on
    its website or in a report on
     Form 8-K. 
    The above information, including the Standards of Business
    Conduct, is available on Applied s website under the
    Investors section at
      http://www.appliedmaterials.com/investors/index.html.  
    This website address is intended to be an inactive, textual
    reference only. None of the material on this website is part of
    this report.

Item 11:    

Executive
    Compensation   

Information concerning executive compensation appears in the
    Proxy Statement, under  Executive Compensation and Related
    Information,  and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12:    

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

Information concerning the security ownership of certain
    beneficial owners and management appears in the Proxy Statement,
    under  Principal Stockholders,  and is incorporated
    herein by reference.

The following table summarizes information with respect to
    options and other equity awards under Applied s equity
    compensation plans as of October 29, 2006:

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

42

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Includes only options and restricted stock units (referred to as
     performance shares  under the Applied Materials, Inc.
    Employee Stock Incentive Plan) outstanding under Applied s
    equity compensation plans, as no stock warrants or other rights
    were outstanding as of October 29, 2006. 

(2)  

The weighted average exercise price of outstanding options,
    warrants and rights does not take restricted stock units into
    account as restricted stock units have a de minimis purchase
    price. 

(3)  

Includes 6,894 shares of Applied common stock reserved for
    future issuance under the Applied Materials, Inc.
    Employees  Stock Purchase Plan. 

(4)  

Includes options to purchase 3,310 shares of Applied common
    stock assumed through various mergers and acquisitions, after
    giving effect to the applicable exchange ratios. These assumed
    options had a weighted average exercise price of $13.16 per
    share. No further shares are available for issuance under these
    plans under which these options were granted. 

(5)  

Includes 3,775 shares of Applied common stock reserved for
    future issuance under the Applied Materials, Inc. Stock Purchase
    Plan for Offshore Employees. 

Applied has the following equity compensation plans that have
    not been approved by stockholders (share numbers shown in
    thousands):

2000 Global Equity Incentive Plan  The 2000 Global Equity
    Incentive Plan (the 2000 Plan) was adopted effective as of
    June 21, 2000. The 2000 Plan provides for the grant of
    non-qualified stock options to employees other than officers and
    directors. The administrator of the 2000 Plan (either the Board
    or a committee appointed by the Board) determines the terms and
    conditions of all stock options granted; provided, however, that
    (1) the exercise price generally may not be less than
    100 percent of the fair market value (on the date of grant)
    of the stock covered by the option, and (2) the term of
    options can be no longer than 10 years (extended to up to
    13 years in the event of death). A total of
    147,000 shares has been authorized for issuance under the
    2000 Plan, and 19,198 shares remain available for issuance
    as of October 29, 2006.

Stock Purchase Plan for Offshore Employees  The Stock
    Purchase Plan for Offshore Employees (the Offshore ESPP) was
    adopted effective as of October 16, 1995. The Offshore ESPP
    provides for the grant of stock options to employees (other than
    United States citizens or residents) through one or more
    offerings. The administrator of the Offshore ESPP (the Board or
    a committee appointed by the Board) determines the terms and
    conditions of all options prior to the start of an offering,
    including the option exercise price, number of shares covered
    and when an option may be exercised. All options granted as part
    of an offering must be granted on the same date. A total of
    12,800 shares has been authorized for issuance under the
    Offshore Plan, and 3,775 shares remain available for
    issuance as of October 29, 2006.

Item 13:    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions   

The information appearing in the Proxy Statement under the
    heading  Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14:    

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services   

Information concerning principal accounting fees and services
    and the audit committee s preapproval policies and
    procedures appears in the Proxy Statement under the heading
     Fees Paid to KPMG LLP  and is incorporated herein by
    reference.

43

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15:    

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K: 

Page 

Number 

(1)  Financial
    Statements:

Consolidated Statements of
    Operations for each of the three years in the period ended
    October 29, 2006

45

Consolidated Balance Sheets at
    October 30, 2005 and October 29, 2006

46

Consolidated Statements of
    Stockholders  Equity for each of the three years in the
    period ended October 29, 2006

47

Consolidated Statements of Cash
    Flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    October 29, 2006

48

Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements

49

Report of KPMG LLP, Independent
    Registered Public Accounting Firm

80

(2)  Financial Statement
    Schedule:

Schedule II  
    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for each of the three years in
    the period ended October 29, 2006

86

(3)  Exhibits:

The exhibits listed in the
    accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed or incorporated by
    reference as part of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
    or the required information is shown in the Consolidated
    Financial Statements or Notes thereto.

44

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

45

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

46

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

47

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

48

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note 1    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Principles of Consolidation and Basis of
    Presentation   The consolidated financial
    statements include the accounts of Applied Materials, Inc. and
    its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) after elimination of
    intercompany balances and transactions. All references to a
    fiscal year apply to Applied s fiscal year which ends on
    the last Sunday in October. Fiscal 2005 and 2006 contained
    52 weeks, whereas fiscal 2004 contained 53 weeks. The
    first fiscal quarter of 2005 and 2006 each contained
    13 weeks, whereas the first fiscal quarter of 2004
    contained 14 weeks.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial
    statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ
    materially from those estimates.

Reclassifications   The accompanying
    consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2004 and fiscal
    2005 contain certain reclassifications to conform to the fiscal
    2006 presentation. These consist of reclassification to
    long-term investments of $2.6 billion for fiscal 2005 of
    certain fixed-income securities, excluding auction rate
    securities and variable rate demand notes, previously reported
    in short-term investments in fiscal 2005 and related deferred
    taxes. The reclassifications resulted from a change in
    accounting for fixed-income investments based on contractual
    maturity dates. In connection with this reclassification,
    short-term deferred taxes were reclassified to long-term
    deferred taxes. In addition, certain long-term equity
    securities, previously reported in other long-term assets, are
    also now included in long-term investments. There were no
    changes in Applied s investment policies or practices
    associated with this change in accounting method.

During fiscal 2006, Applied began disclosing treasury stock on
    the Consolidated Balance Sheets and in the Consolidated
    Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity. Prior amounts have
    been restated to conform to the fiscal 2006 presentation.
    Repurchases of common stock are accounted for under the par
    value method. The cost of reissued shares was determined on a
     first-in, 
    first-out (FIFO) basis.

Cash Equivalents and Investments   All
    highly-liquid investments with a remaining maturity of three
    months or less at the time of purchase are considered to be cash
    equivalents. All of Applied s investments are classified as
     available-for-sale 
    at the respective balance sheet dates. Investments classified as
     available-for-sale 
    are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices, and
    any temporary difference between the cost and fair value of an
    investment is presented as a separate component of accumulated
    other comprehensive income/(loss). The specific identification
    method is used to determine the gains and losses on investments.

Inventories   Inventories are generally stated
    at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a FIFO
    basis.

Property, Plant and Equipment   Property, plant
    and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation is provided over
    the estimated useful lives of the assets using the straight-line
    method. Estimated useful lives for financial reporting purposes
    are as follows: buildings and improvements, 3 to 30 years;
    demonstration and manufacturing equipment, 3 to
    5 years; software, 3 to 5 years; and furniture,
    fixtures and other equipment, 3 to 15 years. Land
    improvements are amortized over the shorter of 15 years or
    the estimated useful life. Leasehold improvements are amortized
    over the shorter of five years or the lease term.

Intangible Assets   Goodwill and
    indefinite-lived assets are not amortized, but are reviewed for
    impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal
    year. Purchased technology and other intangible assets are
    presented at cost, net of accumulated amortization, and are
    amortized over their estimated useful lives of
    2 to 15 years using the straight-line method.

Long-Lived Assets   Applied reviews long-lived
    assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets
    may not be recoverable. Applied assesses these assets for
    impairment based on estimated future cash flows from these
    assets.

49

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Research, Development and Engineering
    Costs   Research, development and engineering costs
    are expensed as incurred.

Advertising Costs   Advertising costs are
    expensed as incurred. Advertising costs were not material for
    all periods presented.

Income Taxes   Income tax expense is based on
    pretax earnings. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
    recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary
    differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets
    and liabilities, net operating losses and tax credit
    carryforwards.

Revenue Recognition   Applied recognizes revenue
    when all four revenue recognition criteria have been met:
    persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery has
    occurred or services have been rendered; seller s price to
    buyer is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is reasonably
    assured. Applied s shipping terms are customarily FOB
    Applied shipping point or equivalent terms. Applied s
    revenue recognition policy generally results in revenue
    recognition at the following points: (1) for all
    transactions where legal title passes to the customer upon
    shipment, Applied recognizes revenue upon shipment for all
    products that have been demonstrated to meet product
    specifications prior to shipment; the portion of revenue
    associated with certain installation-related tasks is deferred
    based on the estimated fair value, and that revenue is
    recognized upon completion of the installation-related tasks;
    (2) for products that have not been demonstrated to meet
    product specifications prior to shipment, revenue is recognized
    at customer technical acceptance; (3) for transactions
    where legal title does not pass at shipment, revenue is
    recognized when legal title passes to the customer, which is
    typically at customer technical acceptance, and (4) for
    arrangements containing multiple elements, the revenue relating
    to the undelivered elements is deferred at estimated fair value
    until delivery of the deferred elements. In cases where Applied
    has sold products that have been demonstrated to meet product
    specifications prior to shipment, Applied believes that at the
    time of delivery, it has an enforceable claim to amounts
    recognized as revenue. Spare parts revenue is generally
    recognized upon shipment, and services revenue is generally
    recognized over the period that the services are provided.

Derivative Financial Instruments   Applied uses
    financial instruments, such as forward exchange and currency
    option contracts, to hedge a portion of, but not all, existing
    and anticipated foreign currency denominated transactions
    expected to occur within 12 months. The terms of currency
    instruments used for hedging purposes are generally consistent
    with the timing of the transactions being hedged. The purpose of
    Applied s foreign currency management is to mitigate the
    effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency
    denominated revenues, costs and eventual cash flows. All of
    Applied s derivative financial instruments are recorded at
    fair value based upon quoted market prices for comparable
    instruments. For derivative instruments designated and
    qualifying as cash flow hedges of anticipated foreign currency
    denominated transactions, the effective portion of the gain or
    loss on these hedges is reported as a component of accumulated
    other comprehensive income/(loss) in stockholders  equity,
    and is reclassified into earnings when the hedged transaction
    affects earnings. If the transaction being hedged fails to
    occur, or if a portion of any derivative is ineffective, the
    gain or loss on the associated financial instrument is recorded
    promptly in earnings. For derivative instruments used to hedge
    existing foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities, the
    gain or loss on these hedges is recorded promptly in earnings to
    offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or
    liabilities being hedged. Applied does not use derivative
    financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

Foreign Currency Translation   Applied s
    subsidiaries, with the exception primarily of the subsidiary
    located in the United Kingdom, use the United States dollar as
    their functional currency. Accordingly, assets and liabilities
    of these subsidiaries are translated using exchange rates in
    effect at the end of the period, except for non-monetary assets,
    such as inventories and property, plant and equipment, that are
    translated using historical exchange rates. Revenues and costs
    are translated using average exchange rates for the period,
    except for costs related to those balance sheet items that are
    translated using historical exchange rates. The resulting
    translation gains and losses are included in the Consolidated
    Statements of Operations as incurred. Applied s subsidiary
    located in the United Kingdom operates primarily using the
    British pound, and therefore, the British pound has been
    determined to be the functional currency for the United Kingdom
    subsidiary. Accordingly, all assets and liabilities of this

50

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

subsidiary are translated using exchange rates in effect at the
    end of the period, and revenues and costs are translated using
    average exchange rates for the period. The resulting translation
    adjustments are presented as a separate component of accumulated
    other comprehensive income/(loss) in stockholders  equity.

Equity-Based
    Compensation   

Applied has adopted equity-based compensation plans that provide
    for the grant to employees of equity-based awards, including
    stock options and, beginning in fiscal 2005, restricted stock
    units (referred to as performance shares under the Applied
    Materials, Inc. Employee Stock Incentive Plan). In addition,
    certain of these plans provide for the automatic grant of stock
    options to non-employee directors and permit the grant of
    equity-based awards to consultants. Applied also has two
    Employee Stock Purchase Plans (ESPP) for United States and
    international employees, respectively, which enable
    substantially all employees to purchase Applied common stock.

On October 31, 2005, Applied implemented the provisions of
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
     No. 123(R),
       Share-Based Payment  (SFAS 123(R)),
    using the modified prospective transition method.  
    SFAS 123(R) requires companies to recognize the cost of
    employee services received in exchange for awards of equity
    instruments based upon the grant-date fair value of those
    awards. Using the modified prospective transition method of
    adopting
     SFAS 123(R),
      Applied began recognizing compensation expense for stock
    options and ESPP shares granted after October 30, 2005,
    plus equity-based awards granted prior to, and unvested as of
    October 31, 2005. As provided under this method of
    implementation, prior periods have not been restated. The
    estimated fair value of Applied s equity-based awards, less
    expected forfeitures, is amortized over the awards  service
    period on a straight-line basis.

On November 10, 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards
    Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff position
    No. FAS 123(R)-3  Transition Election Related to
    Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards. 
    Applied has elected to adopt the alternative transition method
    provided in the FASB Staff Position for calculating the tax
    effects of equity-based compensation pursuant to
    SFAS 123(R). The alternative transition method includes
    simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of the
    additional paid-in capital pool (APIC pool) related to the tax
    effects of employee equity-based compensation, and to determine
    the subsequent impact on the APIC pool and Consolidated
    Statement of Cash Flows of the tax effects of employee
    equity-based compensation awards that are outstanding upon the
    implementation of SFAS 123(R).

The equity-based compensation expense for fiscal 2006 included
    $30 million related to restricted stock units. The expense
    related to restricted stock units would have been included in
    Applied s Consolidated Statements of Operations under the
    provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
     Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees 
    (APB 25) and is therefore excluded from the impact of
    the implementation of SFAS 123(R) for fiscal 2006. As a
    result of adopting SFAS 123(R), Applied s income
    before taxes and net income for fiscal 2006 was reduced by
    $186 million and $146 million, respectively. The
    implementation of SFAS 123(R), which resulted in the
    expensing of stock options and the ESPP over the vesting or
    purchase period, as applicable, reduced basic and fully diluted
    earnings per share by $0.09 for fiscal 2006.

Total equity-based compensation expense recognized in the
    Consolidated Statements of Operations consists of charges
    associated with stock options, restricted stock units and the
    ESPP. Equity-based compensation expense and the related income
    tax benefit for fiscal 2006 were $216 million (or
    $0.11 per diluted share) which resulted in a
    $46 million income tax benefit.

Prior to October 31, 2005, Applied measured compensation
    expense for its employee equity-based compensation plans using
    the intrinsic value method under APB 25 and related
    interpretations. As the exercise price of all options granted
    under these plans was not below the fair market price of the
    underlying common stock on the grant date, no equity-based
    compensation cost for stock options was recognized in the
    Consolidated Statements of Operations under the intrinsic value
    method.

51

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Stock
    Options  

The exercise price of each stock option equals the market price
    of Applied s stock on the date of grant. Most options are
    scheduled to vest over four years and expire no later than seven
    years after the grant date. The fair value of each option grant
    is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option
    pricing model. This model was developed for use in estimating
    the value of publicly traded options that have no vesting
    restrictions and are fully transferable. Applied s employee
    stock options have characteristics significantly different from
    those of publicly traded options. The weighted average
    assumptions used in the model are outlined in the following
    table:

The computation of the expected volatility assumption used in
    the Black-Scholes calculations for new grants is based on a
    combination of historical and implied volatilities. When
    establishing the expected life assumption, Applied annually
    reviews historical employee exercise behavior of option grants
    with similar vesting periods.

Options outstanding had an aggregate intrinsic value of
    $317 million and $165 million at October 30, 2005
    and October 29, 2006, respectively. The weighted average
    grant date fair value of options granted during fiscal 2006 was
    $54 million. The total intrinsic value of options exercised
    during fiscal 2006 was $57 million. The total fair value of
    options that vested during fiscal 2006 was $256 million. At
    October 29, 2006, Applied had $121 million of total
    unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures,
    related to stock option plans that will be recognized over the
    weighted average period of 1.1 years. Cash received from
    stock option exercises was $284 million during fiscal 2006.
    During fiscal 2006, as part of the acquisition of Applied Films
    Corporation (Applied Films), Applied assumed outstanding options
    to purchase Applied Films common stock that, at the acquisition
    date, had a fair value of $26 million, including
    $6 million of total unrecognized compensation expense, net
    of $2 million of estimated forfeitures (see Note 13).
    The total stock options assumed by Applied were converted into
    options to purchase 3 million shares of Applied common
    stock.

Employee
    Stock Purchase Plans  

Under the ESPP, substantially all employees may purchase Applied
    common stock through payroll deductions at a price equal to
    85 percent of the lower of the fair market value at the
    beginning of the offering period or at the end of each
    applicable purchase period. The number of shares issued under
    the ESPP during the year ended October 29, 2006 was
    4,065,000. Based on the Black-Scholes option pricing model, the
    weighted average estimated fair value of purchase rights under
    the ESPP was $5.21 for the year ended October 29, 2006.
    Compensation expense is calculated using the fair value of the
    employee s purchase rights per the Black-Scholes model.
    Underlying assumptions used in the model are outlined in the
    following table:

52

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Restricted
    Stock Units  

Restricted stock units (also referred to as performance shares)
    are converted into shares of Applied common stock upon vesting
    on a
     one-for-one 
    basis. Typically, vesting of restricted stock units is subject
    to the employee s continuing service to Applied. The
    compensation expense related to these awards was determined
    using the fair value of Applied s common stock on the date
    of the grant, and compensation is recognized over the service
    period. Restricted stock units generally vest over four years.

At October 29, 2006, Applied had $204 million total
    unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures,
    related to restricted stock unit grants, which will be
    recognized over the weighted average period of 1.7 years
    (see Note 8). During fiscal 2006, as part of the
    acquisition of Applied Films, Applied assumed Applied
    Films  outstanding restricted stock awards that, at the
    acquisition date, had a fair value of $298,000, including
    $130,000 of total unrecognized equity-based compensation
    expense, net of estimated forfeitures. The Applied Films
    restricted stock awards assumed are expected to convert into
    19,000 shares of Applied common stock upon vesting.

Pro Forma
    Information under SFAS 123 for Periods Prior to Fiscal
    2006  

Prior to fiscal 2006, Applied followed the disclosure-only
    provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation  (SFAS 123), as amended. The following
    table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per
    share for fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005 if the fair value
    recognition provisions of SFAS 123, as amended, had been
    applied to options granted under Applied s equity-based
    compensation plans. For purposes of this pro forma disclosure,
    the estimated value of the options is recognized over the
    options  vesting periods. If Applied had recognized the
    expense of equity-based compensation programs in the
    Consolidated Statements of Operations, additional paid-in
    capital would have increased by a corresponding amount, net of
    applicable taxes.

For purposes of the weighted average estimated fair value
    calculations, the fair value of each stock option grant is
    estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option
    pricing model and the following assumptions:

Based on the Black-Scholes option pricing model, the weighted
    average estimated fair value of employee stock option grants was
    $10.06 for fiscal 2004 and $6.46 for fiscal 2005. The weighted
    average estimated fair value of

53

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

purchase rights granted under the ESPP was $5.91 for fiscal 2004
    and $5.65 for fiscal 2005. Beginning in the first quarter of
    fiscal 2005, the computation of the expected volatility
    assumption used in the Black-Scholes calculations for new grants
    changed from being based solely on historical volatility to
    being based on a combination of historical and implied
    volatilities.

On August 4, 2005, the Human Resources and Compensation
    Committee of the Board of Directors of Applied approved the
    vesting acceleration of certain unvested,
     out-of-the-money 
    stock options outstanding under Applied s employee stock
    option plans, effective August 5, 2005. Stock options held
    by Applied s five most senior executive officers,
    non-employee directors and consultants were not included in the
    vesting acceleration. Vesting was accelerated for stock options
    that had exercise prices greater than $17.85 per share,
    which was the closing price of Applied common stock on
    August 5, 2005. In connection with the modification of the
    terms of these options to accelerate their vesting,
    approximately $138 million was recorded as a non-cash
    compensation expense on a pro forma basis in accordance with
    SFAS 123, and this amount is included in the pro forma
    table above for the year ended October 30, 2005. This
    action was taken to reduce the impact of future compensation
    expense that Applied would otherwise be required to recognize in
    future consolidated statements of operations pursuant to
    SFAS 123(R), which was adopted by Applied beginning in the
    first quarter of fiscal 2006.

For additional information on Applied s employee benefit
    plans, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Concentrations of Credit Risk   Financial
    instruments that potentially subject Applied to significant
    concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash
    equivalents, investments, trade accounts receivable and
    derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities.
    Applied invests in a variety of financial instruments, such as,
    but not limited to, certificates of deposit, corporate and
    municipal bonds, and United States Treasury and agency
    securities, mortgage-backed securities, and, by policy, limits
    the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution
    or commercial issuer. Applied s customers consist
    principally of semiconductor and display manufacturers located
    throughout the world. Applied performs ongoing credit
    evaluations of its customers  financial condition and
    generally requires no collateral to secure accounts receivable.
    Applied maintains an allowance reserve for potentially
    uncollectible accounts receivable based on its assessment of the
    collectibility of accounts receivable. Applied regularly reviews
    the allowance by considering factors such as historical
    experience, credit quality, age of the accounts receivable
    balances, and current economic conditions that may affect a
    customer s ability to pay. In addition, Applied utilizes
    letters of credit to mitigate credit risk when considered
    appropriate. Applied is exposed to credit-related losses in the
    event of nonperformance by counterparties to derivative
    financial instruments, but does not expect any counterparties to
    fail to meet their obligations.

Earnings Per Share   Basic earnings per share is
    determined using the weighted average number of common shares
    outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is
    determined using the weighted average number of common shares
    and potential common shares (representing the dilutive effect of
    stock options, restricted stock units, ESPP shares and amounts
    due under the agreements associated with the accelerated buyback
    program) outstanding during the period. Applied s net
    income has not been adjusted for any period presented for
    purposes of computing basic or diluted earnings per share.

For purposes of computing diluted earnings per share, weighted
    average potential common shares do not include stock options
    with an exercise price that exceeded the average fair market
    value of Applied s common stock for the period, as the
    effect would be anti-dilutive. Options to purchase shares of
    common stock that were excluded from the computation were as
    follows:

54

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Dividends   Applied s Board of Directors
    declared three quarterly cash dividends in the amount of
    $0.03 per share each in fiscal 2005. During fiscal 2006,
    Applied s Board of Directors declared one quarterly cash
    dividend in the amount of $0.03 per share and three
    quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.05 per share
    each. The fourth quarterly cash dividend declared in fiscal 2006
    was payable on December 7, 2006, to stockholders of record
    as of November 16, 2006. Dividends paid during fiscal 2005
    and fiscal 2006 totaled $98 million and $251 million,
    respectively. The declaration of any future cash dividend is at
    the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on
    Applied s financial condition, results of operations,
    capital requirements, business conditions and other factors.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements   

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 158,
     Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 87, 88, 106, and 132R  (SFAS 158).
    SFAS 158 requires an entity to recognize in its statement
    of financial condition the funded status of its defined benefit
    postretirement plans, measured as the difference between the
    fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation.
    SFAS 158 also requires an entity to recognize changes in
    the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan
    within accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, to
    the extent such changes are not recognized in earnings as
    components of periodic net benefit cost. SFAS 158 is
    effective for Applied in fiscal 2007. Applied does not expect
    the implementation of this standard to have a material effect on
    Applied s financial position or results of operations.

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157,
     Fair Value  (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 defines
    fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
    expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157
    is effective for Applied in fiscal 2009. Applied is evaluating
    the potential impact of the implementation of SFAS 157 on
    its financial position and results of operations.

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued
    Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,  Considering
    the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying
    Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements 
    (SAB 108), which provides interpretive guidance on how the
    effects of the carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements
    should be considered in quantifying a current year misstatement.
    SAB 108 is effective for Applied in fiscal 2007. Applied
    does not expect the implementation of this staff accounting
    bulletin to have a material effect on Applied s financial
    position or results of operations.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation 48,
     Accounting for Income Tax Uncertainties 
    (FIN 48). FIN 48 defines the threshold for recognizing
    the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements
    as  more-likely-than-not  to be sustained by the
    taxing authority. The recently issued literature also provides
    guidance on the derecognition, measurement and classification of
    income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and
    penalties. FIN 48 also includes guidance concerning
    accounting for income tax uncertainties in interim periods and
    increases the level of disclosures associated with any recorded
    income tax uncertainties. FIN 48 will become effective for
    Applied beginning in fiscal 2008. Any differences between the
    amounts recognized in the statements of financial position prior
    to the adoption of FIN 48 and the amounts reported after
    adoption will be accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment
    recorded to the beginning balance of retained earnings. Applied
    is evaluating the potential impact of the implementation of
    FIN 48 on its financial position and results of operations.

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,
     Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial
    Instruments   an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 133 and 140  (SFAS 155). SFAS 155 amends
    SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities , and No. 140,
     Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities . SFAS 155 also
    resolves issues addressed in SFAS 133 Implementation Issue
    No. D1,  Application of Statement 133 to
    Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets .
    SFAS 155 (a) permits fair value remeasurement for any
    hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative
    that otherwise would require bifurcation, (b) clarifies
    which interest-only strips and principal-

55

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

only strips are not subject to the requirements of
    SFAS 133, (c) establishes a requirement to evaluate
    interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests
    that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial
    instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring
    bifurcation, (d) clarifies that concentrations of credit
    risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives,
    and (e) amends SFAS No. 140 to eliminate the
    prohibition on a qualifying special-purpose entity from holding
    a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial
    interest other than another derivative financial instrument.
    SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments
    acquired or issued after the beginning of Applied s 2007
    fiscal year. Applied is currently assessing the impact of
    SFAS 155, however, it does not anticipate that
    SFAS 155 will have a material impact on its financial
    position and results of operations.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
     Accounting Changes and Error Corrections   a
    Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement
    No. 3  (SFAS 154), which requires retrospective
    application to prior periods  financial statements of
    voluntary changes in accounting principle unless it is
    impracticable to do so. SFAS 154 is effective for
    accounting changes and corrections of errors beginning in fiscal
    2007. Applied does not expect the implementation of this
    standard to have a material effect on Applied s financial
    position or results of operations.

Note 2    

Financial
    Instruments  

Investments   

Investments by security type at October 29, 2006 were as
    follows:

56

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Investments by security type at October 30, 2005 were as
    follows:

Cash and cash equivalents included investments in debt and other
    securities of $608 million at October 30, 2005 and
    $75 million at October 29, 2006.

Contractual maturities of investments at October 29, 2006
    were as follows:

*  

Securities with no single maturity date include publicly traded
    equity securities, mortgage- and asset-backed securities. 

Applied regularly reviews its investment portfolio to identify
    and evaluate investments that have indications of possible
    impairment. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is
    temporary include: the length of time and extent to which fair
    market value has been lower than the cost basis, the financial
    condition and near-term prospects of the investee, credit
    quality, and Applied s ability to hold the investment for a
    period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery
    in fair market value. Generally, the contractual terms of the
    investments do not permit settlement at prices less than the
    amortized cost of the investments. Applied has determined that
    the gross unrealized losses on its investments at
    October 29, 2006 are temporary in nature. The gross
    unrealized losses related to investments are primarily due to a
    decrease in the fair market value of fixed-rate debt securities
    as a result of increases in interest rates. Accordingly, Applied
    does not consider the investments to be
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired at October 29, 2006, as it has the ability and
    intent to hold the investments for a period of time that may be
    sufficient for anticipated recovery in fair market value.

The following table provides the gross unrealized losses and the
    fair market value of Applied s investments with unrealized
    losses that are not deemed to be
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired, aggregated by investment

57

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

category and length of time that individual securities have been
    in a continuous unrealized loss position as of October 29,
    2006.

Applied manages its cash equivalents and investments as a single
    portfolio of highly marketable securities that is intended to be
    available to meet Applied s current cash requirements. For
    fiscal 2005, gross realized gains on sales of investments were
    $3 million, and gross realized losses were $8 million.
    For fiscal 2006, gross realized gains on sales of investments
    were $5 million, and gross realized losses were
    $28 million, principally attributable to the sale of
    investments to fund the accelerated stock buyback program
    discussed in Note 7.

During fiscal 2006, Applied changed its accounting method for
    certain fixed-income investments, which resulted in the
    reclassification of these investments from short-term
    investments to long-term investments. As a result, prior period
    balances have been reclassified to conform to the current
    period s presentation. This accounting method is based on
    the contractual maturity dates of fixed-income securities as
    current or long-term, while the prior classification was based
    on the nature of the securities and the availability for use in
    current operations. Applied believes this presentation method is
    preferable as it is more reflective of Applied s assessment
    of the timing of when such securities are expected to be
    converted to cash. Accordingly, certain fixed-income investments
    of $2.6 billion have been reclassified from short-term
    investments to long-term investments in the October 30,
    2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet to conform to the fiscal 2006
    financial statement presentation. In connection with this
    reclassification, short-term deferred taxes have been
    reclassified to long-term deferred taxes. There have been no
    changes in Applied s investment policies or practices
    associated with this change in accounting method.

In addition, $50 million of long-term equity securities
    previously reported in other long-term assets have been
    reclassified to long-term investments in the October 30,
    2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet to conform to the fiscal 2006
    financial statement presentation. Applied continues to classify
    auction rate securities and variable rate demand notes as
    current assets, notwithstanding the underlying contractual term
    of such investments, since the highly liquid nature of these
    investments enables them to be readily convertible to cash.

Derivative Financial Instruments   Derivative
    instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency
    exchange contracts, are recognized on the balance sheet at fair
    value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not
    qualify for hedge treatment, as well as the ineffective portion
    of any hedges, are recognized currently in earnings. All of
    Applied s derivative financial instruments are recorded at
    their fair value in other current assets or accounts payable and
    accrued expenses.

Applied conducts business in a number of foreign countries, with
    certain transactions denominated in local currencies, such as
    Japanese yen, British pound, euro and Israeli shekel. The
    purpose of Applied s foreign currency

58

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

management is to mitigate the effect of exchange rate
    fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated revenues,
    costs and eventual cash flows. The terms of currency instruments
    used for hedging purposes are generally consistent with the
    timing of the transactions being hedged.

Applied uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward
    exchange contracts and currency option contracts, to hedge
    certain forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions
    expected to occur within the next 12 months. Hedges related
    to anticipated transactions are designated and documented at the
    inception of the hedge as cash flow hedges and are evaluated for
    effectiveness quarterly. The effective portion of the gain or
    loss on these hedges is reported as a component of accumulated
    other comprehensive income/(loss) in stockholders  equity
    and is reclassified into earnings when the hedged transaction
    affects earnings. Amounts included in accumulated other
    comprehensive income/(loss) at October 29, 2006 will
    generally be reclassified into earnings within 12 months.
    Changes in the fair value of currency forward exchange and
    option contracts due to changes in time value are excluded from
    the assessment of effectiveness and are recognized in cost of
    products sold. The change in option and forward time value was
    not material for fiscal 2004, 2005 or 2006. If the transaction
    being hedged fails to occur, or if a portion of any derivative
    is ineffective, Applied promptly recognizes the gain or loss on
    the associated financial instrument in general and
    administrative expenses. The amounts recognized due to
    anticipated transactions failing to occur were not material for
    all periods presented.

Forward exchange contracts are generally used to hedge certain
    foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. These
    derivatives are not designated for hedge accounting treatment.
    Accordingly, changes in the fair value of these hedges are
    recorded promptly in earnings to offset the changes in the fair
    value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.

Derivative-related activity in accumulated other comprehensive
    income/(loss) was as follows:

Fair Value of Financial Instruments   The
    carrying amounts of Applied s financial instruments,
    including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, notes
    payable, and accounts payable and accrued expenses, approximate
    fair value due to the short maturities of these financial
    instruments. At October 30, 2005, the carrying amount of
    long-term debt was $415 million and the estimated fair
    value was $432 million. At October 29, 2006, the
    carrying amount of long-term debt was $407 million and the
    estimated fair value was $428 million. The estimated fair
    value of long-term debt is based primarily on quoted market
    prices for the same or similar issues.

59

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Note 3    

Balance
    Sheet Detail  

*  

Included in finished goods inventory is $117 million at
    October 30, 2005 and $174 million at October 29,
    2006 of newly introduced systems at customer locations where the
    sales transaction did not meet Applied s revenue
    recognition criteria, as set forth in Note 1. 

60

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Goodwill,
    Purchased Technology and Other Intangible Assets   

Details of unamortized intangible assets were as follows:

Goodwill is not amortized but reviewed for impairment annually
    during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Applied conducted
    goodwill impairment tests in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, and
    the results of these tests indicated that Applied s
    goodwill assets were not impaired. From October 30, 2005 to
    October 29, 2006, the change in goodwill was
    $234 million, due primarily to the acquisitions of Applied
    Films Corporation, a Colorado corporation (Applied Films),
    certain assets of UMS Solutions Pte. Ltd. (UMS Solutions), a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of Norelco UMS Holdings Limited, and
    ChemTrace Corporation and ChemTrace Precision Cleaning, Inc.
    (collectively, ChemTrace) and offset in part by other
    adjustments associated with previous acquisitions. Other assets
    that are not subject to amortization consist primarily of a
    trade name associated with the Metron Technology N.V.
    acquisition and is reported in the Fab Solutions segment. As of
    October 29, 2006 goodwill by reportable segment was:
    Silicon, $230 million; Display, $116 million; Fab
    Solutions, $89 million and Adjacent Technologies,
    $138 million. For additional details, see Note 13.

Details of amortized intangible assets were as follows:

Purchased technology and other intangible assets are amortized
    over their estimated useful lives of 2 to 15 years using
    the straight-line method. From October 30, 2005 to
    October 29, 2006, the change in amortized intangible assets
    was approximately $120 million, primarily due to the
    acquisitions of Applied Films, certain assets of
    UMS Solutions, and ChemTrace. Aggregate amortization
    expense was $26 million and $31 million for fiscal
    2005 and 2006, respectively. As of October 29, 2006, future
    estimated amortization expense is expected to be
    $32 million for fiscal 2007, $27 million for fiscal
    2008, $26 million for fiscal 2009, $22 million for
    fiscal 2010, $19 million for fiscal 2011, and
    $57 million thereafter. As of October 29, 2006
    amortized intangible assets by reportable segment were: Silicon,
    $25 million; Display, $57 million; Fab Solutions,
    $19 million and Adjacent Technologies, $82 million.

Note 4    

Borrowing
    Facilities  

At October 29, 2006, Applied had credit facilities for
    unsecured borrowings in various currencies of up to
    approximately $260 million. On September 14, 2006,
    Applied entered into a $100 million
     364-Day 
    Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement) with a bank. The Credit
    Agreement became effective on September 17, 2006 and

61

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

replaced a $250 million credit facility which expired on
    September 17, 2006. The Credit Agreement provides for
    borrowings (advances) not to exceed $100 million at
    interest rates keyed to one of various rates selected by Applied
    for each advance, plus, in certain cases, an applicable margin
     and/or  a
    utilization fee. The Credit Agreement also requires payment of
    certain customary fees and expenses. Any advances under the
    Credit Agreement will be unsecured. The Credit Agreement
    includes financial and other covenants with which Applied was in
    compliance at October 29, 2006. No amount was outstanding
    under the Credit Agreement at October 29, 2006. The
    remaining credit facilities of approximately $160 million
    are with Japanese banks at rates indexed to their prime
    reference rate and are denominated in Japanese yen. No amounts
    were outstanding under these Japanese credit facilities at
    October 29, 2006.

Note 5    

Long-Term
    Debt  

Long-term debt outstanding at the end of the fiscal year was as
    follows:

Applied has debt agreements that contain financial and other
    covenants. These covenants require Applied to maintain certain
    minimum financial ratios. At October 29, 2006, Applied was
    in compliance with all covenants.

Aggregate debt maturities at October 29, 2006 were:
    $203 million in fiscal 2007, $3 million in fiscal
    2008, $1 million in fiscal 2009, and $200 million
    thereafter.

Note 6    

Restructuring
    and Asset Impairments  

During fiscal 2006, Applied recognized restructuring and asset
    impairment charges of $212 million, including
    $128 million in asset impairments and $92 million in
    restructuring charges primarily associated with the closure of
    its Hayward, California facility, offset by $8 million in
    adjustments associated with realignment programs of prior years.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, Applied s Board of
    Directors approved a plan to disinvest a portion of
    Applied s real estate and facilities portfolio (the Plan).
    Properties with an estimated fair value of $56 million were
    reported as assets
     held-for-sale 
    and reclassified from property, plant and equipment on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheet. Applied recorded an asset impairment
    charge of $124 million during the first quarter of fiscal
    2006 to write down the following properties to estimated fair
    value: facilities in Narita, Japan; Chunan, Korea; Hillsboro,
    Oregon; and Danvers, Massachusetts; and 26 acres of
    unimproved land in Hillsboro, Oregon. During the third quarter
    of fiscal 2006, Applied sold the Danvers, Massachusetts facility
    for net proceeds of $16 million and recognized a gain of
    $4 million. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006,
    Applied recorded additional impairment charges on the Narita and
    Chunan facilities of $6 million and recorded a
    restructuring charge of $4 million related to environmental
    contamination of the Narita site. As part of the Plan, Applied
    also recorded a charge in the amount of $91 million for

62

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

future lease obligations that continue through fiscal 2014
    related to the closure of its leased Hayward, California
    facility. During the second, third and fourth quarter of fiscal
    2006, Applied consumed $9 million in restructuring reserves
    related to the Hayward campus in rental and operating costs. In
    the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Hayward lease obligation
    was terminated for $81 million. Applied continues to
    actively market the remaining properties.

Applied took restructuring actions in fiscal 2004 to align its
    cost structure with prevailing market conditions due to an
    industry downturn. These actions, which were necessary as a
    result of reduced business volume, decreased Applied s
    global workforce and consolidated Applied s global
    facilities. Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges
    for fiscal 2004 totaled $167 million, consisting of
    $65 million for facility consolidations, $6 million
    for severance and benefits, and $96 million for other
    costs, primarily related to fixed asset writeoffs due to
    facility consolidations. As of October 29, 2006, the
    majority of the fiscal 2004 restructuring actions have been
    completed, and restructuring reserve balances consisted
    principally of remaining lease commitments associated with
    facilities.

There were no restructuring, asset impairments or other charges
    for fiscal 2005.

Changes in restructuring reserves for fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006
    were as follows:

Note 7    

Stockholders 
    Equity  

Accumulated Other Comprehensive
    Income/(Loss)   See the Consolidated Statements of
    Stockholders  Equity for the components of comprehensive
    income. Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) consisted
    of the following components:

Stock Repurchase Program   Since March 1996,
    Applied has systematically repurchased shares of its common
    stock in the open market to partially fund its equity-based
    employee benefit and incentive plans. On September 15,
    2006, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase
    program of up to $5.0 billion in repurchases over the next
    three years, ending in September 2009. In fiscal 2005, there
    were 101,208,000 shares

63

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

repurchased at an average price of $16.80 per share. In
    fiscal 2006, there were 238,397,000 shares repurchased at
    an average price of $17.35 per share.

On September 18, 2006, Applied entered into accelerated
    stock buyback agreements with Goldman, Sachs & Co.
    (Goldman Sachs) under which Applied agreed to purchase from
    Goldman Sachs shares of Applied outstanding common stock for an
    initial purchase price of $2.5 billion. Under the
    agreements, Applied purchased from Goldman Sachs
    145 million shares of Applied s common stock on
    September 18, 2006 at a price per share of $17.20, and
    Goldman Sachs agreed to purchase an equivalent number of shares
    in the open market over the following four months. At the end of
    the four month period, Applied is entitled or subject to a price
    adjustment with Goldman Sachs based upon the volume weighted
    average price of Applied common stock during the purchase
    period. The price adjustment, if any, may be settled, at
    Applied s option, in cash or shares of its common stock.
    The repurchase was funded with Applied s existing cash and
    investments. The repurchased shares were reported as treasury
    stock.

Dividends   Applied s Board of Directors
    declared three quarterly cash dividends in the amount of
    $0.03 per share each in fiscal 2005. During fiscal 2006,
    Applied s Board of Directors declared one quarterly cash
    dividend in the amount of $0.03 per share and three
    quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.05 per share
    each. The fourth quarterly cash dividend declared in fiscal 2006
    was paid on December 7, 2006 to stockholders of record as
    of November 16, 2006. Dividends paid during fiscal 2005 and
    fiscal 2006 amounted to $98 million and $251 million,
    respectively. The declaration of any future cash dividend is at
    the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on
    Applied s financial condition, results of operations,
    capital requirements, business conditions and other factors as
    well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best
    interest of stockholders.

Note 8    

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

Stock Options   Applied grants options to
    employees and non-employee directors to purchase shares of its
    common stock, at future dates, at the fair market value on the
    date of grant. Most options are scheduled to vest over four
    years, and expire no later than seven years from the grant date.
    There were 133,878,000 shares available for grant at
    October 31, 2004; 138,377,000 shares available for
    grant at October 30, 2005, and 144,582,000 shares
    available for grant at October 29, 2006. Stock option
    activity was as follows:

64

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

The following table summarizes information with respect to
    options outstanding and exercisable at October 29, 2006:

Restricted Stock Units   Applied grants
    restricted stock units (referred to as performance shares under
    the Applied Materials, Inc. Employee Stock Incentive Plan).
    Restricted stock units generally vest over one to four years,
    subject to continued service to Applied on each vesting date.

A summary of the changes in restricted stock units outstanding
    under Applied s equity compensation plans during fiscal
    2006 is presented below:

Employees Stock Purchase Plan   Applied sponsors
    two Employee Stock Purchase Plans (collectively, ESPP) for the
    benefit of United States (U.S.) and international employees,
    respectively. The U.S. plan is qualified under
    Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the ESPP,
    substantially all employees may purchase Applied common stock
    through payroll deductions at a price equal to 85 percent
    of the lower of the fair market value at the beginning of the
    offering period or at the end of each applicable purchase
    period. Beginning in December 2002, Applied amended the ESPP to
    extend the offering period from 6 months to 24 months,
    composed of four six-month purchase periods. ESPP contributions
    are limited to a maximum of 10 percent of an
    employee s eligible compensation, up to a maximum of
    $6,500 per six-month purchase period. ESPP participants are
    also limited to purchasing a maximum of 1,000 shares per
    purchase period. Shares issued under the ESPP were 5,308,000 for
    fiscal 2004, 4,879,000 for fiscal 2005, and 4,065,000 for fiscal
    2006. At October 29, 2006, there were
    10,669,000 shares reserved for future issuance under the
    ESPP.

65

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Equity-Based
    Compensation     See
    Note 1.

Employee Bonus Plans   Applied has various
    employee bonus plans. A profit-sharing plan provides for the
    distribution of a percentage of pre-tax profits to substantially
    all Applied employees not eligible for other performance-based
    incentive plans, up to a maximum percentage of compensation.
    Other plans award annual bonuses to Applied s executives
    and key contributors based on the achievement of profitability
    and other specific performance criteria. Applied also has
    agreements with key technical employees that provide for
    additional compensation related to the success of new product
    development and achievement of specified profitability criteria.
    Charges to expense under these plans were $309 million for
    fiscal 2004, $138 million for fiscal 2005 and
    $262 million for fiscal 2006.

Employee Savings and Retirement
    Plan   Applied s Employee Savings and
    Retirement Plan is qualified under Sections 401(a) and
    (k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Applied contributes a
    percentage of each participating employee s salary deferral
    contributions. These matching contributions generally become
    20 percent vested at the end of an employee s second
    year of service with Applied, and vest 20 percent per year
    of service thereafter and become fully vested at the end of six
    years of service. Each participant may elect to have the Company
    matching contributions invested in any of the diversified
    investment funds available under the plan or in Applied common
    stock. Applied s matching contributions under this plan
    were approximately $17 million, net of $8 million in
    forfeitures, for fiscal 2004 $25 million, net of
    $1 million in forfeitures, for fiscal 2005 and
    $27 million, net of $2 million in forfeitures, for
    fiscal 2006.

Defined Benefit Pension Plans of Foreign
    Subsidiaries   Several of Applied s foreign
    subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans covering
    substantially all of their eligible employees. Benefits under
    these plans are typically based on years of service and final
    average compensation levels. Applied uses August 31 as a
    measurement date. The plans are managed in accordance with
    applicable local statutes and practices. Applied deposits funds
    for certain of these plans with insurance companies, pension
    trustees, government-managed accounts,
     and/or 
    accrues the expense for the unfunded portion of the benefit
    obligation on its consolidated financial statements. Where
    appropriate, the pension plans retain professional investment
    managers that invest plan assets in equity securities, fixed
    income securities, cash and other institutional investments.
    Applied s practice is to fund the various pension plans in
    amounts sufficient to meet the minimum requirements as
    established by applicable local governmental oversight and
    taxing authorities. Depending on the design of the plan, local
    custom and market circumstances, the liabilities of a plan may
    exceed qualified plan assets. The differences between the
    aggregate accumulated benefit obligations and aggregate plan
    assets of these plans have been recorded as liabilities by
    Applied and are included in accrued expenses and other
    liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

66

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

A summary of the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets
    for fiscal 2005 and 2006 is presented below.

67

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Applied s investment strategy for its defined benefit plans
    is to invest assets in a prudent manner, maintaining
    well-diversified portfolios with the long-term objective of
    meeting the obligations of the plans as they come due. Asset
    allocation decisions are typically made by plan fiduciaries with
    input from Applied s pension committee. Applied s
    asset allocation strategy incorporates a sufficient equity
    exposure in order for the plans to benefit from the expected
    long-term outperformance of equities relative to the plans 
    liabilities. Applied retains investment managers, where
    appropriate, to manage the assets of the plans. Performance of
    investment managers is monitored by plan fiduciaries with the
    assistance of local investment consultants. The investment
    managers make investment decisions within the guidelines set
    forth by plan fiduciaries. Risk management practices include
    diversification across asset classes and investment styles, and
    periodic rebalancing toward target asset allocation ranges.
    Investment managers may use derivative instruments for efficient
    portfolio management purposes. Plan assets do not include any of
    Applied s own equity or debt securities.

A summary of the components of net periodic pension costs and
    the weighted average assumptions used for net periodic pension
    cost and benefit obligation calculations for fiscal 2004, 2005
    and 2006 is presented below.

Asset return assumptions are derived based on actuarial and
    statistical methodologies, from analysis of long-term historical
    data relevant to the country in which each plan is in effect and
    the investments applicable to the corresponding plan. The
    discount rate for each plan was derived by reference to
    appropriate benchmark yields on high quality corporate bonds,
    allowing for the approximate duration of both plan obligations
    and the relevant benchmark index.

Future expected benefit payments over the next ten fiscal years
    are: $5 million in fiscal 2007, $5 million in fiscal
    2008, $6 million in fiscal 2009, $7 million in fiscal
    2010, $7 million in fiscal 2011, and $42 million
    collectively for fiscal years 2012 through 2016. Company
    contributions to these plans for fiscal 2007 are expected to be
    approximately $8 million.

Executive Deferred Compensation Plans   Applied
    sponsors two unfunded deferred compensation plans, the Executive
    Deferred Compensation Plan (Predecessor EDCP) and the 2005
    Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 EDCP), under which
    certain employees may elect to defer a portion of their
    following year s eligible earnings. The Predecessor EDCP
    was frozen as of December 31, 2004 such that no new
    deferrals could be made under the plan after that date and the
    plan would qualify for  grandfather  relief under
    Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The Predecessor
    EDCP participant accounts continue to be maintained under the
    plan and credited with deemed interest. The 2005 EDCP was
    adopted by Applied effective as of January 1, 2005 and is
    intended to

68

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A. Amounts
    payable, including accrued deemed interest, totaled
    $83 million at October 30, 2005 and $79 million
    at October 29, 2006, which were included in other long-term
    liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Post-Retirement Benefits   On January 1,
    1999, Applied adopted a plan that provides certain medical and
    vision benefits to eligible retirees who are at least
    age 55 and who have at least 10 years of service at
    their date of retirement. An eligible retiree may elect coverage
    for an eligible spouse or domestic partner who is not eligible
    for Medicare. Coverage under the plan generally ends for both
    the retiree and spouse or domestic partner upon becoming
    eligible for Medicare. This plan has not had, and is not
    expected to have, a material effect on Applied s
    consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Note 9    

Income
    Taxes  

The components of income from operations before income taxes
    were as follows:

The components of the provision for income taxes were as follows:

69

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

A reconciliation between the statutory U.S. federal income
    tax rate of 35 percent and Applied s actual effective
    income tax provision rate is as follows:

The 2006 reconciling items included benefits of $61 million
    principally related to the favorable resolution from audits of
    prior years  income tax filings, partially offset by a
    $17 million charge from the expensing of equity-based
    compensation.

The 2005 reconciling items included benefits of
    $118 million due to a favorable resolution of audits of
    prior years  income tax filings and $14 million
    relating to a change in estimate with respect to export
    benefits, partially offset by a charge of $32 million
    relating to the distribution of foreign earnings under the
    American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
    differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
    liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts
    used for income tax purposes. The components of deferred income
    tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

70

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

The following table presents the breakdown between current and
    non-current net deferred tax assets:

U.S. income taxes have not been provided for approximately
    $217 million of cumulative undistributed earnings of
    several
     non-U.S. subsidiaries. 
    Applied intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely in
    operations outside of the U.S.

As of October 29, 2006, Applied s net operating loss
    and state tax credit carryforwards for tax return purposes were
    $64 million. The carry forwards have an indefinite life.
    Management believes that tax credit carryforwards will be
    utilized in future periods.

Applied s income taxes payable have been reduced by the tax
    benefits associated with employee stock option transactions.
    These benefits, credited directly to stockholders  equity,
    amounted to $84 million for fiscal 2005 and
    $24 million for fiscal 2006, with a corresponding reduction
    to taxes payable of $84 million in fiscal 2005 and
    $24 million in fiscal 2006.

The Internal Revenue Service has completed its field examination
    of Applied s federal income tax returns for fiscal years
    2002 through 2004 and has issued a preliminary report.
    Management believes that adequate amounts have been accrued for
    adjustments resulting from the examination.

Note 10    

Industry
    Segment and Geographic Operations  

After the acquisition of Applied Films, Applied made certain
    changes to its internal financial reporting structure during the
    fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and, as a result, is reporting
    four segments: Silicon, Fab Solutions, Display, and Adjacent
    Technologies. Applied s chief operating decision-maker has
    been identified as the President and CEO, who reviews operating
    results to make decisions about allocating resources and
    assessing performance for the entire Company. Segment
    information is presented based upon Applied s management
    organization structure as of October 29, 2006 and the
    distinctive nature of each segment. Future changes to this
    internal financial structure may result in changes to the
    reportable segments disclosed. Prior to the fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2006, Applied operated in one reportable segment.

Each reportable segment is separately managed and has separate
    financial results that are reviewed by Applied s chief
    operating decision-maker. Each reportable segment contains
    closely related products that are unique to the particular
    segment. Segment operating income is determined based upon
    internal performance measures used by the President and CEO.

Applied derives the segment results directly from its internal
    management reporting system. The accounting policies Applied
    uses to derive reportable segment results are substantially the
    same as those the consolidated Company uses. Management measures
    the performance of each reportable segment based upon several
    metrics including orders, net sales and operating income.
    Management uses these results to evaluate the performance of,
    and to assign resources to, each of the reportable segments.
    Applied does not allocate to its reportable segments certain
    operating expenses, which it manages separately at the corporate
    level. These unallocated costs include equity-based
    compensation, regional marketing and sales, corporate functions
    (certain management, finance, legal, human resources and
    RD&E costs) and unabsorbed information technology and
    occupancy costs. In addition, Applied does not allocate to its
    reportable segments restructuring and asset impairment charges
    and any associated adjustments related to restructuring actions.

71

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Segment operating income excludes interest income/expense and
    other financial charges and income taxes according to how a
    particular reportable segment s management is measured.

The Silicon segment comprises a wide range of semiconductor
    manufacturing equipment that customers use to perform most of
    the steps in the chip fabrication process, including: atomic
    layer deposition, chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor
    deposition, electrochemical plating, etch, ion implantation,
    rapid thermal processing, chemical mechanical planarization,
    wafer wet cleaning, and wafer metrology and inspection.

The Fab Solutions segment offers a broad range of products and
    services designed to improve the performance and productivity of
    semiconductor manufacturers  fab operations.

The Display segment manufactures, sells and services equipment
    used to fabricate and test flat panel displays (FPD) for
    televisions, computer displays and other applications. With the
    acquisition of Applied Films, the Display segment expanded into
    equipment to manufacture color filters for flat panel displays.

The Adjacent Technologies segment manufactures, sells and
    services equipment used to fabricate solar photovoltaic cells,
    flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass.

Prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the
    fiscal 2006 presentation.

Information for each reportable segment as of October 31,
    2004, October 30, 2005 and October 29, 2006 and for
    the years then ended, is as follows:

72

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

The reconciliation of segment operating results to Applied
    consolidated totals for the fiscal years ending October 31,
    2004, October 30, 2005 and October 29, 2006 is as
    follows:

The reconciliation of depreciation and amortization expense to
    Applied consolidated totals for the fiscal years ending
    October 31, 2004, October 30, 2005 and
    October 29, 2006 is as follows:

The reconciliation of capital expenditures to Applied
    consolidated totals for the fiscal years ending October 31,
    2004, October 30, 2005 and October 29, 2006 is as
    follows:

The reconciliation of segment assets to Applied consolidated
    totals as of October 31, 2004 October 30, 2005
    and October 29, 2006 is as follows:

73

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

For geographical reporting, revenues are attributed to the
    geographic location in which the customers  facilities are
    located. Long-lived assets consist primarily of property, plant
    and equipment and equity-method investment, and are attributed
    to the geographic location in which they are located. Net sales
    and long-lived assets by geographic region were as follows:

(1)  

Primarily the United States. 

(2)  

Includes China. 

During fiscal 2004, no individual customer accounted for
    10 percent of Applied s net sales. Samsung Electronics
    Co., Ltd. accounted for 10 percent of Applied s net
    sales in 2005 and 11 percent of Applied s net sales in
    2006. These net sales were for products in multiple reportable
    segments.

74

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Note 11    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

Leases   

Applied leases some of its facilities and equipment under
    non-cancelable operating leases and has options to renew most
    leases, with rentals to be negotiated. Total rent expense was
    $88 million for fiscal 2004, $87 million for fiscal
    2005, and $70 million for fiscal 2006. Future minimum lease
    payments at October 29, 2006 totaled $173 million and
    were: $60 million for fiscal 2007; $41 million for
    fiscal 2008; $31 million for fiscal 2009; $17 million
    for fiscal 2010; $8 million for fiscal 2011; and
    $16 million collectively for all periods thereafter.

Accounts
    Receivables Sales   

Applied has agreements with various financial institutions to
    sell accounts receivable from selected customers. Applied also
    discounts letters of credit through various financial
    institutions. Under these agreements, Applied sold accounts
    receivable and discounted letters of credit in the amounts of
    $859 million for fiscal 2004, $158 million for fiscal
    2005 and $245 million for fiscal 2006. Discounting fees
    were not material for all periods presented. At October 29,
    2006, the amount of sold accounts receivable remained
    outstanding under these agreements was immaterial. A portion of
    these sold accounts receivable is subject to certain recourse
    provisions. Applied has not experienced any losses under these
    recourse provisions.

Guarantees   

Applied products are generally sold with a
     12-month 
    warranty period following installation. The provision for the
    estimated cost of warranty is recorded when revenue is
    recognized. Parts and labor are covered under the terms of the
    warranty agreement. The warranty provision is based on
    historical experience by product, configuration and geographic
    region.

Changes in the warranty reserves were as follows:

As noted above, Applied s products are generally sold with
    a  12-month 
    warranty. Accordingly, current warranty provisions are related
    to the current year s net sales, and warranty consumption
    is associated with current and prior year s net sales.

During the ordinary course of business, Applied also provides
    standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to
    certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated
    by either Applied or its subsidiaries. As of October 29,
    2006, the maximum potential amount of future payments that
    Applied could be required to make under these guarantee
    agreements was approximately $114 million. Applied has not
    recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee
    arrangements beyond that required to appropriately account for
    the underlying transaction being guaranteed. Applied does not
    believe, based on historical experience and information
    currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will
    be required to be paid under these guarantee arrangements.

Applied also has agreements with various banks to facilitate
    subsidiary banking operations worldwide, including overdraft
    arrangements, issuance of bank guarantees, and letters of
    credit. As of October 29, 2006, Applied Materials Inc. has
    provided parent guarantees to banks for approximately
    $91 million to cover these services.

75

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Legal
    Matters   

On July 31, 2001, David Scharf, an individual, filed a
    lawsuit against Applied alleging that Applied has infringed, has
    induced others to infringe, and has contributed to others 
    infringement of, a patent concerning color synthesizing scanning
    electron microscope technology. Mr. Scharf seeks a
    preliminary and permanent injunction, a finding of willful
    infringement, damages (including treble damages), and costs.
    Applied has answered the complaint and counterclaimed for
    declaratory judgment of non-infringement and invalidity. On
    May 10, 2002, Mr. Scharf filed a request for
    re-examination of his patent with the Patent and Trademark
    Office (PTO). On June 26, 2002, the case was removed from
    the Court s active docket after the parties stipulated to
    stay the case pending the results of that re-examination. On
    July 11, 2002, Applied filed its own request for
    re-examination of Mr. Scharf s patent with the Patent
    and Trademark Office. Applied s request for re-examination
    was granted on September 19, 2002. On April 23, 2004,
    the PTO notified Applied that it intended to issue a
    re-examination certificate. On June 14, 2004, Applied filed
    a second request for re-examination of Mr. Scharf s
    patent with the PTO. The second request was denied on
    September 1, 2004. On October 1, 2004, Applied filed a
    petition for reconsideration of that denial, which subsequently
    was denied. The parties are engaged in discovery and on
    November 6, 2006, the Court heard opposing motions for
    summary judgment on the issue of infringement and claim
    construction. The Court has not yet ruled on these motions.
    Applied believes it has meritorious defenses and counterclaims
    and intends to pursue them vigorously.

On March 12, 2002, Linear Technology Corp. (LTC) filed a
    lawsuit against Applied in the Superior Court of the County of
    Santa Clara, California, alleging claims for breach of
    contract, fraud and deceit, negligent misrepresentation,
    suppression of fact, unfair competition, breach of warranty,
    express contractual indemnity, implied equitable indemnity and
    declaratory relief related to LTC s assertion that Applied
    is obligated to indemnify and defend LTC for certain claims in
    an underlying patent infringement lawsuit brought by Texas
    Instruments, Inc. After the Court dismissed many of its claims,
    LTC amended its complaint. LTC s Amended Complaint, as well
    as its Second, Third and Fourth Amended Complaints, were
    dismissed by the Court in whole or in part. On July 7,
    2004, LTC filed a Fifth Amended Complaint, which the Court
    dismissed with prejudice on October 5, 2004. On
    January 11, 2005, LTC filed a notice of appeal of the
    dismissal of its complaint. Applied believes it has meritorious
    defenses and intends to pursue them vigorously.

On December 24, 2003, Applied filed a lawsuit against
    Jusung Engineering Co., Ltd. (Jusung Engineering) and Jusung
    Pacific Co., Ltd. (Jusung Pacific, referred to together with
    Jusung Engineering as Jusung) in Tao-Yuan District Court in
    Taiwan, captioned Applied Materials, Inc. v. Jusung
    Engineering Co., Ltd. The lawsuit alleges that Jusung is
    infringing a patent related to chemical vapor deposition owned
    by Applied. In the lawsuit, Applied seeks a provisional
    injunction prohibiting Jusung from importing, using,
    manufacturing, servicing or selling in Taiwan certain flat panel
    display manufacturing equipment. On December 25, 2003, the
    Tao-Yuan District Court ruled in favor of Applied s request
    for a provisional injunction and, on January 14, 2004, the
    Court issued a provisional injunction order against Jusung
    Pacific. Jusung Pacific appealed those decisions, and the
    decisions were affirmed on appeal. On January 30, 2004,
    Jusung Pacific requested permission to post a counterbond to
    have the Jusung Pacific injunction lifted. Jusung Pacific s
    counterbond request was granted and, on March 30, 2004, the
    provisional injunction order was lifted. At Applied s
    request, on December 11, 2004, the District Court issued a
    provisional injunction order against Jusung Engineering. Jusung
    Engineering appealed that order, and the order was affirmed on
    appeal. Jusung Engineering also requested permission to post a
    counterbond to have the Jusung Engineering injunction lifted.
    Jusung Engineering s counterbond request was granted, and,
    on April 25, 2005, the provisional injunction order against
    Jusung Engineering was lifted. Applied has appealed both
    counterbond decisions. On June 30, 2004, Applied filed a
     main action  patent infringement complaint against
    Jusung in the Hsinchu District Court in Taiwan, captioned
    Applied Materials, Inc. v. Jusung Engineering Co., Ltd. In
    the lawsuit, Applied seeks damages and a permanent injunction
    for infringement of the same patent. The decisions regarding the
    provisional injunction and counterbond have no effect on the
    separate patent infringement lawsuit filed by Applied against
    Jusung in the Hsinchu Court. In August 2006, the Court set the
    litigation fee and the litigation security payment, and the main
    action is now proceeding on its merits. The Court held a second
    hearing in the main action on October 30,

76

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

2006. This same patent is the subject of an invalidity
    proceeding filed in the Taiwanese Patent and Trademark Office by
    Jusung Pacific in June 2004. Applied believes it has meritorious
    claims and intends to pursue them vigorously.

On June 13, 2006, Applied filed an action in the Taiwanese
    Patent and Trademark Office challenging the validity of a patent
    owned by Jusung Engineering related to the severability of the
    transfer chamber. On June 20, 2006, Jusung Engineering
    filed a lawsuit against Applied and Applied s subsidiary,
    AKT, in Hsinchu District Court in Taiwan, captioned Jusung
    Engineering, Co. Ltd. v. AKT America, Inc. and Applied
    Materials, Inc., alleging infringement of this patent. Jusung
    Engineering s lawsuit seeks damages, costs and
    attorneys  fees, but does not seek injunctive relief. The
    Court has scheduled the first hearing in this matter for
    December 28, 2006. Applied believes that it has meritorious
    defenses that it intends to pursue vigorously.

On April 10, 2004, the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission (TFTC)
    notified Applied s subsidiary AKT that, pursuant to a
    complaint filed by Jusung, the TFTC had begun an investigation
    into whether AKT had violated the Taiwan Fair Trade Act. The
    investigation focuses on whether AKT violated the Taiwan
    Guidelines for the Review of Cases Involving Enterprises Issuing
    Warning Letters for Infringement on Copyright, Trademark and
    Patent Rights by allegedly notifying customers about AKT s
    patent rights and the infringement of those rights by Jusung. On
    June 15, 2004, the TFTC notified Applied that Applied also
    was the subject of the investigation. By letter dated
    April 15, 2005, the TFTC notified Applied and AKT that
    there was insufficient evidence to support a claim against
    either company. Jusung appealed the TFTC s decision, and
    the appeals court affirmed the decision of the TFTC in favor of
    Applied on February 7, 2006. Jusung has appealed the
    appeals court s affirmation of the decision of the TFTC.

On January 19, 2006, five companies that sell refurbished
    Applied tools (Silicon Services Consortium Inc., Semiconductor
    Support Services Co., OEM Surplus, Inc., Precision Technician
    Inc., and Semiconductor Equipment Specialist, Inc.) filed a
    lawsuit against Applied in the United States District Court for
    the Western District of Texas, captioned Silicon Services
    Consortium, Inc., et al. v. Applied Materials, Inc.
    The plaintiffs claim that a policy that Applied announced in
    January 2005 of limiting the sale of certain parts to them
    constituted an unlawful attempt to monopolize the refurbishment
    business, an interference with existing contracts, and an
    interference with prospective business relationships. The suit
    seeks injunctive relief, damages, costs and attorneys 
    fees. After Applied filed a motion to dismiss the original
    complaint, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint alleging
    similar conduct. Applied filed a motion to dismiss the amended
    complaint on April 7, 2006, and a hearing before the Court
    was conducted on August 22, 2006. The Court has not yet
    ruled on these motions. Applied believes it has meritorious
    defenses and counterclaims and intends to pursue them vigorously.

Applied does not believe that the outcome of any of the above
    matters will have a material adverse effect on its financial
    condition or results of operations. From time to time, Applied
    receives notification from third parties, including customers
    and suppliers, seeking indemnification, litigation support,
    payment of money or other actions by Applied in connection with
    claims made against them. In addition, from time to time,
    Applied receives notification from third parties claiming that
    Applied may be or is infringing their intellectual property or
    other rights. Applied also is subject to various other legal
    proceedings and claims, both asserted and unasserted, that arise
    in the ordinary course of business. Although the outcome of
    these claims and proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty,
    Applied does not believe that any of these other existing
    proceedings or claims will have a material adverse effect on its
    consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Note 12    

Litigation
    Settlements, Net  

Net litigation settlement expense of $27 million reported
    in the fiscal 2004 Consolidated Statement of Operations
    consisted of costs of $28 million related to the two patent
    litigation settlements with Varian Semiconductor Equipment
    Associates, Inc. and Novellus Systems, Inc., net of a gain of
    $1 million related to a legal settlement in favor of
    Applied. During fiscal 2005 or 2006, there were no material
    litigation settlements.

77

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

Note 13    

Business
    Combinations and Equity-Method Investment  

On August 14, 2006, Applied s wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Metron Technology, Inc. (Metron), purchased certain assets of
    UMS Solutions  parts cleaning and recycling business in
    Singapore for $10 million. The acquisition enhances
    Metron s capabilities in Southeast Asia with advanced,
    high-quality parts cleaning services to support its
    customers  semiconductor manufacturing requirements. In
    connection with this acquisition, Applied recorded goodwill of
    $7 million and other intangible assets of $1 million.

On July 20, 2006, Applied and Screen completed the
    formation of Sokudo, a Japanese joint venture company, to
    deliver advanced track solutions for customers  critical
    semiconductor manufacturing requirements. Screen owns
    52 percent and holds the controlling interest in Sokudo,
    and Applied owns 48 percent. Screen transferred into Sokudo
    its existing track business and related intellectual property,
    including employees, products and its installed base of systems.
    Applied paid $147 million for its investment in Sokudo.
    Additionally, Applied contributed to Sokudo certain technology
    and related intellectual property and will provide key
    development employees. Screen performs manufacturing for Sokudo
    under an outsourcing agreement. Applied accounts for its
    interest in Sokudo under the equity method of accounting. Under
    this accounting method, Applied s exposure to loss from
    ongoing operations is limited to $144 million as of
    October 29, 2006, which represents Applied s carrying
    value of its investment in Sokudo. Applied s investment in
    Sokudo is classified as an equity-method investment on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheet. Applied s investment in Sokudo
    includes the unamortized excess of Applied s investment
    over its equity in the joint venture s net assets. This
    excess $41 million at October 29, 2006 is being
    amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic
    useful life of 7 years.

On July 7, 2006, Applied completed its acquisition of
    Applied Films Corporation, a Colorado corporation (Applied
    Films) and leading supplier of thin film deposition equipment
    used in manufacturing flat panel displays (FPDs), solar cells,
    flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass. Applied paid
    $28.50 per share in cash for each outstanding share of
    Applied Films. The total purchase price was approximately
    $484 million, or $328 million net of Applied
    Films  existing cash and marketable securities. As part of
    the acquisition, Applied assumed Applied Films  outstanding
    stock options and restricted stock awards that, at the
    acquisition date, had a total fair value of $26 million, of
    which $18 million was allocated to the purchase price and
    the remainder to unearned compensation. Upon the acquisition and
    subject to vesting, Applied Films stock options became
    exercisable for shares of Applied common stock and Applied Films
    restricted stock awards became payable in shares of Applied
    common stock totaling, in the aggregate, 3 million shares
    of Applied common stock. The fair value of Applied Films 
    stock options assumed was determined using a Black-Scholes
    model. The use of the Black-Scholes model and method of
    determining the variables is consistent with Applied s
    valuation of equity-based compensation awards in accordance with
    SFAS 123(R) (see Note 1). Applied recorded an
    in-process research and development expense of $14 million,
    reported as research, development and engineering expense in the
    Consolidated Statements of Operations; goodwill of
    $226 million; and other intangible assets of
    $140 million. The acquired in-process research and
    development expense was determined by identifying research
    projects for which technological feasibility had not been
    established and no alternative future use existed. The value of
    the projects identified as in-process was determined by
    estimating the future cash flows from the projects once
    commercially feasible, discounting the net cash flows back to
    their present value at a rate commensurate with the level of
    risk and maturity of the projects, and then applying a
    percentage of completion to the calculated value.

On December 23, 2005, Applied acquired all of the
    outstanding shares of ChemTrace Corporation and ChemTrace
    Precision Cleaning, Inc. (collectively, ChemTrace) for
    approximately $22 million in cash, net of cash acquired, of
    which $18 million was paid upon closing. ChemTrace provides
    customers with precision parts cleaning and materials testing
    solutions. In connection with this acquisition, Applied recorded
    goodwill of $12 million and other intangible assets of
    $8 million.

On June 28, 2005, Applied purchased certain assets of SCP
    Global Technology, Inc., consisting of single-wafer HF-last
    immersion technology and Marangoni clean/dry intellectual
    property, for approximately $24 million in cash. In
    connection with this asset purchase, Applied recorded purchased
    technology and other intangible assets of $20 million and
    other items of $4 million.

78

Table of Contents   

APPLIED
    MATERIALS, INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
    (Continued)  

On December 16, 2004, Applied acquired the assets of ATMI,
    Inc. s Treatment Systems business (EcoSys), which supported
    the gas abatement requirements of process equipment for
    integrated circuit manufacturing and other industrial
    applications, for approximately $16 million in cash. In
    connection with this acquisition, Applied recorded goodwill of
    $5 million, purchased technology and other intangible
    assets of $8 million and other items of $3 million,
    including liabilities assumed upon acquisition.

On December 14, 2004, Applied acquired substantially all of
    the operating subsidiaries and businesses of Metron Technology
    N.V., a provider of a range of products and services for
    fab-wide operations, for approximately $85 million in cash.
    In connection with this acquisition, Applied recorded goodwill
    of $76 million and other intangible assets of
    $31 million, partially offset by other items of
    $22 million, primarily for net liabilities assumed upon
    acquisition.

On June 14, 2004, Applied acquired Torrex Equipment
    Corporation, a developer of a multi-wafer system that utilizes
    chemical vapor deposition and atomic layer deposition processes
    to address front-end semiconductor manufacturing applications,
    for $7 million in cash. In connection with this
    acquisition, Applied recorded goodwill of $11 million, net
    of adjustments to the initial purchase price allocation,
    partially offset by other items of $4 million, primarily
    for net liabilities assumed upon acquisition. The in-process
    research and development expense related to this transaction was
    $5.8 million.

For all of the purchase business combinations discussed above,
    the results of operations prior to the acquisition dates were
    not material in relation to those of Applied for any of the
    periods presented herein. Goodwill is not amortized but is
    reviewed periodically for impairment and purchased technology is
    amortized over its useful life of 2 to 15 years.

Note 14    

Subsequent
    Event  

On November 6, 2006 Applied announced that it had entered
    into an agreement to purchase the assets of Brooks Software, a
    division of Brooks Automation, Inc., for $125 million in
    cash. Brooks Software is a leading provider of factory
    management and control software to the semiconductor and flat
    panel display industries. Brooks Software s products
    complement Applied s  existing software applications
    and are expected to enable Applied to offer customers a
    comprehensive computer integrated manufacturing
    (CIM) solution for optimizing fab operations. After the
    closing of this transaction, the Brooks Software business and
    employees will be integrated within the Applied Global Services
    organization and reported under the Fab Solutions segment.
    Completion of this acquisition is expected in the second quarter
    of fiscal 2007 and is subject to receipt of regulatory approvals
    and certain other closing conditions.

Note 15    

Unaudited
    Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data  

79

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Stockholders and Board of Directors 
    Applied Materials, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Applied Materials, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of
    October 29, 2006 and October 30, 2005, and the related
    consolidated statements of operations, stockholders 
    equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
    period ended October 29, 2006. In connection with our
    audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have
    audited the financial statement schedule as of and for each of
    the years in the three-year period ended October 29, 2006,
    listed at Item 15(a)(2). These consolidated financial
    statements and financial statement schedule are the
    responsibility of the Company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
    financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
    our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
    to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
    position of Applied Materials, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
    October 29, 2006 and October 30, 2005, and the results
    of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years
    in the three-year period ended October 29, 2006, in
    conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
    statement schedule as of and for each of the years in the three
    year period ended October 29, 2006, when considered in
    relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
    a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
    information set forth therein.

As discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, effective October 31, 2005 the Company adopted
    the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment , applying the
    modified-prospective method.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    effectiveness of Applied Materials, Inc. s internal control
    over financial reporting as of October 29, 2006, based on
    criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report
    dated December 14, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on
    management s assessment of, and the effective operation of,
    internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   KPMG
    LLP 

KPMG LLP

Mountain View, California

December 14, 2006

80

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

These Exhibits are numbered in accordance with the
    Exhibit Table of Item 601 of
     Regulation S-K: 

81

Table of Contents   

82

Table of Contents   

*  

Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or
    arrangement, as required by Item 15(a)3. 

**  

Certain schedules and exhibits to this agreement, as set forth
    in the Table of Contents of the agreement, have been omitted.
    Applied Materials, Inc. hereby undertakes to furnish
    supplementally copies of any of the omitted schedules and
    exhibits upon request by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

83

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.

By: 

/s/   MICHAEL
    R. SPLINTER 

Michael R. Splinter

President, Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: December 14, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Title 

Date 

/s/   MICHAEL
    R. SPLINTER  

Michael
    R. Splinter

President, Chief Executive Officer
    and Director (Principal Executive Officer)

December 14, 2006

/s/   GEORGE
    S. DAVIS  

George
    S. Davis

Senior Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

December 14, 2006

/s/   YVONNE
    WEATHERFORD  

Yvonne
    Weatherford

Corporate Vice President,
    Corporate Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)

December 14, 2006

Directors:

* 

James
    C. Morgan

Chairman of the Board

December 14, 2006

* 

Michael
    H. Armacost

Director

December 14, 2006

* 

Robert
    H. Brust

Director

December 14, 2006

Deborah
    A. Coleman

Director

December 14, 2006

* 

Philip
    V. Gerdine

Director

December 14, 2006

* 

Thomas
    J. Iannotti

Director

December 14, 2006

* 

Charles
    Y.S. Liu

Director

December 14, 2006

84

Table of Contents   

Title 

Date 

* 

Gerhard
    H. Parker

Director

December 14, 2006

* 

Willem
    P. Roelandts

Director

December 14, 2006

Representing a majority of the
    members of the Board of Directors.

*By  /s/   MICHAEL
    R. SPLINTER  
  
       Michael
    R.
     SplinterAttorney-in-Fact 
    **

**  

By authority of the power of attorney filed herewith. 

85

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE II 

VALUATION
    AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

ALLOWANCE
    FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS  

86

<EX-10.36>
 2
 f25754exv10w36.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.36

exv10w36 

Exhibit 10.36 

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.

AMENDED AND RESTATED

EMPLOYEE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PLAN

(as of December 8, 2003)

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. (the  Company ) hereby amends and restates in its entirety the Applied
Materials, Inc. Employee Financial Assistance Plan adopted on September 10, 1999 (the  Plan )
effective as of December 8, 2003 to read as follows:

SECTION 1   BACKGROUND AND PURPOSES

1.1  Background . The Plan permits the Company to provide officers and employees with
certain kinds of financial assistance. The Plan was first adopted on March 5, 1981 and has been
amended or amended and restated from time to time thereafter. The Board of Directors of the
Company (the  Board ) has determined that the Plan may be reasonably expected to benefit the
Company within the meaning of Section 3.12 of the Company s Bylaws.

1.2  Purpose of the Plan . The Plan is intended to benefit the Company by permitting it
to assist present and future employees by providing funds or guarantees that will assist them in
relocation, purchasing homes, exercising stock options and for other purposes which may be
reasonably expected to benefit the Company within the meaning of Section 3.12 of the Company s
Bylaws.

1.3  Definitions . For purposes of the Plan, the following definitions apply:

1.3.1  Committee  shall mean the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Company.

1.3.2  Equity Advance  shall mean an advance by an agent of the Company to a North American
employee, with no obligation to repay, of sale proceeds not to exceed 90% of the net equity in the
former residence of the employee, provided:

a. The funds are required and used by the employee to make a down payment on the purchase of a
new residence;

b. The funds are required in advance of the closing of the sales transaction for the
employee s former residence; and

- 1 - 

c. The net sales proceeds from the former residence are paid to the Company.

1.3.3  Guaranteed Offer  shall mean a Home Sale Assistance service pursuant to which an agent
of the Company (pursuant to a relocation management services contract with the Company) agrees to
purchase the residence of a North American employee if a suitable third party offer is not
obtained.

1.3.4  Home Sale Assistance  shall mean the relocation services provided by the Company to a
North American employee pursuant to the  North America Relocation Home Sale Assistance: Full
Buyout Program  administered by the Company s North America Relocation Department. For
clarification purposes, the dollar limitations set forth for Home Sale Assistance in paragraphs
3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 below shall mean the maximum Equity Advance or Guaranteed Offer that may be funded
by or on behalf of the Company.

1.3.5  Officers  shall mean, as to the Company, a corporate Vice President and above, and as
to any of the Company s subsidiaries, a Vice President and above.

1.3.6  Section 16 Officers  shall mean those individuals designated as such by the Board of
Directors of the Company.

1.3.7  Special Purpose Loan  shall mean a loan for automobile assistance, housing assistance,
exercising stock options or such other purpose as is reasonably expected to benefit the Company.

SECTION 2   LOANS

2.1  Special Purpose Loans to Non-Officers Employed Outside North America . The
Regional Controller and the Human Resources Director, or their functional equivalent, for the
Company or a subsidiary, acting jointly and in accordance with guidelines and limits approved in
advance by the Vice President, Global Human Resources and the Treasurer of the Company, may
authorize a Special Purpose Loan for automobile assistance, housing assistance, exercising stock
options or for other purposes to any employee employed outside North America who is not an Officer
of the Company, in an amount that, when aggregated with all other outstanding Special Purpose Loans
to such person, does not exceed a total principal amount of $50,000 (as determined using the

- 2 - 

Company s corporate accounting currency exchange rate at the time of issuance of the
then-requested Special Purpose Loan).

2.2  Loans Up to $100,000 to Non-Officers . Upon the written recommendation of the
Company s Vice President, Human Resources as to each loan, any of the Company s Chief Executive
Officer, President or Chief Financial Officer may authorize a Company loan to any employee of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries who is not an Officer in an amount that, when aggregated with
all other outstanding loans by the Company to such person, does not exceed $100,000.

2.3  Loans Up to $200,000 to Non-Officers . Upon the written recommendation of the
Company s Vice President, Human Resources as to each loan, any two separate and individual of the
Company s Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer may authorize a Company
loan to any employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries who is not an Officer in an amount
that, when aggregated with all other outstanding loans by the Company to such person, does not
exceed $200,000.

2.4  Loans to Officers other than Section 16 Officers . The Company s Chief Executive
Officer and President, acting jointly, may authorize a Company loan to any Officer of the Company
or any of its subsidiaries, other than Section 16 Officers, in an amount that, when aggregated with
all other loans to such Officer, does not exceed $200,000.

2.5  Term and Interest of Loans . The term for all loans made pursuant to the authority
set forth in paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4 above shall not exceed five years and shall bear
interest, if at all, at a rate to be determined by the authorizing officers.

2.6  Other Loans . Loans not specifically authorized under paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 and
2.4 hereof may be authorized by the Committee upon a finding that any such loan may be reasonably
expected to benefit the Company; provided, however, that no loans may be made to Section 16
Officers.

SECTION 3   HOME SALE ASSISTANCE

3.1  Home Sale Assistance Up to $500,000 to North American Non-Officers . The Company s
Vice President, Human Resources, or his or her designee, may authorize Home Sale Assistance,
including Guaranteed Offers and Equity Advances, to any North

- 3 - 

American employee of the Company who is not an Officer in an amount that does not exceed
$500,000.

3.2  Home Sale Assistance Up to $1,000,000 to North American Non-Officers . The
Company s Vice President, Human Resources, and Treasurer, or his or her designee, acting jointly,
may authorize Home Sale Assistance, including Guaranteed Offers and Equity Advances, to any North
American employee of the Company who is not an Officer in an amount that exceeds $500,000 but does
not exceed $1,000,000.

3.3  Home Sale Assistance to North American Officers other than Section 16 Officers .
Upon the written recommendation by the Company s Vice President, Human Resources, the Company s
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, acting jointly, may authorize Home Sale Assistance,
including Guaranteed Offers and Equity Advances, to any North American Officer of the Company other
than Section 16 Officers in an amount that does not exceed $1,000,000.

3.4  Home Sale Assistance to Section 16 Officers . The Committee may authorize Home
Sale Assistance to any Section 16 Officer upon a finding that such Home Sale Assistance, including
a Guaranteed Offer, may be reasonably expected to benefit the Company; provided, however, that
Section 16 Officers may not receive Equity Advances.

3.5  Other Home Sale Assistance . Home Sale Assistance which is not already authorized
or expressly prohibited under paragraphs 3.1, 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4 hereof may be authorized by the
Committee upon a finding that such Home Sale Assistance may be reasonably expected to benefit the
Company.

3.6  Limitations on Home Sale Assistance . All Home Sale Assistance under this Plan is
subject to the maximum dollar amount of outstanding Home Sale Assistance, including Guaranteed
Offers and Equity Advances, which shall be set from time to time by the Committee.

SECTION 4   ADMINISTRATION AND ACCOUNTING

4.1  Special Purpose Loans . The Regional Controller, or his or her functional
equivalent, for the Company or a subsidiary shall administer all Special Purpose Loans made in his
or her region or area of responsibility and quarterly shall report such loans to the Treasurer of
the Company, including:

- 4 - 

a. the number and amounts of all Special Purpose Loans granted in the reporting quarter; and

b. the balances for all outstanding Special Purpose Loans as of the end of the reporting
quarter.

4.2  Loans . The Treasurer of the Company shall administer all loans made pursuant to
this Plan and semi-annually shall report such loans and Special Purpose Loans to the Committee,
including:

a. the outstanding balances of all loans, including Special Purpose Loans, made during the six
months preceding the date of the report; and

b. the balances of all previously made loans, including Special Purpose Loans, which remain
outstanding as of the end of the six month reporting period.

4.3  Home Sale Assistance .

4.3.1 The Company s Vice President, Human Resources, or his or her designee, shall administer
all Home Sale Assistance made pursuant to the Plan.

4.3.2 The Controller of the Company shall ensure that outstanding Home Sale Assistance,
including all related Guaranteed Offers and Equity Advances, are properly reserved and accounted
for on the books and records of the Company.

4.3.3 The Treasurer of the Company shall semiannually report to the Committee:

a. all Home Sale Assistance, including all related Guaranteed Offers and Equity Advances,
made during the six months preceding the date of the report;

b. all previously made Guaranteed Offers and Equity Advances that remain outstanding; and

c. the then-current fair market value of all acquired properties.

- 5 - 

</EX-10.36>

<EX-10.37>
 3
 f25754exv10w37.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.37

exv10w37 

Exhibit
10.37 

AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.

AMENDED AND RESTATED

EMPLOYEE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PLAN

The Applied Materials, Inc. Employee Financial Assistance Plan, as amended and restated
effective December 9, 2003 (the  Plan ), is hereby further amended as follows:

1. Section 2.5 of the Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:

2.5  Term and Interest of Loans . The term for all loans made
pursuant to the authority set forth in paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4 above shall
not exceed five years and shall bear interest, if at all, at a rate to be determined
by the authorizing officers. Notwithstanding the foregoing, subject to the approval
set forth in paragraph 2.7.3 below, loans may be extended for a term not to exceed
seven years from the original date of the loan. 

2. A new Section 2.7 is hereby added to the Plan as follows:

2.7  Loan Amendments, Modifications and Extensions .

2.7.1 The Vice President, Global Human Resources and the Treasurer of the
Company, acting jointly, may authorize amendments, modifications and extensions to
any loans made by the Company pursuant to paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and 2.6.

2.7.2 In the event that the Vice President, Global Human Resources or the
Treasurer of the Company is a recipient of a loan from the Company for which an
amendment, modification or extension is sought, then, notwithstanding the authority
set forth in paragraph 2.7.1 above, authority shall vest in the Chief Financial
Officer and either the Vice President, Global Human Resources or the Treasurer of
the Company, as appropriate, whose loan is not subject to the proposed amendment,
modification or extension.

2.7.3 Notwithstanding the authority set forth in paragraph 2.7.1 above, the
Chief Financial Officer and the Vice President, Global Human Resources of the
Company, acting jointly, may authorize: (i) the extension of the loan for a term not
to exceed seven years from the original date of the loan, subject to the limitation
set forth in paragraph 2.5 above; and (ii) the forgiveness of all or a portion of a
loan, provided the loan had not been made to either of the aforementioned officers.

2.7.4 On a loan-by-loan basis and subject to certain parameters

approved in
advance by the Vice President, Global Human Resources and Treasurer, the Vice
President, Global Human Resources and the Treasurer of the Company, acting jointly,
may delegate their joint authority hereunder to any Assistant Treasurer of the
Company.

2.7.5 In the event a loan, including a Special Purpose Loan, or Equity Advance
has been made to an employee who later becomes a Section 16 Officer, such loan or
Equity Advance shall become due and payable immediately upon the appointment of such
employee as a Section 16 Officer. 

3. Except as modified herein, all other provisions of the Plan remain in full force and
effect.

</EX-10.37>

<EX-10.38>
 4
 f25754exv10w38.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.38

exv10w38 

Exhibit 10.38 

APPLIED
MATERIALS, INC. 

  GLOBAL EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE PLAN 

1 

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. 
GLOBAL EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE PLAN 

Section 1

ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE

1.1  Purpose . Applied Materials, Inc. having established the Applied Materials, Inc.
Global Executive Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) effective as of September 6, 2000, hereby amends and
restates the Plan effective as of December 10, 2004. The Plan is intended to increase shareholder
value and the success of the Company by motivating executives (a) to perform to the best of their
abilities, and (b) to achieve the Company s objectives. The Plan s goals are to be achieved by
providing such executives with incentive awards based on the achievement of goals relating to their
individual performance, the performance of the individual s business unit and the performance of
the Company.

DEFINITIONS

The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings unless a different meaning is
plainly required by the context:

2.1   Actual Award   means as to any Plan Year, the actual award (if any) payable to a
Participant for the Plan Year. Each Actual Award is determined by the Payout Formula for the Plan
Year, subject to the Committee s authority under Section 3.5 to reduce or increase the award
otherwise determined by the Payout Formula.

2.2   Base Salary   means as to any Plan Year, 100% of the Participant s annualized salary
rate on the last day of Plan participation during the Plan Year. A weighted average annualized
salary rate will be used for certain mid Plan Year status changes including but not limited to
part-time schedules, transfers to other countries and job scope reductions. Such Base Salary shall
be before both (a) deductions for taxes or benefits, and (b) deferrals of compensation pursuant to
Company-sponsored plans.

2.3   Business Unit VP   Business Unit Vice President means the top level executive of a unit
( unit  is determined at the beginning of the plan year by the committee and generally includes
Product Groups, Accounts   Support Functions)

2.4   Committee   means the CEO or a committee appointed by the CEO to administer the Plan.

2.5   Company   means Applied Materials, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

2.6   Disability   means a permanent and total disability determined in accordance with
uniform and nondiscriminatory standards adopted by the Committee from time to time.

2.7   Earnings Per Share   means as to any Plan Year, the Company s Net Income or a business
unit s Pro Forma Net Income, divided by a weighted average number of common shares outstanding and
dilutive common equivalent shares deemed outstanding.

2 

2.8   Executive   means any employee in Global Job Group Senior Executive through x50 with
the title of Director, Senior Director, Managing Director, Appointed Vice President, Corporate Vice
President, Group Vice President, Senior Vice President or Executive Vice President.

2.9   Individual MBOs   means as to a Participant for any Plan Year, the objective and
measurable goals set by a  management by objectives  process and approved by the Committee at their
discretion or the Business Unit Vice President at his/her discretion.

2.10   Maximum Award   means as to any Participant for any Plan Year, the maximum amount
that may be paid to a participant for any Plan Year.

2.11   Participant   means as to any Plan Year, an executive who has been selected by and in
the discretion of the Committee or the Business Unit Vice President for participation in the Plan
for that Plan Year.

2.12   Payout Formula   means as to any Plan Year, the formula or payout matrix established
by the CEO or the Committee in order to determine the Actual Awards (if any) to be paid to
Participants. The formula or matrix may differ from Participant to Participant and may differ from
year to year.

2.13   Performance Goals   means the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the
Committee (in its discretion for Officers) or the Business Unit Vice President (at his/her
discretion for non- Officer executives) to be applicable to a Participant for a Plan Year. As
determined by the CEO, Committee or the Business Unit Vice President, the Performance Goals
applicable to each Participant shall provide for a targeted level or levels of achievement using
both financial and operational performance measures. The Performance Goals may differ from
Participant to Participant.

2.14   Plan Year  means the fiscal year of the Company.

2.15   Retirement   means, with respect to any Participant, a termination of his or her
employment with the Company and all affiliates pursuant to any retirement program adopted by the
Company.

2.16   Target Award   means the target award payable under the Plan to a Participant for the
Plan Year, expressed as a percentage of his or her Base Salary, as determined by the Committee or
the Business Unit Vice President in accordance with Section 3.3.

SELECTION OF PARTICIPANTS AND DETERMINATION OF AWARDS

3.1  Selection of Participants . At the start of each fiscal year, the Committee in its
sole discretion, shall select the executives of the Company who shall be Participants for the Plan
Year. Participation in the Plan is in the sole discretion of the Committee and on a Plan Year by
Plan Year basis. Accordingly, an executive who is a Participant for a given Plan Year in no way is
guaranteed or assured of being selected for participation in any subsequent Plan Year or Years.
Additionally, at the start of each fiscal year the Business Unit Vice President shall select the

3 

executives of the Company (below the Officer level) who shall participate in the Plan.
Participation below the Officer level is at the full discretion of the Business Unit Vice
President, and on a Plan Year by Plan Year basis. Accordingly, an executive who is a Participant
for a given Plan Year in no way is guaranteed or assured of being selected for participation in any
subsequent Plan Year or Years. Any level of Executive who participates in the Plan is not eligible
for any other Company incentive Plan (milestone Plans, Profit Sharing, etc.). An executive must be
enrolled in the Plan by the last business day of the third fiscal quarter in order to be eligible
to participate in the Plan for that fiscal year.

3.2  Determination of Performance Goals . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall
establish the Performance Goals for each Officer Participant for the Plan Year. Such Performance
Goals shall be set forth in writing. The Business Unit Vice President, in his/her sole discretion,
shall establish the Performance Goals for each non- Officer Executive Participant for the Plan
Year. Such Performance Goals shall be set forth in writing.

3.3  Determination of Target Awards . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall
establish a Target Award for each Executive Officer Participant. The CEO or the Committee in its
sole discretion shall determine each Participant s Target Award, and each Target Award shall be set
forth in writing. The Business Unit Vice President, in his/her sole discretion, shall establish a
Target Award for each non- Officer Executive Participant. Each non-Officer Executive Participant s
Target Award shall be determined by the Business Unit Vice President in his/her sole discretion,
and each Target Award shall be set forth in writing.

3.4  Determination of Payout Formula or Formulae . The Committee, in its sole discretion,
shall establish a Payout Formula or Formulae for purposes of determining the Actual Award (if any)
payable to each Participant. Each Payout Formula shall (a) be in writing, (b) be based on a
comparison of actual performance to the Performance Goals, (c) provide for the payment of a
Participant s Target Award if the Performance Goals for the Plan Year are achieved, and (d) provide
for an Actual Award greater than or less than the Participant s Target Award, depending upon the
extent to which actual performance exceeds or falls below the Performance Goals. Notwithstanding
the preceding, no Participant s Actual Award under the Plan may exceed his or her Maximum Award.
In addition, no payments shall be made under the Plan if the Company does not achieve a profit
before tax of 10%. If the Company s profit before tax is greater than 5% but less than 10%, Plan
participants will receive a payout equal to the US profit sharing rate.

3.5  Determination of Actual Awards  . After the end of each Plan Year, the Committee (for
Executive officers) or the Business Unit Vice President (for non- Officer Executives) shall
determine the extent to which the Performance Goals applicable to each Participant for the Plan
Year were achieved or exceeded. The Actual Award for each Participant shall be determined by
applying the Payout Formula to the level of actual performance. Notwithstanding any contrary
provision of the Plan, (a) the Committee, in its sole discretion, or the Business Unit Vice
President (for non-Officer executives) in his/her sole discretion may increase, eliminate or reduce
the Actual Award payable to any Participant that which otherwise would be payable under the Payout
Formula. If a Participant terminates employment with the Company prior to the end of the fiscal
year for a reason other than Retirement, Disability or death, he or she shall

4 

not be
entitled to the payment of an Actual Award for the Plan Year. An Award will be paid within two and
one-half calendar months of the end of the Plan year to the estate of a deceased Participant, or to
any Participant who terminates employment on account of retirement or disability during the Plan
Year. The award will be determined based on the participant s level of achievement against the
Performance Goals and is at the full discretion of the Committee. For Participants who are not
enrolled in the Plan for a full Plan year due to leave of absence or disability, the award will be
determined based on the participant s level of achievement against the Performance Goals and is at
the full discretion of the Committee. For Participants who join the Plan after the start of the
Plan Year, but before the last business day of the third fiscal quarter, the Target Award will be
pro-rated for their time in the Plan (a partial month shall be treated as a full calendar month)
and the Payout Formula shall be applied to the pro-rated Target Award and the level of actual
performance.

PAYMENT OF AWARDS

4.1  Right to Receive Payment  Each Actual Award that may become payable under the Plan
shall be paid solely from the general assets of the Company. Nothing in this Plan shall be
construed to create a trust or to establish or evidence any Participant s claim of any right other
than as an unsecured general creditor with respect to any payment to which he or she may be
entitled.

4.2  Timing of Payment . Payment of each Actual Award shall be made within two and
one-half calendar months after the end of the Plan Year during which the Award was earned (other
then employees on personal leave of absence on the last day of the Plan Year). In the case of Plan
Participants who were on personal leave of absence, on the last day of the Plan Year, the payout
will not be made until the employee has returned to work for 90 days.

4.3  Form of Payment . Each Actual Award normally shall be paid in cash (or its equivalent)
in a single lump sum.

ADMINISTRATION

5.1  Committee is the Administrator . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.

5.2  Delegation by the Committee . The Committee, in its sole discretion and on such terms
and conditions as it may provide, may delegate all or any part of its authority and powers under
the Plan to one or more officers or employees of the Company. As of the effective date of the Plan
and until otherwise determined by the Committee, each Business Unit Vice President shall exercise
the powers of the Committee under Section 3, but only with respect to Executives and Participants
who are direct reports of the Business Unit Vice President. Notwithstanding the preceding, each
decision, action or determination under the Plan by any Business Unit Vice President shall be
subject to change by the Committee.

5.3  Committee Authority  the Committee shall have all discretion and authority necessary or
appropriate to administer the Plan and to interpret the provisions of the Plan. Any determination,
decision or action of the Committee in connection with the construction, interpretation,
administration or application of the Plan (or any delegate of the committee) shall be final,

5 

conclusive, and binding upon all persons, and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by
law.

5.4  Tax Withholding  The Company shall withhold all applicable taxes from any payment,
including (but not limited to) any income, payroll, employment or other taxes

GENERAL PROVISIONS

6.1  Nonassignability . A Participant shall have no right to assign or transfer any
interest under this Plan.

6.2  No Effect on Employment . The establishment and subsequent operation of the Plan,
including eligibility as a Participant, shall not be construed as conferring any legal or other
rights upon any Participant for the continuation of his or her employment for any Plan Year or any
other period. Employment with the Company is on an at-will basis only. The Company expressly
reserves the right, which may be exercised at any time and without regard to when during a Plan
Year such exercise occurs, to terminate any individual s employment with or without cause, and to
treat him or her without regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him or her as a
Participant.

6.3  No Individual Liability . No member of the Committee or the Board, or any officer or
employee of the Company, shall be liable for any determination, decision or action made in good
faith with respect to the Plan or any award under the Plan.

6.4  Severability; Governing Law.  If any provision of the Plan is found to be invalid or
unenforceable, such provision shall not affect the other provisions of the Plan, and the Plan shall
be construed in all respects as if such invalid provision had been omitted. The provisions of the
Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California,
with the exception of California s conflict of laws provisions.

6.5  Affiliates of the Company.  Requirements referring to employment with the Company or
payment of awards may, in the Committee s discretion, be performed through the Company or any
affiliate of the Company.

AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

7.1  Amendment and Termination . The Committee may amend or terminate the Plan at any time
and for any reason.

6 

</EX-10.38>

<EX-10.39>
 5
 f25754exv10w39.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.39

exv10w39 

Exhibit 10.39 

EXECUTION
COPY 

U.S. $100,000,000

364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT 

Dated as of September 14, 2006

Between

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.  
 as   Borrower 

and

CITICORP USA, INC. 

as   Lender 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

i 

* 
       
     These schedules and exhibits have not been filed herewith. The Company agrees to furnish
supplementally any omitted materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request. 

ii 

364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT

Dated as of September 14, 2006

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC., a Delaware corporation, and CITICORP USA, INC. agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS

SECTION 1.01  Certain Defined Terms .

As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such
meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):

Adjusted CD Rate   means, for any Interest Period for each Adjusted CD Rate Advance,
an interest rate per annum equal to the sum of:

(a) the rate per annum obtained by dividing (i) the rate of interest determined by the Lender
to be the bid rates per annum, at 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) (or as soon thereafter as
practicable) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period, of New York
certificate of deposit dealers of recognized standing selected by the Lender for the purchase at
face value of certificates of deposit of Citibank in an amount substantially equal to such Adjusted
CD Rate Advance and with a maturity equal to such Interest Period, by (ii) a percentage equal to
100% minus the Adjusted CD Rate Reserve Percentage (as defined below) for such Interest Period,
 plus 

(b) the Assessment Rate (as defined below) for such Interest Period.

The   Adjusted CD Rate Reserve Percentage   for any Interest Period for each Adjusted CD
Rate Advance means the reserve percentage applicable on the first day of such Interest Period under
regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or
any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, but not limited to, any
emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal
Reserve System in New York City with deposits exceeding $5 billion with respect to liabilities
consisting of or including (among other liabilities) U.S. dollar nonpersonal time deposits in the
United States with a maturity equal to such Interest Period and in an amount of $100,000. The
  Assessment Rate   for any Interest Period for each Adjusted CD Rate Advance means the
annual assessment rate estimated by the Lender on the first day of such Interest Period for
determining the then current annual assessment payable by Citibank to the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (or any successor) for insuring U.S. dollar deposits of Citibank in the United States.

Adjusted CD Rate Advance   means a Revolving Credit Advance that bears interest as
provided in Section 2.06(a)(iii).

Affiliate   means, as to any Person, other than in respect of the Borrower or any of
its direct or indirect Subsidiaries, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is
controlled by or is under common control with such Person. For purposes of this definition, the
term  control  (including the terms  controlling ,  controlled by  and  under common control with )
of a Person means the
possession, direct or indirect, of the power to vote, for purposes of Section 5.02(f) 10%, and
for all other purposes 5%, or more of the Voting Stock of such Person or to direct or cause the
direction of the

1 

management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting
Stock, by contract or otherwise.

Applicable Lending Office   means the Lender s Domestic Lending Office in the case of
a Base Rate Advance, the Lender s Eurodollar Lending Office in the case of a Eurodollar Rate
Advance and the Lender s CD Lending Office in the case of an Adjusted CD Rate Advance.

Applicable Margin   means, as of any date, a percentage per annum determined by
reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:

Applicable Margin 
       
     Applicable Margin 
       
     Applicable Margin 

Public Debt Rating 
       
     for Base Rate 
       
     for Eurodollar Rate 
       
     for Adjusted CD 

S P/Moody s 
       
     Advances 
       
     Advances 
       
     Rate Advances 

Level 1 
A /A1 or above

* 
     ** 

* 
     ** 

Level 2 
A/A2

*** 

* 
     ** 

* 
     ** 

Level 3 
A-/A3

*** 

* 
     ** 

* 
     ** 

Level 4  
BBB /Baa1

*** 

* 
     ** 

* 
     ** 

Level 5  
Lower than
Level 4 or
unrated

*** 

* 
     ** 

* 
     ** 

Applicable Percentage   means, as of any date, a percentage per annum
determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:

Public Debt Rating 

S P/Moody s 
       
     Applicable Percentage 

Level 1 
A /A1 or above

*** 

Level 2  
A/A2

*** 

Level 3  
A-/A3

*** 

Level 4  
BBB /Baa1

*** 

Level 5  
Lower than Level 4 or unrated

*** 

Applicable Utilization Fee   means (a) when the aggregate Revolving Credit
Advances are equal to or less than 33% of the Commitment, a percentage per annum equal to 0%, and
(b) when the

information has
been omitted and filed separately with the Commission. Confidential treatment
has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.  

2 

aggregate Revolving Credit Advances exceed 33% of the Commitment, a percentage per annum equal
to 0.125%.

Base Rate   means a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time,
which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of:

(a) the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank in New York, New York, from time to
time, as Citibank s base rate;

(b) the sum (adjusted to the nearest 1/4 of 1% or, if there is no nearest 1/4 of 1%, to the
next higher 1/4 of 1%) of (i)   1  / 2  of 1% per annum,  plus  (ii) the rate obtained by dividing
(A) the latest three-week moving average of secondary market morning offering rates in the United
States for three-month certificates of deposit of major United States money market banks, such
three-week moving average (adjusted to the basis of a year of 360 days) being determined weekly on
each Monday (or, if such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day) for the
three-week period ending on the previous Friday by Citibank on the basis of such rates reported by
certificate of deposit dealers to and published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or, if such
publication shall be suspended or terminated, on the basis of quotations for such rates received by
Citibank from three New York certificate of deposit dealers of recognized standing selected by
Citibank, by (B) a percentage equal to 100% minus the average of the daily percentages specified
during such three-week period by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any
successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, but not limited to, any
emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for Citibank with respect to
liabilities consisting of or including (among other liabilities) three-month U.S. dollar
non-personal time deposits in the United States,  plus  (iii) the average during such
three-week period of the annual assessment rates estimated by Citibank for determining the then
current annual assessment payable by Citibank to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (or any
successor) for insuring U.S. dollar deposits of Citibank in the United States; and

(c)   1  / 2  of one percent per annum above the Federal Funds Rate.

Base Rate Advance   means a Revolving Credit Advance that bears interest as provided
in Section 2.06(a)(i).

Benefit Arrangement   means at any time an employee benefit plan within the meaning of
Section 3(3) of ERISA which is not a Plan or a Multiemployer Plan and which is maintained or
otherwise contributed to by any member of the ERISA Group.

Borrower   means Applied Materials, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

Business Day   means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized
by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Rate
Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.

Capitalized Lease   means any lease the obligation for rentals with respect to which
is required to be capitalized on a Consolidated balance sheet of the lessee and its Subsidiaries in
accordance with GAAP.

Capitalized Rentals   of any Person means at any date the amount at which the
aggregate rentals due and to become due under all Capitalized Leases under which such Person is a
lessee would be reflected as a liability on a Consolidated balance sheet of such Person.

3 

CD Lending Office   means the office of the Lender specified as its  CD Lending
Office  opposite its name on Schedule I hereto, or such other office of the Lender as the Lender
may from time to time specify to the Borrower.

Citibank   means Citibank, N.A.

Closing Date   means September 17, 2006 or such other date as may be agreed upon by
the Borrower and Lender.

Commitment   means the amount set forth opposite the Lender s name on the signature
pages hereof, as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.04.

Communications   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.02(b).

Consolidated   refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP.

Consolidated Debt   means all Debt of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, determined in
accordance with GAAP on a consolidated basis after eliminating intercompany items.

Consolidated Net Tangible Assets   means, at any date, the total amount of all
Tangible Assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries after deducting therefrom all liabilities
which in accordance with GAAP would be included on their consolidated balance sheet, except
Consolidated Debt.

Consolidated Total Assets   means, at any date, the total assets of the Borrower and
its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP.

Convert  ,   Conversion   and   Converted   each refers to a conversion of
Revolving Credit Advances of one Type into Revolving Credit Advances of the other Type pursuant to
Section 2.07 or 2.08.

Debt   of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all Indebtedness of such Person
for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred and unpaid purchase price
of property or services (other than trade payables and accrued expenses incurred in the ordinary
course of such Person s business), (c) all Indebtedness of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds,
debentures or other similar evidences of indebtedness, (d) all obligations of such Person created
or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property
acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such
agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property) including,
without limitation, obligations secured by Liens arising from the sale or transfer of notes or
accounts receivable;  provided  that Debt shall not include any sale or transfer of notes or
accounts receivable whether or not precautionary Liens are filed or recorded in connection with
such sale or transfer of such notes or accounts receivable, if and only if such sale or transfer
(A) is accounted for as true sale under GAAP and (B) pursuant to which there is no recourse (other
than recourse for breach of customary representations and warranties or in connection with any such
sales or transfers) to the seller of such notes or accounts receivable (as evidenced by there being
no accounting reserve taken or required to be taken, which in the event a reserve is taken, the
amount of Debt shall be deemed to be the amount of such reserve), and  provided ,
 further , that all trade payables and accrued expenses constituting current liabilities
shall be excluded, (e) all Capitalized Rentals, (f) reimbursement obligations of such Person in
respect of credit enhancement instruments, which reimbursement obligations are then due and payable
by such Person, (g) all Debt of others referred to in clauses (a) through (f) above or clause (h)
below guaranteed directly or indirectly in any manner by such Person, or in effect guaranteed
directly or indirectly by such Person through an agreement (1) to pay

4 

or purchase such Debt or to advance or supply funds for the payment or purchase of such Debt,
(2) to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor) property, or to purchase or sell services,
primarily for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make payment of such Debt or to assure the
holder of such Debt against loss, (3) to supply funds to or in any other manner invest in the
debtor (including any agreement to pay for property or services irrespective of whether such
property is received or such services are rendered) or (4) otherwise to assure a creditor against
loss, and (h) all Debt referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above secured by (or for which the
holder of such Debt has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on
property (including, without limitation, accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, even
though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Debt, including,
without limitation, obligations secured by Liens arising from the sale or transfer of notes,
accounts receivable or other assets;  provided ,  however , that obligations of such
Person secured by Liens on notes, accounts receivable or other assets sold or transferred in a
transaction which is accounted for as a true sale under GAAP shall not be Debt under this
definition.

The Borrower s obligations under operating leases and Off-Balance Sheet Leases shall be excluded
from this definition of Debt;  provided  that (A) no such exclusion shall be made if and to
the extent that GAAP would require such obligations to be classified as debt for borrowed money and
(B) in any event the term  Debt  shall include the Excess Lease Financed Amount (if any).

Default   means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of
Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.

Domestic Lending Office   means the office of the Lender specified as its  Domestic
Lending Office  opposite its name on Schedule I hereto, or such other office of the Lender as the
Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower.

EBITDA   means, for any period, Net Income plus, to the extent deducted in determining
such Net Income, the sum of (a) Interest Expense, (b) income tax expense, (c) depreciation expense,
(d) amortization expense, (e) one-time non-cash charges related to asset impairments and
restructuring activities, and (f) cash and non-cash portions of discontinued operations and
extraordinary items, all determined on a Consolidated basis for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries
in accordance with GAAP.

Effective Date   has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.

Eligible Assignee   means (i) a Lender, (ii) an Affiliate of a Lender, and (iii) any
other Person that has a rating for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt
of not lower than A by S P or A2 by Moody s and is approved by Borrower, such approval not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

Environmental Action   means any action, suit, demand, demand letter, claim, notice of
non-compliance or violation, notice of liability or potential liability, investigation, proceeding,
consent order or consent agreement relating in any way to any Environmental Law, Environmental
Permit or Hazardous Substances or arising from alleged injury or threat of injury to health, safety
or the environment, including, without limitation, (a) by any governmental or regulatory authority
for enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or damages and (b) by any
governmental or regulatory authority or any third party for damages, contribution, indemnification,
cost recovery, compensation or injunctive relief.

Environmental Laws   means any and all federal, state, local and foreign statutes,
laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, injunctions and other
governmental restrictions

5 

relating to the environment or the effect of the environment on human health or to emissions,
discharges or releases of pollutants, contaminants, Hazardous Substances or wastes into the
environment including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, ground water or land, or
otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal,
transport or handling of pollutants, contaminants, Hazardous Substances or wastes or the clean-up
or other remediation thereof.

Environmental Permit   means any permit, approval, identification number, license or
other authorization required under any Environmental Law.

Equity Affiliate   means any Person in which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries
holds an equity investment that is accounted for under the equity method.

ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any
successor statute.

ERISA Affiliate   means any member of the ERISA Group.

ERISA Group   means the Borrower, any Subsidiary and all members of a controlled group
of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control
which, together with the Borrower or any Subsidiary, are treated as a single employer under Section
414 of the Internal Revenue Code.

Eurocurrency Liabilities   has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.

Eurodollar Lending Office   means the office of the Lender specified as its
 Eurodollar Lending Office  opposite its name on Schedule I hereto, or such other office of the
Lender as the Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower.

Eurodollar Rate   means, for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance, an
interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a) the rate per annum
(rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum) appearing on Dow Jones
Markets Telerate Page 3750 (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate for
deposits in U.S. dollars at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the
first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any
reason such rate is not available, the rate per annum at which deposits in U.S. dollars are offered
by the principal office of Citibank in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank
market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period
in an amount substantially equal to such Eurodollar Rate Advance to be outstanding during such
Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period by (b) a percentage equal to 100%
minus the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage for such Interest Period.

Eurodollar Rate Advance   means a Revolving Credit Advance that bears interest as
provided in Section 2.06(a)(ii).

Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage   for any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Rate
Advance means the reserve percentage applicable two Business Days before the first day of such
Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including,
without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member
bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with respect to liabilities or assets
consisting of or including

6 

Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes
deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurodollar Rate Advances is determined) having
a term equal to such Interest Period.

Events of Default   has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.

Excess Lease Financed Amount   means the amount (if any) by which the Lease Financed
Amount exceeds (a) $300,000,000 at any time when the Borrower s Public Debt Rating is lower than
BBB  by S P or Baa1 by Moody s or (b) $600,000,000 at any time when the Borrower s Public Debt
rating is at least BBB  by S P or Baa1 by Moody s.

Federal Funds Rate   means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum
equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal
funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as
published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day)
by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a
Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the
Lender from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.

Funded Debt   means, with respect to any Person for such Person and its Subsidiaries,
determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, at the time of determination, the sum
of the outstanding principal amount of all Debt which would be reflected as liabilities on the
balance sheet of such Person, other than the following items which shall not be included in Funded
Debt: (a) Debt or other obligations of others guaranteed by such Person and its Subsidiaries; (b)
all reimbursement obligations (whether contingent or otherwise) in respect of the undrawn portion
of letters of credit, bankers  acceptances, surety or other bonds, and similar instruments
(including, without limitation, those outstanding with respect to letters of credit); and (c) all
liabilities in respect of unfunded vested benefits under any Plan.

GAAP   means at any time generally accepted accounting principles as then in effect,
applied on a basis consistent (except for changes concurred in by the Borrower s independent public
accountants) with the most recent audited consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries delivered to the Lender;  provided  that, if the Borrower notifies the Lender
that the Borrower wishes to amend any covenant in Article V or any definition of a term used in any
such covenant to eliminate the effect of any change in generally accepted accounting principles on
the operation of such covenant (or if the Lender notifies the Borrower that it wishes to amend any
such covenant or definition for such purpose), then, for purposes of such covenant or definition
only,  GAAP  shall mean GAAP as in effect immediately before the relevant change in generally
accepted accounting principles became effective, until either such notice is withdrawn or such
covenant or definition is amended in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Lender.

Hazardous Substances   means any substance or waste defined as  toxic  or  hazardous 
under any Environmental Laws, including, without limitation, petroleum, its derivatives,
by-products and other hydrocarbons.

Hedge Agreements   means interest rate swap, cap or collar agreements, interest rate
future or option contracts, currency swap agreements, currency future or option contracts and other
similar agreements.

7 

Indebtedness   of any Person means and includes all obligations of such Person which
in accordance with GAAP should be classified upon a balance sheet of such Person as liabilities of
such Person.

Intangible Assets   means at any date the total amount of all assets of the Borrower
and its Subsidiaries that are properly classified as  intangible assets  in accordance with GAAP
and, in any event, shall include, without limitation, goodwill, patents, trade names, trademarks,
copyrights, franchises, experimental expense, organization expense, unamortized debt discount and
expense, and deferred charges other than prepaid insurance, prepaid leases and prepaid taxes and
current deferred taxes which are classified on the balance sheet of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries as a current asset in accordance with GAAP and in which classification the Borrower s
independent public accountants concur;  provided  that the foregoing Intangible Assets shall
be deemed to be in an amount equal to zero at all times during which such Intangible Assets, in the
aggregate, are less than 2% of stockholders  equity of the Borrower.

Interest Expense   of any Person for any period means the aggregate amount of interest
or fees paid, accrued or scheduled to be paid or accrued in respect of any Debt (including the
interest portion of rentals under Capitalized Leases) and all but the principal component of
payments in respect of conditional sales, equipment trust or other title retention agreements paid,
accrued or scheduled to be paid or accrued by such Person during such period, net of interest
income, determined in accordance with GAAP.

Interest Period   means, for each Eurodollar Rate Advance or Adjusted CD Rate Advance,
the period commencing on the date of such Revolving Credit Advance or the date of the Conversion of
any Revolving Credit Advance into such an Revolving Credit Advance and ending on the last day of
the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, with respect
to Eurodollar Rate Advances or Adjusted CD Rate Advances, each subsequent period commencing on the
last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period
selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest
Period shall be one, two, three or six months in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, and 30, 60,
90, 120 or 180 days in the case of an Adjusted CD Rate Advance, in each case, as the Borrower may,
upon notice received by the Lender not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third
Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select;  provided ,
 however , that:

(i) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that ends after the Termination
Date;

(ii) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurodollar Rate Advances or
Adjusted CD Rate Advances shall be of the same duration;

(iii) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other
than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the
next succeeding Business Day,  provided ,  however , in the case of an Interest
Period for a Eurodollar Rate Advance that, if such extension would cause the last day of
such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such
Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and

(iv) in the case of an Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Advance, whenever the
first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which
there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial
calendar month

8 

by the number of months equal to the number of months in such Interest Period, such
Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month.

Internal Revenue Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time
to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.

Lease Financed Amount   means, with respect to Off-Balance Sheet Leases, (a) in the
case of the Existing Off-Balance Sheet Lease, the sum of the aggregate outstanding principal amount
of the Loans (as defined therein) and the outstanding Investment Amounts (as defined therein) or
(b) in the case of any other Off-Balance Sheet Lease, the sum of the comparable amounts as defined
therein.

Lender   means Citigroup USA, Inc. and any Eligible Assignee thereof, as applicable.

Lender s Account   means the account of the Lender maintained by the Lender at
Citibank at its office at 399 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10043, Account No. 4058-0062,
Attention: Steven Curcio, Global Loans.

Leverage Ratio   means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated
Funded Debt, to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently completed four consecutive fiscal
quarters ending on or prior to such date, in each case for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of
such date.

Lien   means any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind,
or any other type of preferential arrangement, including, without limitation, the lien or retained
security title of a conditional vendor and any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title
to real property.

Off Balance Sheet Leases and the arrangements set forth therein shall be excluded from this
definition;  provided  that:

(a) if any portion of the Lease Financed Amount is included in Debt under the last sentence of
the definition of Debt, then for purposes of Section 5.03, Off-Balance Sheet Leases and the
arrangements set forth therein shall be deemed to create a Lien securing the Excess Lease Financed
Amount; and

(b) if Off-Balance Sheet Leases and the arrangements set forth therein create a lien on any
property or assets other than (i) the property and assets leased pursuant to Off-Balance Sheet
Leases, (ii) rights of the Borrower as sublessor of any portion of such property and assets and
(iii) Permitted Lease Collateral, such lien shall not be excluded from this definition.

Margin Stock   means  margin stock  as such term is defined in Regulation U.

Material Adverse Effect   means any material adverse change in the business, condition
(financial or otherwise) or operations of the Borrower or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken
as a whole.

Material Debt   means Debt (other than the Note) of the Borrower and/or one or more of
its Subsidiaries, arising in one or more related or unrelated transactions, in an aggregate
principal or face amount exceeding $75,000,000.

Material Financial Obligations   means a principal or face amount of Debt and/or
payment obligations (calculated after giving effect to any applicable netting agreements) in
respect of

9 

Hedge Agreements of the Borrower and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries, arising in one or
more related or unrelated transactions, exceeding in the aggregate $75,000,000.

Material Plan   means, at any time, a Plan or Plans having aggregate Unfunded
Liabilities in excess of $75,000,000.

Minority Interests   means any shares of stock of any class of a Subsidiary (other
than directors  qualifying shares as required by law) that are not owned by the Borrower and/or one
or more of its Subsidiaries.

Moody s   means Moody s Investors Service, Inc. or its successors.

Multiemployer Plan   means, at any time, an employee pension benefit plan within the
meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA to which any member of the ERISA Group is then making or
accruing an obligation to make contributions or has within the preceding five plan years made
contribution, including for these purposes any Person which ceased to be a member of the ERISA
Group during such five year period.

Net Income   of any Person means, for any period, net income before (i) extraordinary
items, (ii) the results of discontinued operations and (iii) the effect of any cumulative change in
accounting principles, determined in accordance with GAAP.

Notice of Revolving Credit Advance   has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).

Off-Balance Sheet Leases   means one or more lease agreements and related agreements
entered into by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries form time to time, in each case in a
transaction which the Borrower or such Subsidiary intends to be treated as an  operating lease  for
financial reporting purposes but as a loan for one or more of the following purposes: (a) federal,
state and local income or franchise tax, (b) bankruptcy, (c) real estate law and (d) commercial law
(including uniform commercial law).

Patriot Act   means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate
Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56.

PBGC   means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor).

Permitted Lease Collateral   means any cash or cash equivalents securing the
obligations of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries in any Off-Balance Sheet Lease.

Person   means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust),
joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or
other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.

Plan   means, at any time, an employee pension benefit plan (other than a
Multiemployer Plan) which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding
standards under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code and either (i) is maintained, or
contributed to, by any member of the ERISA Group for employees of any member of the ERISA Group or
(ii) has at any time within the preceding five years been maintained, or contributed to, by any
Person which was at such time a member of the ERISA Group for employees of any Person which was at
such time a member of the ERISA Group.

10 

Public Debt Rating   means, as of any date for S P, the lowest rating that has been
most recently announced by S P for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt
issued by the Borrower and, as of any date for Moody s, the lowest rating that has been most
recently announced by Moody s for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt
issued by the Borrower. For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if only one of S P and Moody s shall
have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be
determined by reference to the available rating; (b) if neither S P nor Moody s shall have in
effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage will be set in
accordance with Level 5 under the definition of   Applicable Margin   or   Applicable
Percentage  , as the case may be; (c) if the ratings established by S P and Moody s shall fall
within different levels, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon
the higher rating; (d) if any rating established by S P or Moody s shall be changed, such change
shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating
agency making such change; and (e) if S P or Moody s shall change the basis on which ratings are
established, each reference to the Public Debt Rating announced by S P or Moody s, as the case may
be, shall refer to the then equivalent rating by S P or Moody s, as the case may be.

Reportable Event   means any  reportable event  as defined in section 4043 of ERISA
for which the 30-day notice requirement has not been waived under applicable regulations.

Revolving Credit Advance   means an advance by the Lender to the Borrower and refers
to a Base Rate Advance, a Eurodollar Rate Advance or an Adjusted CD Rate Advance (each of which
shall be a   Type   of Revolving Credit Advance).

Revolving Credit Note   means a promissory note of the Borrower payable to the order
of the Lender, delivered pursuant to a request made under Section 2.14 in substantially the form of
Exhibit A hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of the Borrower to the Lender resulting
from the Revolving Credit Advances.

S P   means Standard   Poor s, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. or its
successors.

SEC   means the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Subsidiary   means, as to any Person, any corporation or other entity of which
securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the
board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are at the time directly or
indirectly owned by such Person; unless otherwise specified,  Subsidiary  means a Subsidiary of the
Borrower.

Tangible Assets   means, at any date, Consolidated Total Assets (less depreciation,
depletion and other properly deductible valuation reserves) after deducting (but without
duplication) Intangible Assets.

Termination Date   means the earlier of (a) September 16, 2007, and (b) the date of
termination of the Commitment pursuant to Section 2.04 or 6.01.

Unfunded Liabilities   means, with respect to any Plan at any time, the amount (if
any) by which (i) the value of all benefit liabilities under such Plan, determined on a plan
termination basis using the assumptions prescribed by the PBGC for purposes of Section 4044 of
ERISA, exceeds (ii) the fair market value of all Plan assets allocable to such liabilities under
Title IV of ERISA (excluding any accrued but unpaid contributions), all determined as of the then
most recent valuation date for such Plan,

11 

but only to the extent that such excess represents a potential liability of a member of the
ERISA Group to the PBGC or any other Person under Title IV of ERISA.

Voting Stock   means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in
any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to
vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even
if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.

SECTION 1.02  Computation of Time Periods . In this Agreement in the computation of
periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word  from  means  from and
including  and the words  to  and  until  each mean  to but excluding .

SECTION 1.03  Accounting Terms . All accounting terms not specifically defined herein
shall be construed in accordance with GAAP.

ARTICLE II

AMOUNTS AND TERMS OF THE ADVANCES

SECTION 2.01  The Revolving Credit Advances . The Lender agrees, on the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Revolving Credit Advances to the Borrower from time to
time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date in an
aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the Lender s Commitment. Each Revolving
Credit Advance shall be in an amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess
thereof. Within the limits of the Lender s Commitment, the Borrower may borrow under this Section
2.01, prepay pursuant to Section 2.09 and reborrow under this Section 2.01.

SECTION 2.02  Making the Revolving Credit Advances . (a) Each Revolving Credit Advance
shall be made on notice, given not later than (i) 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the third
Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Advance in the case of a Eurodollar
Rate Advance, (ii) 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the second Business Day prior to the date of
the proposed Revolving Credit Advance in the case of an Adjusted CD Rate Advance or (iii) 12:00
noon (New York City time) on the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Advance in the case of a
Base Rate Advance, by the Borrower to the Lender. Each such notice of a Revolving Credit Advance
(a  Notice of Revolving Credit Advance ) shall be by telephone or email, confirmed immediately in
writing, telecopier or email in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto, specifying therein the
requested (I) date of such Revolving Credit Advance, (II) Type of Revolving Credit Advances, (III)
amount of such Revolving Credit Advance, and (IV) in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance or
Adjusted CD Rate Advance, initial Interest Period for each such Revolving Credit Advance. The
Lender shall, before 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of such Revolving Credit Advance
and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, make such Advance
available to the Borrower at such account as is mutually agreed to.

(b) Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) the Borrower may not
select Eurodollar Rate Advances or Adjusted CD Rate Advances if the amount thereof is less than
$10,000,000 or if the obligation of the Lender to make Eurodollar Rate Advances shall then be
suspended pursuant to Section 2.07 or 2.11 and (ii) there may not be more than six separate
Eurodollar Rate Advances outstanding at any time.

(c) Each Notice of Revolving Credit Advance shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.

12 

SECTION 2.03  Fees . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Lender a facility fee on the
amount of the Lender s Commitment from the date hereof until the Termination Date at a rate per
annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly
on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing December 31, 2006, and on
the Termination Date.

SECTION 2.04  Termination or Reduction of the Commitment . The Borrower shall have the
right, upon at least three Business Days  notice to the Lender, to terminate in whole or reduce in
part, the unused portions of the Commitment of the Lender, provided that each partial reduction
shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess
thereof. Once terminated or reduced, the Commitment may not be reinstated.

SECTION 2.05  Repayment of Revolving Credit Advances . The Borrower shall repay to the
Lender on the Termination Date the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances then
outstanding.

SECTION 2.06  Interest on Revolving Credit Advances .

(a)  Scheduled Interest . The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal
amount of each Revolving Credit Advance from the date of such Revolving Credit Advance until such
principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:

(i)  Base Rate Advances . During such periods as such Revolving Credit Advance
is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (x) the Base Rate
in effect from time to time  plus  (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to
time  plus  (z) the Applicable Utilization Fee, if any, in effect from time to time,
payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December
during such periods and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in
full.

(ii)  Eurodollar Rate Advances . During such periods as such Revolving Credit
Advance is a Eurodollar Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each
Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Advance to the sum of (x) the Eurodollar Rate for
such Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Advance  plus  (y) the Applicable
Margin in effect from time to time  plus  (z) the Applicable Utilization Fee, if any,
in effect from time to time, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and,
if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs
during such Interest Period every three months from
the first day of such Interest Period and on the date such Eurodollar Rate Advance
shall be Converted or paid in full.

(iii)  Adjusted CD Rate Advances . During such periods as such Revolving Credit
Advance is an Adjusted CD Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each
Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Advance to the sum of (x) the Adjusted CD Rate for
such Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Advance  plus  (y) the Applicable
Margin in effect from time to time  plus  (z) the Applicable Utilization Fee, if any,
in effect from time to time, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and,
if such Interest Period has a duration of more than 90 days, on each day that occurs during
such Interest Period every 90 days from the first day of such Interest Period and on the
date such Adjusted CD Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.

(b)  Default Interest . Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of
Default, the Borrower shall pay interest on (i) the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving
Credit

13 

Advance, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in clause (a)(i), (a)(ii) or (a)(iii)
above, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to
be paid on such Revolving Credit Advance pursuant to clause (a)(i), (a)(ii) or (a)(iii) above and
(ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest, fee or other amount
payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such
amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and
on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required
to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) above.

SECTION 2.07  Interest Rate Determination .

(a) If, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Lender notifies the Borrower that
the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Advances will not adequately
reflect the cost to the Lender of making, funding or maintaining Eurodollar Rate Advances for such
Interest Period, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then
existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance, and (ii) the obligation of the
Lender to make, or to Convert Revolving Credit Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be
suspended until the Lender shall notify the Borrower that the circumstances causing such suspension
no longer exist.

(b) If the Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any
Eurodollar Rate Advances or Adjusted CD Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained
in the definition of  Interest Period  in Section 1.01, such Revolving Credit Advances will
automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, be Converted into
Base Rate Advances.

(c) On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurodollar Rate Advances or
Adjusted CD Rate Advances shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than
$10,000,000, such Revolving Credit Advances shall automatically Convert into Base Rate Advances.

(d) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, (i) each
Eurodollar Rate Advance and each Adjusted CD Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of
the then existing Interest Period therefor Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) the obligation
of the Lender to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances or Adjusted CD Rate
Advances shall be suspended.

SECTION 2.08  Optional Conversion of Revolving Credit Advances . The Borrower may on
any Business Day, upon notice given to the Lender not later than 12:00 noon (New York City time) on
the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion and subject to the provisions
of Sections 2.07 and 2.11, Convert all Revolving Credit Advances of one Type into Revolving Credit
Advances of another Type; provided, however, that any Conversion of Eurodollar Rate Advances or
Adjusted CD Rate Advances into Advances of another type shall be made only on the last day of an
Interest Period for such Advances, any Conversion of Base Rate Advances into Eurodollar Rate
Advances or Adjusted CD Rate Advances shall be in an amount not less than the minimum amount
specified in Section 2.02(b) and no Conversion of any Revolving Credit Advances shall result in
more separate Eurodollar Rate Advances than permitted under Section 2.02(b). Each such notice of a
Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion,
(ii) the Revolving Credit Advances to be Converted, and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurodollar
Rate Advances or Adjusted CD Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period for each
such Revolving Credit Advance. Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the
Borrower.

14 

SECTION 2.09  Optional Prepayments of Revolving Credit Advances . The Borrower may,
upon notice at least two Business Days  prior to the date of such prepayment, in the case of
Eurodollar Rate Advances or Adjusted CD Rate Advances, and not later than 12:00 noon (New York City
time) on the date of such prepayment, in the case of Base Rate Advances, to the Lender stating the
proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the
Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances in whole
or in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount
prepaid; provided, however, that (x) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal
amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (y) in the event
of any such prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Advance or an Adjusted CD Rate Advance, the Borrower
shall be obligated to reimburse the Lender in respect thereof pursuant to Section 7.04(c).

SECTION 2.10  Increased Costs . (a) If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any
change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation after the Effective Date or (ii) the
compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority
(whether or not having the force of law) after the Effective Date, there shall be any increase in
the cost to the Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurodollar Rate
Advances or Adjusted CD Rate Advances (excluding for purposes of this Section 2.10 any such
increased costs resulting from (I) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.13 shall govern) and
(II) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net income or overall gross income by the United
States or by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which the Lender is organized or
has its Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof), then the Borrower shall
from time to time, upon demand by the Lender, pay to the Lender additional amounts sufficient to
compensate the Lender for such increased cost. A certificate as to the amount of such increased
cost, submitted to the Borrower by the Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes,
absent manifest error.

(b) If the Lender determines that compliance with any law or regulation or any guideline or
request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of
law) affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by the
Lender or any corporation controlling the Lender and that the amount of such capital is increased
by or based upon the existence of the Lender s commitment to lend hereunder and other commitments
of this type, then, upon demand by the Lender, the Borrower shall pay to the Lender, from time to
time as
specified by the Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate the Lender or such
corporation in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that the Lender reasonably determines
such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of the Lender s commitment to lend
hereunder. A certificate as to such amounts submitted to the Borrower by the Lender shall be
conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.

(c) If the Lender fails to give the Borrower any prompt notice required by this Section 2.10,
the Borrower shall not be required to indemnify and compensate the Lender under this Section 2.10
for any amounts attributable to the event or factual circumstance required to be disclosed in such
notice and arising during or with respect to any period ending more than 90 days before notice
thereof has been delivered to the Borrower,  provided  that this subsection (c) shall in no
way limit the right of the Lender to demand or receive compensation to the extent that such
compensation relates to any law, rule, regulation, interpretation, administration, request or
directive (or any change therein) which by its terms has retroactive application if such notice is
given within 90 days after the date of enactment or effectiveness of such retroactive law, rule,
regulation, interpretation, administration, request or directive (or change therein).

SECTION 2.11  Illegality . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if
the Lender shall notify the Borrower that the introduction of or any change in or in the
interpretation of

15 

any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other
governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for the Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office
to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to fund or maintain
Eurodollar Rate Advances hereunder, (a) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, upon such
demand, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (b) the obligation of the Lender to make Eurodollar
Rate Advances or to Convert Revolving Credit Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be
suspended until the Lender shall notify the Borrower that the circumstances causing such suspension
no longer exist.

SECTION 2.12  Payments and Computations . (a) The Borrower shall make each payment
hereunder not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day when due to the Lender at the
Lender s Account in same day funds.

(b) All computations of interest based on the Base Rate shall be made by the Lender on the
basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, all computations of interest based on the
Eurodollar Rate, the Adjusted CD Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of facility fees shall be made
by the Lender on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days
(including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such
interest or facility fees are payable. Each determination by the Lender of an interest rate
hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.

(c) Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Revolving Credit Note shall be stated to be
due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business
Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of
interest or facility fee, as the case may be;  provided ,  however , that, if such
extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Rate Advances to be made
in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business
Day.

SECTION 2.13  Taxes . (a) Any and all payments by the Borrower hereunder or under the Revolving Credit Note
shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.12, free and clear of and without deduction for any and
all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all
liabilities with respect thereto, excluding, in the case of the Lender, taxes imposed on its
overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the
jurisdiction under the laws of which the Lender is organized or any political subdivision thereof
and taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net
income taxes, by the jurisdiction of the Lender s Applicable Lending Office or any political
subdivision thereof (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges,
withholdings and liabilities in respect of payments hereunder or under the Revolving Credit Note
being hereinafter referred to as  Taxes ). If the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any
Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Revolving Credit Note to the
Lender, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all
required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section
2.13) the Lender receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions
been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full
amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable
law.

(b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or
any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made
hereunder or under the Revolving Credit Note or from the execution, delivery or registration of,
performing under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or the Revolving Credit Note
(hereinafter referred to as   Other Taxes  ).

16 

(c) The Borrower shall indemnify the Lender for and hold it harmless against the full amount
of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, taxes of any kind imposed by any
jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.13) imposed on or paid by the Lender and any
liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto.
This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date the Lender makes written demand
therefor.

(d) Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Lender, at its address referred to in Section 7.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt
evidencing such payment. In the case of any payment hereunder or under the Revolving Credit Note
by or on behalf of the Borrower through an account or branch outside the United States or by or on
behalf of the Borrower by a payor that is not a United States person, if the Borrower determines
that no Taxes are payable in respect thereof, the Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause such payor
to furnish, to the Lender, at such address, an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Lender stating
that such payment is exempt from Taxes. For purposes of this subsection (d) and subsection (e),
the terms   United States   and   United States person   shall have the meanings
specified in Section 7701 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(e) If the Lender is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States from
time to time thereafter as requested in writing by the Borrower (but only so long as the Lender
remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide the Borrower with two original Internal Revenue
Service forms W-8BEN or W-8EC1, as appropriate, or any successor or other form prescribed by the
Internal Revenue Service, certifying that the Lender is exempt from or entitled to a reduced rate
of United States withholding tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement or the Revolving Credit
Note. If the form provided by the Lender at the time the Lender first becomes a party to this
Agreement indicates a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding
tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until the Lender provides the
appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser
rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such form;
 provided ,  however , that, if at the date the Lender assignee becomes a party to this
Agreement, the assignor was entitled to payments under subsection (a) in respect of United
States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the
term Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or
other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with
respect to the assignee on such date. If any form or document referred to in this subsection (e)
requires the disclosure of information, other than information necessary to compute the tax payable
and information required on the date hereof by Internal Revenue Service form W-8BEN or W-8EC1, that
the Lender reasonably considers to be confidential, the Lender shall give notice thereof to the
Borrower and shall not be obligated to include in such form or document such confidential
information.

(f) For any period with respect to which the Lender has failed to provide the Borrower with
the appropriate form described in Section 2.13(e) ( other   than  if such failure is
due to a change in law occurring subsequent to the date on which a form originally was required to
be provided, or if such form otherwise is not required under subsection (e) above), the Lender
shall not be entitled to indemnification under Section 2.13(a) or (c) with respect to Taxes imposed
by the United States by reason of such failure;  provided ,  however , that should the
Lender become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form required hereunder, the
Borrower shall take such steps as the Lender shall reasonably request to assist the Lender to
recover such Taxes.

(g) If the Lender claims any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.13, it
agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory
restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Eurodollar Lending Office if the making of such a
change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any such additional amounts that may

17 

thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise
disadvantageous to the Lender.

SECTION 2.14  Evidence of Debt . (a) The Lender shall maintain in accordance with its
usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to the Lender
resulting from each Revolving Credit Advance from time to time, including the amounts of principal
and interest payable and paid to the Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Revolving
Credit Advances. The Borrower agrees that upon notice by the Lender to the Borrower to the effect
that a Revolving Credit Note is required or appropriate in order for the Lender to evidence
(whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Revolving Credit Advances owing to,
or to be made by, the Lender, the Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to the Lender a
Revolving Credit Note payable to the order of the Lender in a principal amount up to the Commitment
of the Lender.

(b) Entries made in good faith by the Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection
(a) above, shall be  prima   facie  evidence of the amount of principal and interest
due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to the Lender, under this Agreement,
absent manifest error;  provided ,  however , that the failure of the Lender to make an
entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in such account or accounts shall not limit or
otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

SECTION 2.15  Use of Proceeds . The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Advances shall be
available (and the Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) solely for general corporate
purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including commercial paper backstop.

ARTICLE III

CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND LENDING

SECTION 3.01  Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Section 2.01 . Section 2.01 of
this Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the  Effective Date ) on which
the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:

(a) There shall have occurred no material adverse change in the properties, business, profits
or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken
as a whole since October 30, 2005, except as disclosed in the Borrower s filings with the SEC or as
disclosed in writing to the Lender prior to the date hereof.

(b) Except as set forth under the heading  Legal Proceedings  in the Borrower s 2005 Form 10-K
and other SEC filings filed by Borrower prior to the Effective Date, there shall exist no action,
suit or proceeding pending against, or to the knowledge of the Borrower threatened against or
affecting, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court or arbitrator or any
governmental body, agency or official (i) in which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse
determination which would have a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) which in any manner draws into
question the validity of this Agreement or the Revolving Credit Note.

(c) All governmental and third party consents and approvals necessary in connection with the
transactions contemplated hereby shall have been obtained (without the imposition of any conditions
that are not acceptable to the Lender) and shall remain in effect, and no law, regulation or
provision in an existing agreement shall be applicable in the reasonable judgment of the Lender
that restrains, prevents or imposes materially adverse conditions upon the transactions
contemplated hereby.

18 

(d) The Borrower shall have notified the Lender in writing as to the proposed Effective Date.

(e) The Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees and expenses of the Lender (including the
accrued fees and expenses of counsel to the Lender) as agreed separately in writing by the parties
to such agreement.

(f) On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true:

(i) The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as
of the Effective Date, and

(ii) No event exists that constitutes a Default or Event of Default.

(g) The Lender shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated
such day, in form and substance satisfactory to it:

(i) The Revolving Credit Note to the order of the Lender to the extent requested by the
Lender pursuant to Section 2.14.

(ii) Certified copies of the general resolutions of the Board of Directors of the
Borrower which authorize the Borrower to enter into this Agreement and the Revolving
Credit Note, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and
governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and the Revolving Credit
Note.

(iii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower
certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign
this Agreement and the Revolving Credit Note and the other documents to be delivered
hereunder.

(iv) A favorable opinion of the Vice President, Legal Services of the Borrower,
substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto and as to such other matters as the Lender may
reasonably request.

(v) A favorable opinion of Orrick, Herrington   Sutcliffe, L.L.P., counsel for the
Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto and as to such other matters as the
Lender may reasonably request.

SECTION 3.02  Conditions Precedent to Each Revolving Credit Advance . The obligation of
the Lender to make a Revolving Credit Advance shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the
Effective Date shall have occurred and on the date of such Revolving Credit Advance (a) the
following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Revolving
Credit Advance and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Revolving Credit Advance
shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Revolving
Credit Advance such statements are true):

(i) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (other than Section
4.01(d)(ii)) are correct on and as of the date of such Revolving Credit Advance, before and
after giving effect to such Revolving Credit Advance and to the application of the proceeds
therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, and

19 

(ii) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Revolving
Credit Advance or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a
Default;

and (b) the Lender shall have received such other approvals, opinions or documents as it may
reasonably request.

ARTICLE IV

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

SECTION 4.01  Representations and Warranties of the Borrower . The Borrower represents
and warrants as follows:

(a)  Corporate Existence and Power . Each of the Borrower and each Subsidiary:

(i) is a corporation duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its
jurisdiction of incorporation;

(ii) has all requisite power and authority and all necessary licenses and permits to
own and operate its properties and to carry on its business as now conducted and as
presently proposed to be conducted, except where failures to have such licenses and
permits would not, in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; and

(iii) is duly licensed or qualified and is in good standing as a foreign corporation in
each jurisdiction wherein the nature of the business transacted by it or the nature of the
property owned or leased by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary, except where
failures to be so licensed, qualified or in good standing would not, in the aggregate, have
a Material Adverse Effect.

(b)  Corporate and Governmental Authorization; No Contravention . The execution,
delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the Revolving Credit Note are within
the Borrower s corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action,
require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official
and do not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation
or of the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Borrower or of any agreement, judgment,
injunction, order, decree or other instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries
or result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries.

(c)  Binding Effect . This Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the
Borrower and the Revolving Credit Note, when executed and delivered in accordance with this
Agreement, will constitute a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, in each case enforceable
in accordance with its terms, except as limited by (i) bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws
affecting creditors  rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity.

(d)  Financial Information . (i) The consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and
its Subsidiaries as of October 30, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations and
cash flows for the fiscal year then ended, reported on by KPMG LLP and set forth in the Borrower s
2005 Form 10-K (or an exhibit thereto), a copy of which has been obtained by each of the Lenders,
fairly present, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, the consolidated
financial position

20 

of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of such date and their consolidated
results of operations and cash flows for such fiscal year.

(ii) There has been no material adverse change since October 30, 2005, in the business,
financial position or results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, considered
as a whole, except as disclosed in the Borrower s filings with the SEC prior to the
Effective Date.

(e)  Litigation . Except as set forth under the heading  Legal Proceedings  in the
Borrower s 2005 Form 10-K and as disclosed in any SEC filings of the Borrower made prior to the
Effective Date, and then only to the extent that there have been no adverse developments with
respect to such  Legal Proceedings  since such Form 10-K or in such SEC filings, there is no
action, suit or proceeding pending against, or to the knowledge of the Borrower any investigation,
action, suit or proceeding threatened against or affecting, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries
before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official (i) in which there is a
reasonable possibility of an adverse determination which would have a Material Adverse Effect, or
(ii) which in any manner draws into question the validity of this Agreement or the Revolving Credit
Note.

(f)  Compliance with ERISA . Each member of the ERISA Group has fulfilled its
obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code with respect
to each Plan and is in compliance in all material respects with the presently applicable provisions
of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code with respect to each Plan. No member of the ERISA Group has
(i) sought a waiver of the minimum funding standard under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code
in respect of any Plan, (ii) failed to make any contribution or payment to any Plan or
Multiemployer Plan or in respect of any Benefit Arrangement, or made any amendment to any Plan or
Benefit Arrangement, which has resulted or could result in the imposition of a Lien or the posting
of a bond or other security under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code which will violate Section
5.02(a) hereof or (iii) incurred any unpaid liability in excess of $75,000,000 under Title IV of
ERISA other than a liability to the PBGC for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA.

(g)  Environmental Matters . The Borrower has a process of conducting periodic internal
reviews relating to compliance by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries with Environmental Laws and
liabilities thereunder. On the basis of such reviews and other business processes, except as set
forth in the Borrower s 2005 Form 10-K, nothing has come to the attention of the Borrower which
would lead it to believe that costs associated with compliance with Environmental Laws or
liabilities thereunder (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenses required
for cleanup, closure of properties or compliance with Environmental Laws or any permit, license or
approval, any related constraints on operating activities and any potential liabilities to third
parties) would have a Material Adverse Effect.

(h)  Taxes . All federal and state income tax returns required to be filed by the
Borrower or any Subsidiary in any jurisdiction have, in fact, been filed and all other tax returns
required to be filed in any other jurisdiction have, in fact, been filed, except where the failure
to so file in such jurisdictions (other than in connection with federal or state income tax
returns) would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and all taxes, assessments, fees and other
governmental charges upon the Borrower or any Subsidiary or upon any of their respective
properties, income or franchises, which are shown to be due and payable in such returns, have been
paid. For all taxable years ending on or before October 1997, the Federal income tax liability of
the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has been satisfied and either the period of limitations on
assessment of additional Federal income tax has expired or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries have
entered into an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service closing conclusively the

21 

total tax
liability for the taxable year. The provisions for taxes on the books of the Borrower and each
Subsidiary are adequate for all open years, and for its current fiscal period.

(i)  No Regulatory Restrictions on Advances . The Borrower is not (i) primarily engaged
in a business or businesses of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities;
(ii) a  holding company  or a  subsidiary company  of a holding company within the meaning of the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, as amended; or (iii) otherwise subject to any
regulatory scheme applicable to it which restricts its ability to incur debt under this Agreement.

(j)  Full Disclosure . All written information heretofore furnished by the Borrower to
the Lender for purposes of or in connection with this Agreement or any transaction contemplated
hereby does not, and all such written information hereafter furnished by the Borrower to the Lender
will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or in the aggregate omit a material fact
necessary to make the statements therein not misleading on the date as of which such information is
stated or certified. There is no fact peculiar to the Borrower or its Subsidiaries which the
Borrower has not disclosed to the Lender in writing which has had or, so far as the Borrower can
now reasonably foresee, will have a Material Adverse Effect.

ARTICLE V

COVENANTS OF THE BORROWER

SECTION 5.01  Affirmative Covenants . So long as any Revolving Credit Advance shall remain unpaid or the Lender shall have any
Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will:

(a)  Compliance with Laws, Etc . Comply, and cause each Subsidiary to comply, in all
material respects with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and requirements of
governmental authorities (including, without limitation, Environmental Laws and ERISA and the rules
and regulations thereunder) except (A) where the necessity of compliance therewith is contested in
good faith by appropriate proceedings or (B) where the violation of which, individually or in the
aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to (x) result in a Material Adverse Effect or (y) if
such violation is not remedied, result in any Lien not permitted under Section 5.02(a).

(b)  Payment of Obligations . Pay and discharge, and cause each Subsidiary to pay and
discharge, at or before maturity, all their respective material obligations and liabilities,
including, without limitation, tax liabilities, except where the same may be contested in good
faith by appropriate proceedings, and maintain, and cause each Subsidiary to maintain, in
accordance with GAAP, appropriate reserves for the accrual of any of the same.

(c)  Maintenance of Property; Insurance . (i) Keep, and cause each Subsidiary to keep,
all property useful and necessary in its business in good working order and condition, ordinary
wear and tear excepted;  provided  that nothing in this Section 5.01(c)(i) shall prevent the
abandonment of any property if such abandonment does not result in any Default hereunder and the
Borrower determines, in the exercise of its reasonable business judgment, that such abandonment is
in the interest of the Borrower.

(ii) Maintain, and cause each Subsidiary to maintain, insurance coverage by financially
sound and reputable insurers and in such forms and amounts and against such risks as are
customary for corporations of established reputation engaged in the same or a similar
business and owning and operating similar properties in similar locations.

22 

(d)  Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc . Preserve, renew and keep in full force
and effect, and cause each Subsidiary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect, their
respective corporate existence and their respective rights, privileges and franchises, except to
the extent that failures to maintain their respective rights, privileges and franchises could not,
in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;  provided  that
nothing in this Section 5.01(d) shall prohibit (A) the merger of a Subsidiary into the Borrower or
the merger or consolidation of a Subsidiary with or into another Person if the corporation
surviving such consolidation or merger is a Subsidiary and if, in each case, after giving effect
thereto, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing or (B) the termination of the corporate
existence of any Subsidiary if such termination does not result in any Default hereunder and the
Borrower determines, in the exercise of its reasonable business judgment, that such termination is
in the interest of the Borrower.

(e)  Visitation Rights . Permit the Lender (i) to visit and inspect during normal
business hours (at the expense of such Lender unless an Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing), under the Borrower s guidance and, so long as no Default shall have occurred and be
continuing, upon not less than three Business Days  prior notice, any of the properties of the
Borrower or any Subsidiary, (ii) to examine (to the extent material to ascertaining compliance with
the terms and provisions hereof or to the extent reasonably related to the financial condition or
material operations of the Borrower or a Subsidiary) all of their books of account, records,
reports and other papers, and to make copies and extracts therefrom (other than attorney-client
privileged and attorney work-product documents) and (iii) to the extent material to ascertaining
compliance with the terms and provisions hereof or to the extent reasonably related to the
financial condition or material operations of the Borrower or a Subsidiary, to discuss their
respective affairs, finances and accounts with their respective officers, employees (who are
managers or officers), and independent public accountants and by this provision the Borrower
authorizes said accountants to discuss with the Lender the finances and affairs of the Borrower and
its Subsidiaries;  provided  that the Lender shall have given prior written notice to the
Borrower of its intention to discuss such finances and affairs with such accountants and have given
the Borrower the opportunity to participate in such discussions, all at such reasonable times and
as often as may be reasonably requested. Notwithstanding the above, the Borrower may, if and to
the extent required by applicable law, deny such access or information to the Lender.

(f)  Keeping of Books . Keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books
of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries shall be made of all dealings and
transactions in relation to its business and activities in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles in effect from time to time.

(g)  Reporting Requirements . Deliver in writing or by email to the Lender (except as
stated in clauses (i), (ii), (iv), (vi) and (vii) below and Section 7.01(b)) or make available
electronically:

(i) as soon as available and in any event within 45 days after the end of each
quarterly fiscal period (except the last) of each fiscal year, copies of:

(A) a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries
as of the close of such quarterly fiscal period, setting forth in
comparative form the consolidated figures as of the close of the fiscal year
then most recently ended,

(B) consolidated statements of operations of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries for such quarterly fiscal period and for the portion of the
fiscal year ending with such quarterly fiscal period, in each case setting
forth in comparative

23 

form the consolidated figures for the corresponding
period and portion of the preceding fiscal year and

(C) a consolidated statement of cash flows of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries for the portion of the fiscal year ending with such quarterly
fiscal period, setting forth in comparative form the consolidated figures
for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year,

it being agreed that (1) delivery of such financial statements shall be deemed to be
a representation by the Borrower that such financial statements fairly present, in
conformity with GAAP, the consolidated financial position of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries as of the close of such quarterly fiscal period and their consolidated
results of operations and cash flows for the portion of the fiscal year ending at
the end of such quarterly fiscal period (subject to normal year-end adjustments) and
(2) the Borrower may satisfy the requirements of this Section 5.01(a)(i) by filing
its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the SEC;  provided  that such Form 10-Q
satisfies the foregoing requirements of this paragraph (i);

(ii) as soon as available and in any event within 90 days after the close of each
fiscal year of the Borrower, copies of:

(A) a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries
as of the close of such fiscal year, and

(B) consolidated statements of operations and cash flows of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year,

in each case setting forth in comparative form the consolidated figures for the two
preceding fiscal years, all in reasonable detail and accompanied by a report thereon
of a firm of independent public accountants of recognized national standing selected
by the Borrower to the effect that the consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of the fiscal year being reported on and
their consolidated results of operations and cash flows for said year in conformity
with GAAP and that the examination of such accountants in connection with such
financial statements has been conducted in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, it being agreed that the Borrower may satisfy the requirements
of this Section 5.01(a)(ii) by filing its Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC;
 provided  that such Form 10-K (including the exhibits filed therewith)
satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (ii);

(iii) promptly upon receipt thereof, one copy of each interim or special audit made by
independent accountants of the books of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any management
letter received from such accountants, in all cases, material to the financial condition or
operations of the Borrower or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole;

(iv) promptly upon their becoming available, one copy of each financial statement,
report, notice or proxy statement sent by the Borrower to stockholders generally and of each
regular or periodic report, and any registration statement or prospectus (other than those
on Form S-8) filed by the Borrower or any Subsidiary with any securities exchange or the SEC
or any successor agency;  provided  that the filing of such document with the SEC
shall satisfy such requirement, and copies of any orders in any proceedings to which the
Borrower or any of its

24 

Subsidiaries is a party, issued by any governmental agency, Federal
or state, having jurisdiction over the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, which orders are
material to the financial condition or operations of the Borrower or the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries taken as a whole;

(v) promptly upon the occurrence thereof, written notice of (A) a Reportable Event with
respect to any Plan; (B) the institution of any steps by the Borrower, any ERISA Affiliate,
the PBGC or any other person to terminate any Plan if such termination were to result in a
liability of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to the PBGC in an amount which could materially
and adversely affect the condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower or of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (C) the institution of any steps by the
Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate to withdraw from any Plan or any Multiemployer Plan if such
withdrawal would result in a liability of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in an amount which
could materially and adversely affect the condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower
or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (D) a  prohibited transaction 
within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA (which has not been exempted under or pursuant to
Section 408 of ERISA) in connection with any Plan if such  prohibited transaction  would
result in a liability of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in an amount which could materially
and adversely affect the condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower or of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (E) any increase in the contingent liability
of the Borrower or any Subsidiary with respect to any post-retirement welfare liability in
an amount that could have a Material Adverse Effect; or (F) the taking of any action by, or
the threat in writing of the taking of any action by, the Internal Revenue Service, the
Department of Labor or the PBGC with respect to any of the foregoing;

(vi) within the periods provided in paragraphs (i) and (ii) above, a certificate of an
authorized financial officer of the Borrower stating that such officer has reviewed the
provisions of this Agreement and (A) setting forth the information and computations (in
sufficient detail) required in order to establish whether the Borrower was in compliance
with the requirements of Sections 5.02(a) and 5.03 at the end of the period covered by the
financial statements then being furnished and (B) stating whether there existed as of the
date of such financial statements and whether, to the best of such officer s knowledge,
there exists on the date of the certificate or existed at any time during the period covered
by such financial statements any Default and, if any such condition or event exists on the
date of the certificate, specifying the nature and period of existence thereof and the
action the Borrower is taking and proposes to take with respect thereto;  provided ,
that the email of such certificate in accordance with Section 7.01(b) shall satisfy the
delivery requirements of this paragraph;

(vii) within the period provided in paragraph (ii) above, a certificate of the
accountants who render an opinion with respect to such financial statements, stating (A)
that they have reviewed this Agreement, and (B) whether, in making their audit, such
accountants have become aware of any Default under Section 6.01 insofar as any such terms or
provisions pertain to or involve accounting matters or determinations, and if any such
condition or event then exists specifying the nature and period of existence thereof;
 provided , that the email of such certificate in accordance with Section 7.01(b)
shall satisfy the delivery requirements of this paragraph;

(viii) within five days after any officer of the Borrower obtains knowledge of any
Default, if such Default is then continuing, a certificate of the chief financial officer or
the chief accounting officer of the Borrower setting forth the details thereof and the
action which the Borrower is taking and proposes to take with respect thereto;

25 

(ix) promptly upon any change in the Public Debt Rating, a notice reporting such change
and stating the date on which such change was publicly announced by the relevant rating
agency; and

(x) from time to time such additional information regarding the financial position or
business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as the Lender may reasonably request.

SECTION 5.02  Negative Covenants . So long as any Revolving Credit shall remain unpaid
or the Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will not:

(a)  Liens, Etc . Create, incur or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries
to create, incur or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether
now owned or hereafter acquired, or upon any income or profits therefrom, or acquire or agree to
acquire, or permit any Subsidiary to acquire, any property or assets upon conditional sales
agreements or other title retention devices, except:

(i) Liens for property taxes and assessments or governmental charges or levies and
Liens securing claims or demands of mechanics and materialmen,  provided  that payment
thereof is not at the time required by Section 5.01(a) or (b);

(ii) any Lien of or resulting from any judgment or award;  provided  that either
(A) the amount secured thereby does not exceed $75,000,000 or (B) if the amount secured
thereby does exceed $75,000,000, the time for the appeal or petition for rehearing of such
judgment or award shall not have expired, or the Borrower or a Subsidiary shall in good
faith be prosecuting an appeal or proceeding for a review thereof, and execution of such
judgment or award shall be stayed pending such appeal or proceeding for review;

(iii) Liens incidental to the conduct of business conducted by the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business or the ownership of properties and assets
owned by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including Liens in connection with worker s
compensation, unemployment insurance and other like laws, warehousemen s and attorneys 
liens and statutory landlords  liens) and Liens to secure the performance of bids, tenders
or trade contracts, or to secure statutory obligations, surety or appeal bonds or other
Liens of like general nature incurred in the ordinary course of business of the Borrower and
its Subsidiaries and not in connection with the borrowing of money,  provided  in each
case, the obligation secured is not overdue or, if overdue, is being contested in good faith
by appropriate actions or proceedings;

(iv) survey exceptions or encumbrances, encroachments, easements or reservations, or
rights of others for rights-of-way, utilities and other similar purposes, zoning
restrictions, declarations of covenants, conditions and restrictions, other title exceptions
or other restrictions as to the use of real properties, which are necessary or appropriate
in the good faith judgment of the Borrower for the conduct of the business of the Borrower
and its Subsidiaries and which, individually or in the aggregate, do not in any event
materially impair their use in the operation of the business of the Borrower or of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole;

(v) Liens securing Indebtedness of a Subsidiary to the Borrower or to another
Subsidiary;

(vi) Liens existing as of the Effective Date and reflected in Schedule 5.02(a) hereto,
including any renewals, extensions or replacements of any such Lien,  provided  that:

26 

(A) no additional property is encumbered in connection with any such
renewal, extension or replacement of any such Lien; and

(B) there is no increase in the aggregate principal amount of Debt
secured by any such Lien from that which was outstanding or permitted to be
outstanding with respect to such Lien as of the Effective Date or the date
of such renewal, extension or replacement, whichever is greater;

(vii) Liens incurred after the Effective Date given to secure the payment of the
purchase price and/or other direct costs incurred in connection with the acquisition,
construction, improvement or rehabilitation of assets including Liens incurred by the
Borrower or any Subsidiary securing Debt incurred in connection with industrial development
bond and pollution control financings, including Liens existing on such assets at the time
of acquisition thereof or at the time of acquisition by the Borrower or a Subsidiary of any
business entity (including a Subsidiary) then owning such assets, whether or not such
existing Liens were given to secure the payment of the purchase price of the assets to which
they attach,  provided  that (A) except in the case of Liens existing on assets at the
time of acquisition of a Subsidiary then owning such assets, the Lien shall be created
within twelve (12) months of the later of the acquisition of, or the completion of the
construction or improvement in respect of, such assets and shall attach solely to the assets
acquired, purchased, or financed, or (B) except in the case of Liens existing on assets at
the time of acquisition of a Subsidiary then owning such assets or Liens in connection with
industrial development bond or pollution control financings, at the time of the incurrence
of such
Lien, the aggregate amount remaining unpaid on all Debt secured by Liens on such assets
whether or not assumed by the Borrower or a Subsidiary shall not exceed an amount equal to
75% of the lesser of the total purchase price or fair market value, at the time such Debt is
incurred, of such assets (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the
Borrower;

(viii) Liens arising from the sale or transfer of accounts receivable and notes of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries,  provided  that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall
receive adequate consideration therefor;

(ix) Liens on notes or accounts receivable sold or transferred in a transaction which
is accounted for as a true sale under GAAP;

(x) Liens securing Debt, to the extent that such Liens are not otherwise permitted by
this Section 5.02(a),  provided  that immediately after giving effect to the
incurrence of any such Lien, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding
Debt secured by Liens permitted solely by reason of this Sections 5.02(a)(x) shall not
exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets; and

(xi) Liens incurred in connection with any renewals, extensions or refundings of any
Debt secured by Liens described in Sections 5.02(a)(vii), (viii), (ix) or (x),
 provided  that there is no increase in the aggregate principal amount of Debt secured
thereby and no additional property is encumbered.

In the event that any property of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries is subjected to a lien in
violation of this Section 5.02(a), but no other provision of this Agreement (the Indebtedness
secured by such lien being referred to as   Prohibited Secured Indebtedness  ), such
violation shall not constitute an Event of Default hereunder if the Borrower, substantially
simultaneously with the incurrence of such lien, makes or causes to be made a provision whereby the
Revolving Credit Note will be secured equally and ratably with all Prohibited Secured Indebtedness
and delivers to the Lender an opinion to that effect, and, in any case, the

27 

Revolving Credit Note
shall have the benefit, to the full extent that, and with such priority as, the Lender may be
entitled to under applicable law, of an equitable lien to secure the Revolving Credit Note on such
property of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries that secures Prohibited Secured Indebtedness. The
opinion referred to in the preceding sentence shall be addressed to the Lender, shall contain such
qualifications and limitations as are reasonably acceptable to the Lender and shall be delivered by
counsel of nationally recognized standing selected by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Lender.
Such counsel shall be deemed to be satisfactory to the Lender unless, during the 15 day period
after the Lender has received written notice identifying such counsel, the Lender shall have
objected to such selection in writing to the Borrower.

Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.02(a) including, without
limitation, the terms and provisions of the preceding paragraph of this Section 5.02(a), the
Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, create or incur, or suffer to be
incurred or to exist, any Lien (other than Liens described in Section 5.02(a)(i) through (iv),
inclusive) upon any land, property or buildings (or any interest therein) described as Special
Unencumbered Property in Schedule 5.02(a)(xii) hereto.

(b)  Consolidations, Mergers and Sales of Assets . Consolidate or merge with or into
any other Person or sell, lease or otherwise transfer, directly or indirectly, all or substantially
all of its assets to any other Person;  provided  that the Borrower may merge with another
Person if immediately after giving effect to such merger (x) no Default shall exist, and (y) the
Borrower is the surviving entity.

(c)  Accounting Changes . Make or permit, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make or
permit, any change in accounting policies or reporting practices, except as required or permitted
by GAAP.

(d)  Change in Nature of Business . Engage, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to
engage, in any business if, as a result, the primary business, taken on a consolidated basis, which
would then be engaged in by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries would be substantially changed from
the business of the manufacture of capital equipment for the electronics and solar industries.

(e)  Use of Proceeds . Use proceeds of the Revolving Credit Advances made under this
Agreement, directly or indirectly, for the purpose, whether immediate, incidental or ultimate, of
buying or carrying Margin Stock unless, at all times when any such proceeds are used to buy or
carry Margin Stock, not more than 25% of the value (as determined by any reasonable method) of the
assets (either of the Borrower only or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated
basis) which are subject to any restriction in Sections 5.02(a) or 5.02(b) consists of Margin
Stock.

(f)  Transactions with Affiliates . Enter into or be a party to, or permit any
Subsidiary to enter into or be a party to, any transaction or arrangement with any Affiliate
(including, without limitation, the purchase from, sale to or exchange of property with, or the
rendering of any service by or for, any Affiliate), except in the ordinary course of and pursuant
to the reasonable requirements of the Borrower s or such Subsidiary s (as the case may be) business
and upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than would
be obtained in a comparable arm s-length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate.

SECTION 5.03  Financial Covenant . So long as any Revolving Credit Advance shall remain
unpaid or the Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will maintain as of the

28 

last
day of each fiscal quarter, determined on the basis of the most recently completed four consecutive
fiscal quarters ending on such day, a Consolidated Leverage Ratio of not greater than *** .

ARTICLE VI

EVENTS OF DEFAULT

SECTION 6.01  Events of Default . If any of the following events ( Events of Default )
shall occur and be continuing:

(a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Revolving Credit Advance when due or
shall fail to pay any interest, fee, or other amount payable hereunder within three Business Days
or five days after it becomes due, whichever is later;

(b) any representation, warranty, certification or statement made by the Borrower in this
Agreement or in any certificate, financial statement or other document delivered pursuant to this
Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made (or deemed made);

(c) the Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement
contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed (other than clause (a) above)
if such failure shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been
given to the Borrower by the Lender;

(d) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment in respect of any Material
Financial Obligations when due or within any applicable grace period;

(e) any event or condition shall occur which results in the acceleration of the maturity of
any Material Debt or enables (after the lapse of any cure period and the receipt of any required
notices) the holder of such Debt or any Person acting on such holder s behalf to accelerate the
maturity thereof;

(f) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall commence a voluntary case or other proceeding seeking
liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to itself or its debts under any
bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or seeking the appointment
of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any substantial
part of its property, or shall consent to any such relief or to the appointment of or taking
possession by any such official in an involuntary case or other proceeding commenced against it, or
shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall fail generally to pay its
debts as they become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or
shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the foregoing;  provided  that no event
otherwise constituting an Event of Default under this clause (f) shall be an Event of Default if
the total assets of all entities with respect to which an event has occurred which would otherwise
have constituted an Event of Default under this clause (f) or clause (g) do not exceed $75,000,000
in the aggregate;

(g) an involuntary case or other proceeding shall be commenced against the Borrower or any
Subsidiary seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to it or its debts
under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or seeking the

***  
       
      information has been omitted and filed
separately with the Commission. Confidential treatment has been requested with
respect to the omitted portions.  

29 

appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any
substantial part of its property, and such involuntary case or other proceeding shall remain
undismissed and unstayed for a period of 60 days; or an order for relief shall be entered against
the Borrower or any Subsidiary under the federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect;
 provided  that no event otherwise constituting an Event of Default under this clause (g)
shall be an Event of Default if the total assets of all entities with respect to which an event has
occurred which would otherwise have constituted an Event of Default under clause (f) or this clause
(g) do not exceed $75,000,000 in the aggregate;

(h) any ERISA Affiliate shall fail to pay when due (or in the case of an ERISA Affiliate
acquired by the Borrower or a Subsidiary after the due date thereof, within 30 days after such
ERISA Affiliate is so acquired) an amount or amounts aggregating in excess of $75,000,000 which it
shall have become liable to pay under Title IV of ERISA; or notice of intent to terminate a
Material Plan shall be filed under Title IV of ERISA by any ERISA Affiliate, any plan administrator
or any combination of the foregoing; or the PBGC shall institute proceedings under Title IV of
ERISA to terminate, to impose liability (other than for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) in
respect of, or to cause a trustee to be appointed to administer any Material Plan; or there shall
occur a complete or partial withdrawal from, or a default, within the meaning of Section 4219(c)(5)
of ERISA, with respect to, one or more Multiemployer Plans which could cause one or more ERISA
Affiliates to incur a current payment obligation in excess of $50,000,000;

(i) final judgments or orders for the payment of money in excess of $75,000,000 in the
aggregate (excluding amounts with respect to which a financially sound and reputable insurer has
admitted liability) shall be rendered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary and such
judgments or orders shall continue unsatisfied and unstayed for a period of 30 consecutive days; or

(j) either (i) any person or group of persons (within the meaning of Section 13 or 14 of the
Exchange Act) shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3
promulgated by the SEC under said Act) of 30% or more of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock of
the Borrower; or (ii) during any period of 12 consecutive calendar months, commencing before or
after the date of this Agreement, individuals who were directors of the Borrower on the first day
of such period (the   Initial Directors  ) shall cease for any reason to constitute a
majority of the board of directors of the Borrower unless the Persons replacing such individuals
were nominated or elected by a majority of the directors (x) who were Initial Directors at the time
of such nomination or election and/or (y) who were nominated or elected by a majority of directors
who were Initial Directors at the time of such nomination or election;

then, and in any such event, the Lender (i) may, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation
of the Lender to make Revolving Credit Advances to be terminated, whereupon the same
shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) may, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Revolving Credit
Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith
due and payable, whereupon the Revolving Credit Advances, all such interest and all such amounts
shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further
notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower;  provided ,
 however , that in the case of any of the Events of Default specified in clause (f) or (g)
above with respect to the Borrower, without any notice to the Borrower or any other act by the
Lender, the Commitment shall thereupon terminate and the Revolving Credit Advances (together with
accrued interest thereon) shall immediately become and be due and payable, without presentment,
demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the
Borrower.

30 

ARTICLE VII

MISCELLANEOUS

SECTION 7.01  Amendments, Etc . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this
Agreement or the Revolving Credit Note, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom,
shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Borrower and
the Lender, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and
for the specific purpose for which given.

SECTION 7.02  Notices, Etc . (a) Except to the extent set forth in Section 7.02(b) and
in the proviso to this Section 7.02(a), all notices and other communications provided under this
Agreement shall be in writing (including telecopier or email communication) and mailed, telecopied,
emailed or delivered (x) if to the Borrower, at its address at 3050 Bowers Avenue, Santa Clara,
California 95054, Attention: Robert Friess; Telecopier: 408-986-7825; email:
Robert_Friess@amat.com; provided, that if such notice is to be delivered pursuant to Section 6.01,
7.05, 7.01 or 7.07, then such notice shall be delivered by mail or express delivery (and not
delivered electronically or by telecopy) at the address above to the Attention of: Robert Friess,
Treasurer (or his successor) and Joseph Sweeney, Group Vice President, Legal Affairs and
Intellectual Property (or his successor), or at such other address as shall be designated by
Borrower in a written notice to the other parties; and (y) if to the Lender, at its Domestic
Lending Office specified opposite its name on Schedule I hereto or at such other address as shall
be designated by such party in a
written notice to the Borrower, provided that materials required to be delivered pursuant to
Sections 5.01(g)(vi) and (vii) shall be delivered as specified in Section 7.02(b) or as otherwise
specified to the Borrower by the Lender from time to time. All such notices and communications
shall, when mailed, telecopied or e-mailed, be effective when deposited in the mails, telecopied,
or confirmed by e-mail, respectively, except that notices and communications to the Lender pursuant
to Article II or III shall not be effective until received by the Lender. Delivery by telecopier
of an executed counterpart of any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the
Revolving Credit Note or of any Exhibit hereto to be executed and delivered hereunder shall be
effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof.

(b) So long as Citibank or any of its Affiliates is the Lender, the Borrower hereby agrees
that, unless otherwise requested by the Lender, it will provide to the Lender all information,
documents and other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Lender pursuant to this
Agreement, including, without limitation, all notices, financial statements, financial and other
reports, certificates and other required information materials, but excluding any such
communication that (i) relates to a request for an amendment or for a new, or a conversion of an
existing, borrowing or other extension of credit (including any election of an interest rate or
interest period relating thereto), (ii) relates to the payment of any principal or other amount due
under this Agreement prior to the scheduled date therefor, (iii) provides notice of any default or
event of default under this Agreement, (iv) is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition
precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement and/or any borrowing or other extension of credit
hereunder or (v) initiates or responds to legal process (all such non-excluded information being
referred to herein collectively as the   Communications  ) by transmitting the Communications
in an electronic/soft medium (provided such Communications contain any required signatures) in a
format acceptable to the Lender to oploanswebadmin@citigroup.com (or such other e-mail address
designated by the Lender from time to time).

Each party hereto agrees that any electronic communication referred to in this Section 7.02(b)
shall be deemed delivered upon the posting of a record of such communication (properly addressed to
such party at the e-mail address provided to the Lender) as  sent  in the e-mail system of the
sending party or, in the case of any such communication to the Lender, upon the posting of a record
of

31 

such communication as  received  in the e-mail system of the Lender; provided that if such
communication is not so received by the Lender during the normal business hours (Eastern Standard
Time) of the Lender, such communication shall be deemed delivered at the opening of business on the
next Business Day for the Lender.

SECTION 7.03  No Waiver; Remedies . No failure on the part of the Lender to exercise,
and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under the Revolving Credit Note shall operate as
a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or
further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are
cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.

SECTION 7.04  Costs and Expenses . (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all out-of pocket
expenses of the Lender, including reasonable fees and disbursements of special counsel for the
Lender, in connection with the preparation of this Agreement (subject to any limits agreed upon in
writing by the Borrower and the Lender), any waiver or consent hereunder or any amendment hereof or
any Default or alleged Default hereunder and (ii) if an Event of Default occurs, all out-of pocket
expenses incurred by the Lender, including (without duplication) the reasonable fees and
disbursements of outside counsel and the allocated cost of inside
counsel, in connection with such Event of Default and collection, bankruptcy, insolvency and
other enforcement proceedings resulting therefrom.

(b) The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Lender and each of its Affiliates
and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an   Indemnified
Party  ) from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses
(including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) that may be incurred by or
asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection
with or by reason of (including, without limitation, in connection with any investigation,
litigation or proceeding or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) (i) the Revolving
Credit Note, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed
use of the proceeds of the Revolving Credit Advances or (ii) the actual or alleged presence of
Hazardous Substances on any property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any
Environmental Action relating in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, except to the
extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense resulted from such Indemnified Party s gross
negligence or willful misconduct. In the case of an investigation, litigation or other proceeding
to which the indemnity in this Section 7.04(b) applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether
or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Borrower, its directors,
shareholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person or any Indemnified Party is
otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated.
The Borrower also agrees not to assert any claim for special, indirect, consequential or punitive
damages against the Lender, any of its Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers,
employees, attorneys and agents, on any theory of liability, arising out of or otherwise relating
to the Revolving Credit Note, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the
actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Revolving Credit Advances.

(c) If any payment of principal with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advance or Adjusted CD
Rate Advance, or any such Revolving Credit Advance is Converted to a different Type of Revolving
Credit Advance (pursuant to Section 2.07(d) or (e), 2.09 or 2.11, acceleration of the maturity of
the Revolving Credit Advances pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason) other than on the
last day of the Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Advance, or if the Borrower fails to
borrow, prepay, Convert or continue any such Revolving Credit Advance after notice has been given
to the Lender in accordance with Section 2.02(a), 2.05, 2.08 or 2.09, the Borrower shall reimburse
the Lender for any resulting loss or expense (with interest if appropriate) incurred by it or by an
existing or prospective assignee or participant in the related Revolving Credit Advance, including
(without limitation) any loss

32 

incurred in obtaining, liquidation or employing deposits from third
parties, but excluding loss of margin for the period after any such payment or failure to borrow,
prepay, Convert or continue;  provided  that such Lender shall have delivered to the Borrower
a certificate as to the amount of such loss or expense, which certificate shall show in reasonable
detail the basis for calculating such amount and shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest
error.

(d) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower hereunder, the
agreements and obligations of the Borrower contained in Sections 2.10, 2.13 and 7.04 shall survive
the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the
Revolving Credit Note.

SECTION 7.05  Right of Set-off . Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of
any Event of Default and (ii) the declaration of the Revolving Credit Advances due and payable
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01, the Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby
authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off
and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand,
provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by the Lender
or such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the
obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and the Revolving Credit
Note, without limitation of clauses (i) and (ii) above, whether or not the Lender shall have made
any demand under this Agreement or the Revolving Credit Note and although such obligations may be
unmatured. The Lender agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such set-off and
application, provided that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such
set-off and application. The rights of the Lender and its Affiliates under this Section are in
addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) that
the Lender and its Affiliates may have.

SECTION 7.06  Binding Effect . This Agreement shall become effective (other than
Section 2.01, which shall only become effective upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set
forth in Section 3.01) when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Lender and
thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower and the Lender and their
respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its
rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of the Lender.

SECTION 7.07  Confidentiality . (a) The Lender agrees (on behalf of itself and each of
its Affiliates, directors, employees and representatives) to use reasonable precautions to keep
confidential, in accordance with safe and sound banking practices, any non-public information
supplied to it by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement after such information is identified by
the Borrower as being confidential, provided that nothing herein shall limit the disclosure of any
such information (i) to the extent required by statute, rule, regulation or judicial process,
provided that the Borrower is given prompt written notice (to the extent permitted by law) that
such disclosure is required, (ii) to counsel for the Lender, (iii) to bank examiners, auditors or
accountants, (iv) in connection with any litigation to which the Lender is a party, provided that
the Borrower has been given prompt prior written notice (to the extent permitted by law) of such
proposed disclosure or (v) to any assignee or participant (or prospective assignee or participant)
so long as such assignee or participant (or prospective assignee or participant), or any actual or
proposed contractual counterparty (or its advisors) to any securitization, hedge, or other
derivative transaction relating to the parties  obligations hereunder, agrees in writing to be
bound by the terms of this Section 7.07.

(b) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Borrower, and the Lender may disclose
to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the U.S. tax treatment and tax structure of
the Agreement and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are

33 

provided to a Borrower or the Lender, as the case may be, relating to such U.S. tax treatment and
tax structure.

SECTION 7.08  Governing Law . This Agreement and the Revolving Credit Note shall be
governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

SECTION 7.09  Execution in Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in any number
of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so
executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and
the same agreement. Delivery of an executed
counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier or electronic mail (in pdf
format) shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.

SECTION 7.10  Jurisdiction, Etc . (a) Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably
and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any
New York State court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and
any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to
this Agreement or the Revolving Credit Note, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and
each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect
of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such New York State court or,
to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court. The Borrower hereby further irrevocably
consents to the service of process in any action or proceeding in such courts by the mailing
thereof by any parties hereto by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the Borrower at
its address specified pursuant to Section 7.02. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final
judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other
jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law, provided that this
sentence shall not limit the right of any party hereto to appeal any judgment. Nothing in this
Agreement shall affect any right that any party may otherwise have to bring any action or
proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Revolving Credit Note in the courts of any
jurisdiction.

(b) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent
it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying
of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the
Revolving Credit Note in any New York State or federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby
irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to
the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.

SECTION 7.11  Patriot Act Notice . The Lender hereby notifies the Borrower that
pursuant to the requirements of the Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record
information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the
Borrower and other information that will allow the Lender to identify the Borrower in accordance
with the Patriot Act. The Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, provide, to
the extent commercially reasonable, such information and take such actions as are reasonably
requested by the Lender in order to assist the Lender in maintaining compliance with the Patriot
Act.

SECTION 7.12  Assignments . The Lender may assign, in whole, not in part, all its
rights and obligations under this Agreement and the Note, including, without limitation, the
Commitment, Advances owing to it and the Note, with five (5) days prior written notice to the
Borrower;  provided ,  however , each assignment shall be made to an Eligible Assignee
and pursuant to an assignment and assumption agreement in form reasonably acceptable to the Lender,
such Eligible Assignee and the Borrower. Upon such execution, delivery, and acceptance, from and
after the effective date specified in each assignment agreement, (x) the assignee thereunder shall
be a party hereto and, to the extent that

34 

rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it
pursuant to such agreement, have the rights and obligations of the Lender hereunder and (y) the
Lender assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been
assigned by it pursuant to such agreement, relinquish its rights and be released from its
obligations under this Agreement and, the original Lender shall cease to be a party hereto.

SECTION 7.13  Waiver of Jury Trial . Each of the Borrower and the Lender hereby
irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim (whether
based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Revolving
Credit Note or the actions of the Lender in the negotiation, administration, performance or
enforcement thereof.

35 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their
respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. 

By   
     /s/ Nancy H. Handel

Name:   
     Nancy H. Handel  

Title:   
     Chief Financial Officer  

By   
                       /s/ Robert M. Friess

Name:   
     Robert M. Friess  

Title:   
     Vice President, Treasurer  

CITICORP USA, INC. 

By   
     /s/ Kathryn D. Song

Name:   
     Kathryn D. Song  

Title:   
     Vice President  

CREDIT AGREEMENT SIGNATURE PAGE

SCHEDULE I 

COMMITMENTS AND APPLICABLE LENDING OFFICES 

EXHIBIT
A - FORM OF 
REVOLVING CREDIT 
PROMISSORY NOTE

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, APPLIED MATERIALS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the
  Borrower  ), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of CITICORP USA, INC. (the
  Lender  ) for the account of its Applicable Lending Office on the Termination Date (each as
defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the principal sum of U.S.$100,000,000 or, if
less, the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances made by the Lender to the
Borrower pursuant to the 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of September 14, 2006, among the
Borrower and the Lender (as amended or modified from time to time, the   Credit Agreement  
the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined) outstanding on such date.

The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Credit
Advance from the date of such Revolving Credit Advance until such principal amount is paid in full,
at such interest rates, and payable at such times, as are specified in the Credit Agreement.

Both principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the United States of America as
provided in the Credit Agreement, in same day funds. Each Revolving Credit Advance owing to the
Lender by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and all payments made on account of
principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on
the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.

This Promissory Note is the Revolving Credit Note referred to in, and is entitled to the
benefits of, the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the
making of Revolving Credit Advances by the Lender to the Borrower from time to time in an aggregate
amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the U.S. dollar amount first above mentioned, the
indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Revolving Credit Advance being evidenced by
this Promissory Note and (ii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the
happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to
the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. 

By   

Title:  

A-1 

EXHIBIT B
- - FORM OF 
 NOTICE OF
REVOLVING 
 CREDIT ADVANCE

Citicorp USA, Inc.

Two Penns Way 
New Castle, Delaware 19720

Date 

Attention: Bank Loan Syndications Department

Ladies and Gentlemen:

The undersigned, APPLIED MATERIALS, INC., refers to the 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of
September 14, 2006, (as amended or modified from time to time, the   Credit Agreement  , the
terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned and you and
hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the
undersigned hereby requests a Revolving Credit Advance under the Credit Agreement, and in that
connection sets forth below the information relating to such Revolving Credit Advance (the
  Proposed Revolving Credit Advance  ) as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit
Agreement:

(i) The Business Day of the Proposed Revolving Credit Advance is                       , 200_.

(ii) The Type of Revolving Credit Advances is  Base Rate Advances   Eurodollar Rate
Advances   Adjusted CD Rate Advances .

(iii) The amount of the Proposed Revolving Credit Advance is $                      .

(iv) The initial Interest Period for each  Eurodollar Rate Advance   Adjusted CD Rate
Advance  is    month s . 

The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof,
and will be true on the date of the Proposed Revolving Credit Advance:

(A) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit
Agreement (except the representations set forth in subsection (d)(i) thereof and in
subsection (e)(i) thereof) are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed
Revolving Credit Advance and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on
and as of such date; and

(B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed
Revolving Credit Advance or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes
a Default.

Very truly yours, 

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. 

By   

Title:  

B-1 

</EX-10.39>

<EX-10.40>
 6
 f25754exv10w40.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.40

exv10w40 

Exhibit 10.40 

GOLDMAN
SACHS   CO. | 85 BROAD STREET | NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10004 | TEL: 212-902-1000

Opening Transaction

This master confirmation ( Master Confirmation ) dated as September 18, 2006, is intended to
supplement the terms and provisions of certain Transactions (each, a  Transaction ) entered into
from time to time between Goldman, Sachs   Co. ( GS Co. ) and Applied Materials, Inc.
( Counterparty ). This Master Confirmation, taken alone, is neither a commitment by either party
to enter into any Transaction nor evidence of a Transaction. The terms of any particular
Transaction shall be set forth in a Supplemental Confirmation in the form of Annex A hereto, which
references this Master Confirmation (the  Supplemental Confirmation ). This Master Confirmation
and each Supplemental Confirmation together shall constitute a  Confirmation  as referred to in the
Agreement specified below.

The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the
 Equity Definitions ), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.,
are incorporated into this Master Confirmation. This Master Confirmation and each Supplemental
Confirmation evidence a complete binding agreement between the Counterparty and GS Co. as to the
subject matter and terms of each Transaction to which this Master Confirmation and the related
Supplemental Confirmation relate and shall supersede all prior or contemporaneous written or oral
communications with respect thereto.

This Master Confirmation and each Supplemental Confirmation supplement, form a part of, and
are subject to an agreement in the form of the 1992 ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency-Cross
Border) (the  Agreement ) as if GS Co. and Counterparty had executed the Agreement on the date of
this Master Confirmation (but without any Schedule except for (i) the election of Loss and Second
Method, New York law (without regard to the conflicts of law principles) as the governing law and
US Dollars ( USD ) as the Termination Currency, (ii) the election that subparagraph (ii) of Section
2(c) will not apply to Transactions and (iii) the replacement of the word  third  in the last line
of Section 5(a)(i) with the word  first ).

All provisions contained or incorporated by reference in the Agreement shall govern this
Master Confirmation and each Supplemental Confirmation relating to a Transaction except as
expressly modified herein or in the related Supplemental Confirmation.

If, in relation to any Transaction to which this Master Confirmation and related Supplemental
Confirmation relate, there is any inconsistency between the Agreement, this Master Confirmation,
any Supplemental Confirmation and the Equity Definitions, the following will prevail for purposes
of such Transaction in the order of precedence indicated: (i) such Supplemental Confirmation; (ii)
this Master Confirmation; (iii) the Agreement; and (iv) the Equity Definitions.

1. On the fifth Clearance System Business Day following the Trade Date for each Transaction,
GS Co. will deliver to Counterparty a number of Shares equal to the Number of Shares for the
relevant Transaction, and Counterparty will pay to GS Co. cash in immediately available funds in an
amount to be specified in the Supplemental Confirmation (the  Initial Purchase Price ) equal to the
product of the Initial Share Price (as set forth below) and the Number of Shares. Each Transaction
is intended to be in substance and effect an adjustment to the Initial Purchase Price. Solely for
the purposes of the Equity Definitions, each Transaction

constitutes a Share Forward Transaction. Set forth below are the terms and conditions which,
together with the terms and conditions set forth in each Supplemental Confirmation (in respect of
each relevant Transaction), shall govern each such Transaction.

General Terms: 

Trade Date:

For each Transaction, as set forth in the Supplemental Confirmation. 

Seller:

Counterparty 

Buyer:

GS Co. 

Shares:

Common Stock, $0.01 par value of Counterparty, (Ticker: AMAT) 

Number of Shares:

For each Transaction, as set forth in the Supplemental Confirmation. 

Initial Share Price

For each Transaction, as set forth in the Supplemental Confirmation, to be the
Relevant Price as of the Trade Date. 

Forward Price:

For each Transaction, the Initial Share Price for such Transaction. 

Prepayment:

Not Applicable 

Variable Obligation:

Not Applicable 

Exchange:

NASDAQ Global Select Market 

Related Exchange(s):

All Exchanges 

Market Disruption Event:

The definition of  Market Disruption Event  in Section 6.3(a) of the Equity
Definitions is hereby amended by replacing the words  at any time during the
one-hour period that ends at the relevant Valuation Time  in the third line
thereof with the words  at any time on any Scheduled Trading Day during the
Valuation Period or  after the word  material . 

Counterparty Additional 
Payment Amount:

For each Transaction, as set forth in the Supplemental Confirmation. 

Valuation: 

Valuation Period:

Each Scheduled Trading Day during the period commencing on and including the
first succeeding Scheduled Trading Day following the Trade Date, to and
including the Valuation Date (but excluding any day(s) on which the Valuation
Period is suspended in accordance with Section 5 herein). 

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Equity Definitions, to the
extent that any Scheduled Trading Day in the Valuation Period is a Disrupted
Day, the Calculation Agent may postpone the Valuation Date. In such event, the
Calculation Agent must determine whether (i) such Disrupted Day is a Disrupted
Day in full, in which case such Disrupted 

-2- 

Day shall not be included for purposes
of determining the Settlement Price, or (ii) such Disrupted Day is a Disrupted
Day only in part, in which case the VWAP Price for such Disrupted Day shall be
determined by the Calculation Agent based on Rule 10b-18 eligible transactions
in the Shares on such Disrupted Day effected before the relevant Market
Disruption Event occurred and/or after the relevant Market Disruption Event
ended, and the weighting of the VWAP Prices for the relevant Scheduled Trading
Days during the Valuation Period shall be adjusted by the Calculation Agent for
purposes of determining the Settlement Price, with such adjustments based on,
among other factors, the duration of any Market Disruption Event and the volume,
historical trading patterns and price of the Shares. 

If a Disrupted Day occurs during the Valuation Period, and each of the nine
immediately following Scheduled Trading Days is a Disrupted Day, then the
Calculation Agent, in its reasonable discretion, may either (i) determine the
VWAP Price for such ninth Scheduled Trading Day and adjust the weighting of the
VWAP Prices for the relevant Scheduled Trading Days during the Valuation Period
as it deems appropriate for purposes of determining the Settlement Price based
on, among other factors, the duration of any Market Disruption Event and the
volume, historical trading patterns and price of the Shares or (ii) disregard
such day for purposes of determining the Settlement Price and further postpone
the Valuation Date as it deems appropriate to determine the VWAP Price. 

Valuation Date:

For each Transaction, the date set forth in the Supplemental Confirmation (as
the same may be postponed in accordance with the provisions hereof). 

Settlement Terms: 

Settlement Currency:

USD 

Settlement Method Election:

Applicable;  provided  that (a) Section 7.1 of the Equity Definitions is hereby
amended by deleting the word  Physical  in the sixth line thereof and replacing
it with the words  Net Share  and deleting the word  Physical  in the last line
thereof and replacing it with the word  Cash  and (b) in the event that GS Co.
would deliver to the Counterparty an amount of Shares under Net Share
Settlement, Cash Settlement shall be applicable in lieu of Net Share Settlement. 

Electing Party:

Counterparty 

Settlement Method Election Date:

The fifth Scheduled Trading Day immediately prior to the Valuation Date. 

Default Settlement Method:

Cash Settlement 

Forward Cash Settlement Amount:

An amount in the Settlement Currency equal to the sum of (a) the Number of
Shares multiplied by an amount equal to (i) the 

-3- 

Settlement Price  minus  (ii) the
Forward Price  plus  (b) the Counterparty Additional Payment Amount. 

Settlement Price:

The arithmetic mean of the VWAP Prices of the Shares for each Scheduled Trading
Day in the Valuation Period  minus  the Settlement Price Adjustment Amount. 

Settlement Price Adjustment Amount:

For each Transaction, as set forth in the Supplemental Confirmation. 

VWAP Price:

For any Exchange Business Day, as determined by the Calculation Agent based on
the NASDAQ Volume Weighted Average Price per Share for the regular trading
session (including any extensions thereof) for such Exchange Business Day
(without regard to pre-open or after hours trading outside of any regular
trading session for such Exchange Business Day), as published by Bloomberg at
4:15 p.m. New York time on such Exchange Business Day, on Bloomberg page  AMAT.Q
 Equity  AQR_SEC  (or any successor thereto). For purposes of calculating the
VWAP Price, the Calculation Agent will include only those trades that are
reported during the period of time during which Counterparty could purchase its
own shares under Rule 10b-18(b)(2), and pursuant to the conditions of Rule
10b-18(b)(3) each under the Exchange Act (as defined herein) (such trades,  Rule
10b-18 eligible transactions ). 

Counterparty s Contact Details
for Purpose of Giving Notice:

Telephone No.: 408-235 4880 
Facsimile No.: 408-563 4710 
Attention: Robert Friess 
Corporpate Treasury 

Mailing Address: 2881 Scott Blvd., M/S 2047 
P.O.Box 58039 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 

GS Co. s Contact Details for
Purpose of Giving Notice:

Telephone No.: (212) 902-8996 
Facsimile No.: (212) 902-0112 
Attention: Equity Operations: Options and Derivatives 

With a copy to: 
Tracey McCabe 
Equity Capital Markets 
One New York Plaza 
New York, NY 10004 
Telephone No.: (212) 357-0428 
Facsimile No.: (212) 902-3000 

Net Share Settlement: 

Net Share Settlement Procedures:

Net Share Settlement shall be made in accordance with the procedures attached
hereto as Annex B. 

-4- 

Net Share Settlement Price:

The Relevant Price on the Net Share Valuation Date, as reduced by the per Share
amount of the underwriting discount and/or commissions agreed to pursuant to the
equity underwriting agreement contemplated by the Net Share Settlement
Procedures. 

Valuation Time:

As provided in Section 6.1 of
the Equity Definitions;  provided  that Section 6.1
of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by inserting the words  Net Share
Valuation Date,  before the words  Valuation Date  in the first and third lines
thereof. 

Net Share Valuation Date:

The Exchange Business Day immediately following the Valuation Date. 

Net Share Settlement Date:

The third Exchange Business Day immediately following the Valuation Date. 

Reserved Shares:

Initially, 62,800,000 Shares. The Reserved Shares for each Transaction may be
increased or decreased in a Supplemental Confirmation. 

Relevant Price:

As provided in Section 1.23(b) of
the Equity Definitions;  provided  that Section
1.23(b) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by replacing each occurrence
therein of  the Valuation Date or Averaging Date, as the case may be,  with the
term  such day.  

Share Adjustments: 

Potential Adjustment Event:

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 11.2(e) of the Equity
Definitions, an Extraordinary Dividend shall not constitute a Potential
Adjustment Event. 

Extraordinary Dividend:

For any calendar quarter, any dividend or distribution on the Shares with an
ex-dividend date occurring during such calendar quarter (other than any dividend
or distribution of the type described in Section 11.2(e)(i) or Section
11.2(e)(ii)(A) or (B) of the Equity Definitions) (a  Dividend ) the amount or
value of which (as determined by the Calculation Agent), when aggregated with
the amount or value (as determined by the Calculation Agent) of any and all
previous Dividends with ex-dividend dates occurring in the same calendar
quarter, exceeds the Ordinary Dividend Amount. 

Ordinary Dividend Amount:

For each Transaction, as set forth in the Supplemental Confirmation. 

Method of Adjustment:

Calculation Agent Adjustment 

Extraordinary Events: 

Consequences of Merger Events: 

(a) Share-for-Share:

Calculation Agent Adjustment 

-5- 

(b) Share-for-Other:

Cancellation and Payment on that portion of the Other Consideration that
consists of cash; Calculation Agent Adjustment on the remainder of the Other
Consideration. 

(c) Share-for-Combined:

Component Adjustment 

Determining Party:

Calculation Agent 

Tender Offer:

Applicable 

Consequences of Tender Offers: 

(a) Share-for-Share:

Calculation Agent Adjustment 

(b) Share-for-Other:

Cancellation and Payment on that portion of the Other Consideration that
consists of cash; Calculation Agent Adjustment on the remainder of the Other
Consideration. 

(c) Share-for-Combined:

Component Adjustment 

Determining Party:

Calculation Agent 

Nationalization, Insolvency or Delisting:

Cancellation and Payment;
 provided  that in addition to the provisions of Section
12.6(a)(iii) of the Equity Definitions, it shall also constitute a Delisting if
the Exchange is located in the United States and the Shares are not immediately
re-listed, re-traded or re-quoted on any of the New York Stock Exchange, the
American Stock Exchange or The NASDAQ National Market (or their respective
successors); and if the Shares are immediately re-listed, re-traded or re-quoted
on any such exchange or quotation system, such exchange or quotation system
shall be deemed to be the Exchange. 

Additional Disruption Events: 

(a) Change in Law:

Applicable 

(b) Insolvency Filing:

Applicable 

(c) Loss of Stock Borrow:

Applicable;  provided  that Sections 12.9(a)(vii) and 12.9(b)(iv) of the Equity
Definitions are amended by deleting the words  at a rate equal to or less than
the Maximum Stock Loan Rate  and replacing them with  at a rate of return to the
stock borrower equal to or greater than zero . 

Hedging Party:

GS Co. 

Determining Party:

GS Co. 

Non-Reliance:

Applicable 

Agreements and Acknowledgements

Regarding Hedging Activities:

Applicable 

Additional Acknowledgements:

Applicable 

-6- 

Net Share Settlement Upon 
Early Termination:

Counterparty shall have the right, in its sole discretion, in lieu of making any
payment required to be made by it (the   Early Termination
Amount  ) (x) pursuant
to Sections 6(d) and 6(e) of the Agreement following the occurrence of an Early
Termination Date in respect of the Agreement or (y) pursuant to Section 12.7 or
12.9 of the Equity Definitions (except with respect to any portion of the
consideration for the Shares consisting of cash in the event of a Merger Event
or Tender Offer) following the occurrence of an Extraordinary Event, elect to
settle its obligation to pay the Early Termination Amount in Shares in
accordance with the terms, and subject to the conditions, for Net Share
Settlement herein by giving written notice to GS Co. of such election on the day
that the notice fixing an Early Termination Date is effective or the date on
which the Transaction(s) are cancelled or terminated pursuant to Article 12 of
the Equity Definitions (the  Cancellation Date ). If Counterparty elects Net
Share Settlement under such circumstances: (a) the Net Share Valuation Date
shall be (x) the date specified in the notice fixing an Early Termination Date,
which shall be either the Exchange Business Day that such notice is effective or
the first Exchange Business Day immediately following the Exchange Business Day
that such notice is effective or (y) the Cancellation Date, as the case may be,
(b) the Net Share Settlement Date shall be deemed to be the Exchange Business
Day immediately following the Early Termination Date or the Cancellation Date,
as the case may be and (c) all references to Forward Cash Settlement Amount in
Annex B hereto shall be deemed references to the Early Termination Amount or the
Cancellation Amount, as the case may be. 

Transfer:

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, GS Co. may assign,
transfer and set over all rights, title and interest, powers, privileges and
remedies of GS Co. under any Transaction, in whole or in part, to an affiliate
of GS Co. that is guaranteed by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. without the
consent of Counterparty. 

GS Co. Payment Instructions:

Chase Manhattan Bank New York 
For A/C Goldman, Sachs   Co. 
A/C # 930-1-011483 
ABA: 021-000021 

Counterparty Payment Instructions:

To be provided by Counterparty 

2.  Calculation Agent : GS Co. All determinations made by the Calculation Agent shall
be made in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner. Following any calculation by the
Calculation Agent hereunder, upon a prior written request by the Counterparty, the Calculation
Agent will provide to the Counterparty by e-mail to the e-mail address provided by the Counterparty
in such a prior written request a report (in a commonly used file format for the storage and
manipulation of financial data) displaying in reasonable detail the basis for such calculation.

-7- 

3.  Representations, Warranties and Covenants of GS Co. and Counterparty .

(a) Each party represents and warrants that it (i) is an  eligible contract participant , as
defined in the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act, as amended and (ii) is entering into each Transaction
hereunder as principal (and not as agent or in any other capacity, fiduciary or otherwise) and not
for the benefit of any third party.

(b) Each party acknowledges that the offer and sale of each Transaction to it is intended to
be exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the   Securities Act  ), by
virtue of Section 4(2) thereof and the provisions of Regulation D promulgated thereunder
(  Regulation D  ). Accordingly, each party represents and warrants to the other that (i) it has the
financial ability to bear the economic risk of its investment in each Transaction and is able to
bear a total loss of its investment, (ii) it is an  accredited investor  as that term is defined
under Regulation D, (iii) it will purchase each Transaction for investment and not with a view to
the distribution or resale thereof in a manner that would violate the Securities Act, and (iv) the
disposition of each Transaction is restricted under this Master Confirmation, the Securities Act
and state securities laws.

4.  Additional Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Counterparty .

As of (i) the date hereof and (ii) the period of time from the Trade Date until the time that
each party has fully performed all of its obligations under the related Transaction, Counterparty
represents, warrants and covenants to GS Co. that:

(a) the purchase or writing of any Transaction and the transactions contemplated hereby do not
and will not violate Rule 13e-1 or Rule 13e-4 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the   Exchange Act  

(b) it is not entering into any Transaction (i) on the basis of, and is not aware of, any
material non-public information with respect to the Shares (ii) in anticipation of, in connection
with, or to facilitate, a distribution of its securities, a self tender offer or a third-party
tender offer or (iii) to create actual or apparent trading activity in the Shares (or any security
convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares) or to otherwise manipulate the price of the Shares
(or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares);

(c) Counterparty is in compliance with its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and
its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, together with all reports subsequently filed by it
pursuant to the Exchange Act, taken together and as amended and supplemented, do not, as of their
respective filing dates, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the
light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;

(d) each Transaction is being entered into pursuant to a publicly disclosed Share buy-back
program and its Board of Directors has approved the use of the Transactions to effect the Share
buy-back program;

(e) without limiting the generality of Section 13.1 of the Equity Definitions, Counterparty
acknowledges that GS Co. is not making any representations or warranties with respect to the
treatment of any Transaction under FASB Statements 128, 133 (as amended), 149 or 150, EITF 00-19
(or any successor issue statements) or under the Financial Accounting Standards Board s Liabilities
  Equity Project;

(f) Counterparty is not, and will not be, engaged in a  distribution  of Shares or securities
that are convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for Shares for purposes of Regulation M
promulgated under the Exchange Act ( Regulation M ) (other than securities or activities excepted
from Regulation M by reason of Rules 101(b) and (c) and 102(b), (c) and (d) under the Exchange Act)
at any time during the Valuation Period, or the one Exchange Business Day immediately following the
Relevant Period, unless Counterparty has provided written notice to GS Co. of such distribution (a
 Regulation M Distribution Notice ) not later than the Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding
the first day of the relevant  restricted period  (as defined in Regulation M); Counterparty
acknowledges that any such notice may cause the Valuation Period to be extended or suspended
pursuant to Section 5 below; accordingly, Counterparty acknowledges that its delivery of such
notice must comply with the standards set forth in Section 6 below;

-8- 

(g) it shall report each Transaction as required under Regulation S-K and/or Regulation S-B
under the Exchange Act, as applicable;

(h) on the Trade Date and on each day of the Valuation Period, (i) the assets of Counterparty
at their fair valuation exceed the liabilities of Counterparty, including contingent liabilities,
(ii) the capital of Counterparty is adequate to conduct the business of Counterparty and (iii)
Counterparty has the ability to pay its debts and obligations as such debts mature and does not
intend to, or does not believe that it will, incur debt beyond its ability to pay as such debts
mature;

(i) it has not, and during any Valuation Period will not, enter into agreements similar to the
Transactions described herein where any initial hedge period (however defined) or the calculation
period (however defined) in such other transaction will overlap at any time (including as a result
of extensions in such initial hedge period or calculation period as provided in the relevant
agreements) with any Valuation Period under this Master Confirmation. In the event that the
initial hedge period or calculation period in any other similar transaction overlaps with any
Valuation Period under this Master Confirmation as a result of an extension of the Valuation Date
pursuant to Section 5 herein, Counterparty shall promptly amend such transaction to avoid any such
overlap; and

(j) Counterparty is not and, after giving effect to the Transaction, will not be, required to
register as an  investment company  as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940,
as amended.

5.  Suspension of Valuation Period .

(a) If Counterparty concludes that it will be engaged in a distribution of the Shares for
purposes of Regulation M (other than securities or activities excepted from Regulation M by reason
of Rules 101(b) and (c) and 102(b), (c) and (d) under the Exchange Act), Counterparty agrees that
it will, on a day no later than the Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the start of the
relevant restricted period, provide GS Co. with a Regulation M Distribution Notice. Upon the
effectiveness of such Regulation M Distribution Notice, GS Co. shall halt any purchase of Shares in
connection with hedging any Transaction during the relevant  restricted period . If on any
Scheduled Trading Day Counterparty delivers the Regulation M Distribution Notice in writing (and
confirms by telephone) by 8:30 a.m. New York Time (the  Notification Time ) then such notice shall
be effective as of such Notification Time. In the event that Counterparty delivers such Regulation
M Distribution Notice in writing and/or confirms by telephone after the Notification Time, then
such notice shall be effective as of 8:30 a.m. New York Time on the following Scheduled Trading Day
or as otherwise required by law or agreed between Counterparty and GS Co. The Valuation Period
shall be suspended and the Valuation Date shall be postponed for each Scheduled Trading Day in such
restricted period.

(b) In the event that GS Co. concludes, in its reasonable discretion, that as a result of an
event, condition or circumstance arising after the Trade Date it is appropriate with respect to any
legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures (whether or
not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted
by GS Co.), for it to refrain from purchasing Shares on any Scheduled Trading Day during the
Valuation Period, GS Co. may by written notice to Counterparty elect to suspend the Valuation
Period for such number of Scheduled Trading Days as is specified in the notice. Unless GS Co. is
under legal, regulatory, contractual or other obligation not to disclose the underlying reasons for
such a suspension, the notice (which may be verbal) shall specify the reason for GS Co. s election
to suspend the Valuation Period. The Valuation Period shall be suspended and the Valuation Date
shall be postponed for each Scheduled Trading Day occurring during any such suspension.

(c) In the event that the Valuation Period is suspended pursuant to Section 5(a) or (b) above
during the regular trading session on the Exchange then the Calculation Agent in its reasonable
discretion shall, in calculating the Forward Price, extend the Valuation Period and make
adjustments to the weighting of each Rule 10b-18 eligible transaction in the Shares on the relevant
Exchange Business Days during the Valuation Period for purposes of determining the Forward Price,
with such adjustments based on, among other factors, the duration of any such suspension and the
volume, historical trading patterns and price of the Shares.

6.  10b5-1 Plan . Counterparty represents, warrants and covenants to GS Co. that for
each Transaction:

-9- 

(a) Counterparty is entering into this Master Confirmation and each Transaction hereunder in
good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of Rule 10b5-1 under the
Exchange Act ( Rule 10b5-1 ) or any antifraud or anti-manipulation provisions of the federal or
applicable state securities laws and that it has not entered into or altered and will not enter
into or alter any corresponding or hedging transaction or position with respect to the Shares.
Counterparty acknowledges that it is the intent of the parties that each Transaction entered into
under this Master Confirmation comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i)(A) and (B) and
each Transaction entered into under this Master Confirmation shall be interpreted to comply with
the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c).

(b) Counterparty will not seek to control or influence GS Co. to make  purchases or sales 
(within the meaning of Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i)(B)(3)) under any Transaction entered into under this
Master Confirmation, including, without limitation, GS Co. s decision to enter into any hedging
transactions. Counterparty represents and warrants that it has consulted with its own advisors as
to the legal aspects of its adoption and implementation of this Master Confirmation and each
Supplemental Confirmation under Rule 10b5-1.

(c) Counterparty acknowledges and agrees that any amendment, modification, waiver or
termination of this Master Confirmation or the relevant Supplement Confirmation must be effected in
accordance with the requirements for the amendment or termination of a  plan  as defined in Rule
10b5-1(c). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any such amendment, modification,
waiver or termination shall be made in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the
prohibitions of Rule 10b-5, and no such amendment, modification, waiver or termination shall be
made at any time at which Counterparty or any officer, director, manager or similar person of
Counterparty is aware of any material non-public information regarding Counterparty or the Shares.

7.  Counterparty Purchases . Counterparty represents, warrants and covenants to GS Co.
that, for each Transaction, Counterparty (or any  affiliated purchaser  as defined in Rule 10b-18
under the Exchange Act ( Rule 10b-18 )) shall not, without the prior written consent of GS Co.,
directly or indirectly purchase any Shares (including by means of a derivative instrument), listed
contracts on the Shares or securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for
Shares (including, without limitation, any Rule 10b-18 purchases of blocks (as defined in Rule
10b-18)) during any Relevant Period, except for purchases from its employees that are not  Rule
10b-18 purchases  (as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(13)). During this time, any such purchases by
Counterparty shall be made through GS Co., or if not through GS Co., with the prior written consent
of GS Co., and in compliance with Rule 10b-18 or otherwise in a manner that Counterparty and GS Co.
believe is in compliance with applicable requirements.

8.  Additional Termination Events . The declaration of any Extraordinary Dividend by
Counterparty during the Valuation Period for any Transaction shall constitute an Additional
Termination Event, with Counterparty as the sole Affected Party and all Transactions hereunder as
the Affected Transactions.

9.  reserved 

10.  Automatic Termination Provisions . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
Section 6 of the Agreement:

(a) If a Termination Price is specified in one or more Supplemental Confirmations, then an
Additional Termination Event with Counterparty as the sole Affected Party and all Transactions to
which such Supplemental Confirmations relate as Affected Transactions will automatically occur
without any notice or action by GS Co. or Counterparty if the price of the Shares on the Exchange
at any time falls below such Termination Price. The Exchange Business Day that the price of the
Shares on the Exchange at any time falls below the Termination Price will be the  Early Termination
Date  for purposes of the Agreement.

(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6(d) of the Agreement, following the
occurrence of such an Additional Termination Event, GS Co. will notify Counterparty of the amount
owing under Section 6(e) of the Agreement within a commercially reasonable time period (with such
period based upon the amount of time, determined by GS Co. (or any of its Affiliates) in its
reasonable discretion, that it would take to unwind any of its Hedge Position(s) related to the
Transaction in a commercially reasonable manner based on

-10- 

relevant market indicia). For purposes of the  Net Share Settlement Upon Early Termination 
provisions herein, the date that such notice is effective shall constitute the Net Share Valuation
Date and the Early Termination Date.

11.  Special Provisions for Merger Transactions . Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary herein or in the Equity Definitions, Counterparty shall,

(a) prior to the opening of trading in the Shares on any day during any Relevant Period on
which Counterparty makes, or expects to be made, any public announcement (as defined in Rule 165(f)
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) of any Merger Transaction, notify GS Co. of such
public announcement;

(b) promptly notify GS Co. following any such announcement that such announcement has been
made;

(c) promptly provide GS Co. with written notice specifying (i) Counterparty s average daily
Rule 10b-18 Purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) during the three full calendar months immediately
preceding the Announcement Date that were not effected through GS Co. or its affiliates and (ii)
the number of Shares purchased pursuant to the proviso in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) under the Exchange Act
for the three full calendar months preceding the Announcement Date. Such written notice shall be
deemed to be a certification by Counterparty to GS Co. that such information is true and correct.
In addition, Counterparty shall promptly notify GS Co. of the earlier to occur of the completion of
such transaction and the completion of the vote by target shareholders. Counterparty acknowledges
that any such notice may cause the terms of any Transaction to be adjusted or such Transaction to
be terminated; accordingly, Counterparty acknowledges that its delivery of such notice must comply
with the standards set forth in Section  and

(d) GS Co. in its reasonable discretion may (i) suspend the Valuation Period and postpone the
Valuation Date or (ii) treat the occurrence of such public announcement as an Additional
Termination Event with Counterparty as the sole Affected Party and the Transactions hereunder as
the Affected Transactions.

Merger Transaction  means any merger, acquisition or similar transaction involving a
recapitalization as contemplated by Rule 10b-18(a)(13)(iv) under the Exchange Act.

12.  Special Calculation and Settlement Following Early Termination and Extraordinary
Events . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Master Confirmation or any
Supplemental Confirmation hereunder, in the event that an Extraordinary Event occurs that results
in the termination or cancellation of one or more Transactions or an Early Termination Date occurs
or is designated with respect to one or more Transactions (each an  Elected Transaction  and
collectively, the  Elected Transactions ), then GS Co. may elect, in its sole discretion, by notice
to Counterparty, to have Counterparty deliver the Number of Early Settlement Shares to GS Co. on
the date that such notice is effective and either (x) GS Co. shall pay to Counterparty the Special
Termination Amount, if such amount is positive, or (y) Counterparty shall either (1) pay to GS Co.
the absolute value of the Special Termination Amount, if such amount is negative, or (2) elect for
the provisions set forth opposite  Net Share Settlement Upon Early Termination  to apply except
that all references in such provision to  the Early Termination Amount  shall be replaced with
references to  the Special Termination Amount . To the extent that Counterparty elects to deliver
Early Settlement Shares to GS Co. accompanied by an effective Registration Statement (as defined in
Annex B and satisfactory to GS Co. in its sole discretion) covering such Shares, Counterparty must
be in compliance with the conditions specified in (iii) though (ix) in Annex B hereto at the time
of such delivery. If Counterparty elects to deliver Unregistered Shares (as defined in Annex B) to
GS Co., Counterparty and GS Co. will negotiate in good faith on acceptable procedures and
documentation relating to the sale of such Unregistered Shares. Counterparty and GS Co. agree that
the payment of the Special Termination Amount and the delivery of the Early Settlement Shares
satisfy in full any obligation of a party to make any payments pursuant to Section 6(e) of the
Agreement or Article 12 of the Equity Definitions, as the case may be, in respect of the Elected
Transactions.

Number of Early Settlement Shares  means a number of Shares ( Early Settlement Shares ) as
determined by GS Co. in a good faith and commercially reasonable manner based on its or any of its
Affiliates  Hedge Positions with respect to the Elected Transactions under this Master
Confirmation.

-11- 

Special Termination Amount  means the sum of (a) the product of (i) the Number of Early
Settlement Shares  multiplied by  (ii) a per Share price (the  Early Termination Price ) determined
by GS Co. in a good faith and commercially reasonable manner based on relevant market indicia,
including GS Co. s funding costs associated with Early Settlement Shares and costs incurred or
estimated to be incurred by GS Co. in connection with the purchase and sale of Shares in order to
close out GS Co. s or any of its Affiliates  Hedge Positions with respect to each Affected
Transaction and, in the event that Counterparty delivers Unregistered Shares to GS Co., whether
GS Co. and Counterparty have agreed on acceptable procedures and documentation relating to such
Unregistered Shares as described above and (b) any amount owing under Section 6(e) of the Agreement
or Article 12 of the Equity Definitions, as the case may be, in respect of the Elected Transactions
by GS Co. to Counterparty (expressed as a positive number) or by Counterparty to GS Co. (expressed
as a negative number).

13.  Acknowledgments . The parties hereto intend for:

(a) Each Transaction to be a  securities contract  as defined in Section 741(7) of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code (Title 11 of the United States Code) (the  Bankruptcy Code ), a  swap agreement  as
defined in Section 101(53B) of the Bankruptcy Code, or a  forward contract  as defined in Section
101(25) of the Bankruptcy Code, and the parties hereto to be entitled to the protections afforded
by, among other Sections, Sections 362(b)(6), 362(b)(17), 362(b)(27), 555, 556, 560 and 561 of the
Bankruptcy Code;

(b) the Agreement to be a  master netting agreement  as defined in Section 101 (38A) of the
Bankruptcy Code;

(c) a party s right to liquidate or terminate any Transaction, net out or offset termination
values of payment amounts, and to exercise any other remedies upon the occurrence of any Event of
Default under the Agreement with respect to the other party to constitute a  contractual right  (as
defined in the Bankruptcy Code);

(d) any cash, securities or other property transferred as performance assurance, credit
support or collateral with respect to each Transaction to constitute  margin payments  (as defined
in the Bankruptcy Code); and

(e) all payments for, under or in connection with each Transaction, all payments for the
Shares and the transfer of such Shares to constitute  settlement payments  and  transfers  (as
defined in the Bankruptcy Code).

14.  Calculations on Early Termination and Set-Off .

(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement or the Equity Definitions, the
calculation of any Settlement Amounts, Unpaid Amounts and amounts owed in respect of cancelled
Transactions under Article 12 of the Equity Definitions shall be calculated separately for (A) all
Terminated Transactions (it being understood that such term for purposes of this paragraph includes
Transactions cancelled pursuant to Article 12 of the Equity Definitions) in the Shares of the
Issuer that qualify as equity under applicable accounting rules (collectively, the  Equity Shares )
as determined by the Calculation Agent and (B) all other Terminated Transactions under the
Agreement including, without limitation, Transactions in Shares other than those of the Issuer
(collectively, the  Other Shares   ).

(b) The parties agree to amend Section 6 of the Agreement by adding a new Section 6(f) thereto
as follows:

(f) Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default or Termination Event with
respect to a party who is the Defaulting Party or the Affected Party or upon
the occurrence of an Extraordinary Event that results in the termination or
cancellation of any Transaction (such Defaulting Party, Affected Party or, in
the case of such an Extraordinary Event, either party,   X  ), the other party
(  Y  ) will have the right (but not be obliged) without prior notice to X or
any other person to set-off or apply any obligation of X owed to Y (or any
Affiliate of Y) (whether or not matured or contingent and whether or not
arising under the

-12- 

Agreement, and regardless of the currency, place of payment or booking office
of the obligation) against any obligation of Y (or any Affiliate of Y) owed to
X (whether or not matured or contingent and whether or not arising under the
Agreement, and regardless of the currency, place of payment or booking office
of the obligation). Y will give notice to the other party of any set-off
effected under this Section 6(f).

Amounts (or the relevant portion of such amounts) subject to set-off may be
converted by Y into the Termination Currency at the rate of exchange at which
such party would be able, acting in a reasonable manner and in good faith, to
purchase the relevant amount of such currency. If any obligation is
unascertained, Y may in good faith estimate that obligation and set-off in
respect of the estimate, subject to the relevant party accounting to the other
when the obligation is ascertained. Nothing in this Section 6(f) shall be
effective to create a charge or other security interest. This Section 6(f)
shall be without prejudice and in addition to any right of set-off,
combination of accounts, lien or other right to which any party is at any time
otherwise entitled (whether by operation of law, contract or otherwise). 

(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, GS Co. agrees not to set off or
net amounts due from Counterparty with respect to any Transaction against amounts due from GS Co.
to Counterparty under obligations other than Equity Contracts.   Equity Contract   means any
transaction relating to Shares between the parties (or any of their affiliates) that qualifies as
 equity  under applicable accounting rules.

15.  Payment Date Upon Early Termination . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
Section 6(d)(ii) of the Agreement, all amounts calculated as being due in respect of an Early
Termination Date under Section 6(e) of the Agreement will be payable on the day that notice of the
amount payable is effective.

16.  Credit Support Documents . The parties hereto acknowledge that no Transaction
hereunder is secured by any collateral that would otherwise secure the obligations of Counterparty
herein or pursuant to the Agreement.

17.  Claim in Bankruptcy . GS Co. agrees that in the event of the bankruptcy of
Counterparty, GS Co. shall not have rights or assert a claim that is senior in priority to the
rights and claims available to the shareholders of the common stock of Counterparty.

18.  Transactions by GS Co .  *** 

19.  Offices .

(a) The Office of GS Co. for each Transaction is: One New York Plaza, New York, New York
10004.

(b) The Office of Counterparty for each Transaction is: 3050 Bowers Avenue, Santa Clara,
California 95054.

20.  Governing Law . The Agreement, this Master Confirmation and each Supplemental
Confirmation and all matters arising in connection with the Agreement, this Master Confirmation and
each Supplemental Confirmation shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with,
the laws of the State of New York (without reference to its choice of laws doctrine).

***  
       
      information has been omitted and filed separately with the Commission.
Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.  

-13- 

21.  Counterparts . This Master Confirmation may be executed in any number of
counterparts, all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any party hereto may
execute this Master Confirmation by signing and delivering one or more counterparts.

22.  Arbitration .

(a) All parties to this Confirmation are giving up the right to sue each other in court,
including the right to a trial by jury, except as provided by the rules of the arbitration forum in
which a claim is filed.

(b) Arbitration awards are generally final and binding; a party s ability to have a court
reverse or modify an arbitration award is very limited.

(c) The ability of the parties to obtain documents, witness statements and other discovery is
generally more limited in arbitration than in court proceedings.

(d) The arbitrators do not have to explain the reason(s) for their award.

(e) The panel of arbitrators will typically include a minority of arbitrators who were or are
affiliated with the securities industry, unless Counterparty is a member of the organization
sponsoring the arbitration facility, in which case all arbitrators may be affiliated with the
securities industry.

(f) The rules of some arbitration forums may impose time limits for bringing a claim in
arbitration. In some cases, a claim that is ineligible for arbitration may be brought in court.

(g) The rules of the arbitration forum in which the claim is filed, and any amendments
thereto, shall be incorporated into this Confirmation.

(h) Counterparty agrees that any and all controversies that may arise between Counterparty and
GS   Co., including, but not limited to, those arising out of or relating to the Agreement or any
Transaction hereunder, shall be determined by arbitration conducted before The New York Stock
Exchange, Inc. ( NYSE ) or NASD Dispute Resolution ( NASD-DR ), or, if the NYSE and NASD-DR decline
to hear the matter, before the American Arbitration Association, in accordance with their
arbitration rules then in force. The award of the arbitrator shall be final, and judgment upon the
award rendered may be entered in any court, state or federal, having jurisdiction.

(i) No person shall bring a putative or certified class action to arbitration, nor seek to
enforce any pre-dispute arbitration agreement against any person who has initiated in court a
putative class action or who is a member of a putative class who has not opted out of the class
with respect to any claims encompassed by the putative class action until: (i) the class
certification is denied; (ii) the class is decertified; or (iii) Counterparty is excluded from the
class by the court.

(j) Such forbearance to enforce an agreement to arbitrate shall not constitute a waiver of any
rights under this Confirmation except to the extent stated herein.

-14- 

23. Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Master Confirmation carefully and immediately
upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to
confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between GS Co. and
Counterparty with respect to any Transaction, by manually signing this Master Confirmation or this
page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested
herein and immediately returning an executed copy to Equity Derivatives Documentation Department,
facsimile No. 212-428-1980/83.

Yours sincerely, 

GOLDMAN, SACHS   CO.  

By:   
     /s/ Conrad Langenegger

Authorized Signatory  

Name:  Title:   
      Conrad Langenegger
 Vice President,
 Equity Derivatives Administration  

Agreed and Accepted By:

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.  

By:   
     /s/ Nancy H. Handel

Name:   
     Nancy H. Handel  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer  

-15- 

ANNEX A 

SUPPLEMENTAL CONFIRMATION

The purpose of this Supplemental Confirmation is to confirm the terms and conditions of the
Transaction entered into between Goldman, Sachs   Co. ( GS Co. ) and Applied Materials, Inc.
( Counterparty  and together with GS Co., the  Contracting Parties ) on the Trade Date specified
below. This Supplemental Confirmation is a binding contract between GS Co. and Counterparty as of
the relevant Trade Date for the Transaction referenced below.

1. This Supplemental Confirmation supplements, forms part of, and is subject to the Master
Confirmation dated as of September 18, 2006 (the  Master Confirmation ) between the Contracting
Parties, as amended and supplemented from time to time. All provisions contained in the Master
Confirmation govern this Supplemental Confirmation except as expressly modified below.

2. The terms of the Transaction to which this Supplemental Confirmation relates are as follows:

Trade Date:

, 200_  

Initial Share Price:

USD       per Share. 

Valuation Date:

, 200_  

Number of Shares:

Settlement Price Adjustment Amount

USD      

Ordinary Dividend Amount:

For any calendar quarter, USD      

Termination Price:

USD      per Share 

Reserved Shares:

Shares 

Counterparty Additional Payment Amount:

USD                         

3. Counterparty represents and warrants to GS Co. that neither it (nor any  affiliated purchaser 
as defined in Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act) have made any purchases of blocks pursuant to the
proviso in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) under the Exchange Act during the four full calendar weeks immediately
preceding the Trade Date.

4. This Supplemental Confirmation may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which shall
constitute one and the same instrument, and any party hereto may execute this Supplemental
Confirmation by signing and delivering one or more counterparts.

Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Supplemental Confirmation carefully and
immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified
and (b) to confirm that the foregoing

A-1 

correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between GS Co. and Counterparty with respect
to this Transaction, by manually signing this Supplemental Confirmation or this page hereof as
evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and
immediately returning an executed copy to Equity Derivatives Documentation Department, facsimile
No. 212-428-1980/83.

Yours sincerely, 

GOLDMAN, SACHS   CO.  

By:   

Authorized Signatory  

Agreed and Accepted 

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

A-2 

ANNEX B 

NET SHARE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES

The following Net Share Settlement Procedures shall apply to the extent that Counterparty
elects Net Share Settlement in accordance with the Master Confirmation:

Net Share Settlement shall be made by delivery of the number of Shares equal in value to the
Forward Cash Settlement Amount (the  Settlement Shares ), with such Shares  value based on the Net
Share Settlement Price, as determined by the Calculation Agent. Delivery of such Settlement Shares
shall be made free of any contractual or other restrictions in good transferable form on the Net
Share Settlement Date with Counterparty (i) representing and warranting to GS Co. at the time of
such delivery that it has good, valid and marketable title or right to sell and transfer all such
Shares to GS Co. under the terms of the related Transaction free of any lien charge, claim or other
encumbrance and (ii) making the representations and agreements contained in Section 9.11(ii)
through (iv) of the Equity Definitions to GS Co. with respect to the Settlement Shares (except that
the representations and agreements contained in Section 9.11(ii) through (iv) of the Equity
Definitions shall be modified by excluding any representations therein relating to restrictions,
obligations, limitations or requirements under applicable securities laws as a result of the fact
the Counterparty is the issuer of the Settlement Shares). GS Co. or any affiliate of GS Co.
designated by GS Co. (GS Co. or such affiliate,  GS ) shall resell the Settlement Shares during a
period (the  Resale Period ) commencing no earlier than the Net Share Valuation Date. The Resale
Period shall end on the Exchange Business Day on which GS completes the sale of all Settlement
Shares or a sufficient number of Settlement Shares so that the realized net proceeds of such sales
exceed the Forward Cash Settlement Amount. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if resale by GS of the
Settlement Shares, as determined by GS in its reasonable discretion (i) occurs during a
distribution for purposes of Regulation M, and if GS would be subject to the restrictions of Rule
101 of Regulation M in connection with such distribution, the Resale Period will be postponed or
tolled, as the case may be, until the Exchange Business Day immediately following the end of any
 restricted period  as such term is defined in Regulation M with respect to such distribution under
Regulation M or (ii) conflict with any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related
policies and procedures applicable to GS (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures
are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by GS), the Resale Period will be postponed or
tolled, as the case may be, until such conflict is no longer applicable. During the Resale Period,
if the realized net proceeds from the resale of the Settlement Shares exceed the Forward Cash
Settlement Amount, GS shall refund such excess in cash to Counterparty by the close of business on
the third Exchange Business Day immediately following the last day of the Resale Period. If the
Forward Cash Settlement Amount exceeds the realized net proceeds from such resale, Counterparty
shall transfer to GS by the open of the regular trading session on the Exchange on the third
Scheduled Trading Day immediately following the last day of the Resale Period the amount of such
excess (the  Additional Amount ) in cash or in the number of Shares ( Make-whole Shares ) in an
amount that, based on the Net Share Settlement Price on the last day of the Resale Period (as if
such day was the  Net Share Valuation Date  for purposes of computing such Net Share Settlement
Price), has a dollar value equal to the Additional Amount, as determined by the Calculation Agent.
The Resale Period shall continue to enable the sale of the Make-whole Shares. If Counterparty
elects to pay the Additional Amount in Shares, the requirements and provisions set forth below
shall apply. This provision shall be applied successively until the Additional Amount is equal to
zero.

Net Share Settlement of a Transaction is subject to the following conditions:

Counterparty at its sole expense shall:

(i) as promptly as practicable (but in no event more than fifteen (15) Exchange
Business Days immediately following the Settlement Method Election Date or, in the case of
an election of Net Share Settlement upon the occurrence of an Extraordinary Event or an
Early Termination Date, no more than one Exchange Business Day immediately following either
the Cancellation Date or the Early Termination Date, as the case may be) file under the
Securities Act and use its reasonable efforts to make effective, as promptly as practicable,
a registration statement or supplement or amend an outstanding registration statement, in
any such case, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to GS (the  Registration
Statement ) covering the offering and sale by GS of not less than 150% of the Shares

B-1 

necessary to fulfill the Net Share Settlement delivery obligation by Counterparty
(determining the number of such Shares to be registered on the basis of the average of the
Settlement Prices on the fifteen (15) Exchange Business Days prior to the date of such
filing, amendment or supplement, as the case may be);

(ii)
maintain the effectiveness of the Registration Statement until GS has sold all shares to be delivered by Counterparty in satisfaction of its Net Share Settlement
obligations;

(iii) have afforded GS and its counsel and other advisers a reasonable opportunity to
conduct a due diligence investigation of Counterparty customary in scope for transactions in
which GS acts as underwriter of equity securities, and GS shall have been satisfied (with
the approval of its Commitments Committee in accordance with its customary review process)
with the results of such investigation;

(iv) have negotiated and entered into an agreement with GS providing for such
covenants, conditions, representations and warranties, underwriting discounts, commissions,
indemnities and contribution rights as are customary for GS equity underwriting agreements,
together with customary certificates and opinions of counsel and letters of independent
auditors of Counterparty to be delivered to GS covering the shares to be delivered by
Counterparty in satisfaction of its Net Share Settlement obligations;

(v) have delivered to GS such number of prospectuses relating thereto as GS shall have
reasonably requested and shall promptly update and provide GS with replacement prospectuses
as necessary to ensure the prospectus does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or any omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make
the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not
misleading;

(vi) have retained for GS nationally-recognized underwriting counsel acceptable to GS
(in its sole discretion) with broad experience in similar registered securities offerings
and such counsel shall have agreed to act as such;

(vii) have taken all steps necessary for the shares sold by GS to be listed or quoted
on the primary exchange or quotation system that the Shares are listed or quoted on;

(viii) have paid all reasonable and actual out-of-pocket costs and expenses of GS and
all reasonable and actual fees and expenses of GS s outside counsel and other independent
experts in connection with the foregoing; and

(ix) take such action as is required to ensure that GS s sale of the Shares does not
violate, or result in a violation of, the federal or state securities laws.

In the event that the Registration Statement is not declared effective by the Securities
Exchange Commission (the   SEC  ) or any of the conditions specified in (ii) through (ix) above are
not satisfied on or prior to the Valuation Date (or, in the case of an election of Net Share
Settlement upon the occurrence of an Extraordinary Event or an Early Termination Date, on or prior
to the first Exchange Business Day following either the Cancellation Date or the Early Termination
Date, as the case may be), then Counterparty may deliver Unregistered Shares (as defined below) to
GS in accordance with the following conditions. If GS and Counterparty can agree on acceptable
pricing, procedures and documentation relating to the sale of such Unregistered Shares (including,
without limitation, applicable requirements in (iii) through (ix) above and insofar as pertaining
to private offerings), then such Unregistered Shares shall be deemed to be the  Settlement Shares 
for the purposes of the related Transaction and the settlement procedure specified in this Annex B
shall be followed except that in the event that the Forward Cash Settlement Amount exceeds the
proceeds from the sale of such Unregistered Shares then for the purpose of calculating the number
of Make-whole Shares to be delivered by Counterparty, GS shall determine the discount to the Net
Share Settlement Price at which it can sell the Unregistered Shares. Notwithstanding the delivery
of the Unregistered Shares, Counterparty shall endeavor in good faith to have a registration
statement declared effective by the SEC as soon as practical. In the event that GS has not sold
sufficient Unregistered Shares

B-2 

to satisfy Counterparty s obligations to GS contained herein at the time that a Registration
Statement covering the offering and sale by GS of a number of Shares equal in value to not less
than 150% of the amount then owed to GS is declared effective (based on the Net Share Settlement
Price on the Exchange Business Day (as if such Exchange Business Day were the  Net Share Valuation
Date  for purposes of computing such Net Share Settlement Price) that the Registration Statement
was declared effective), GS shall return all unsold Unregistered Shares to Counterparty and
Counterparty shall deliver such number of Shares covered by the effective Registration Statement
equal to 100% of the amount then owed to GS based on such Net Share Settlement Price. Such
delivered shares shall be deemed to be the  Settlement Shares  for the purposes of the related
Transaction and the settlement procedure specified in this Master Confirmation (including the
obligation to deliver any Make-whole Shares, if applicable) shall be followed. In all cases GS
shall be entitled to take any and all required actions in the course of its sales of the Settlement
Shares, including without limitation making sales of the Unregistered Shares only to  Qualified
Institutional Buyers  (as such term is defined under the Securities Act), to ensure that the sales
of the Unregistered Shares and the Settlement Shares covered by the Registration Statement are not
integrated resulting in a violation of the securities laws and Counterparty agrees to take all
actions requested by GS in furtherance thereof.

If GS and Counterparty cannot agree on acceptable pricing, procedures and documentation
relating to the sales of such Unregistered Shares then the number of Unregistered Shares to be
delivered to GS pursuant to the provisions above shall not be based on the Net Share Settlement
Price but rather GS shall determine the value attributed to each Unregistered Share in a
commercially reasonable manner and based on such value Counterparty shall deliver a number of
Shares equal in value to the Forward Cash Settlement Amount. For the purposes hereof  Unregistered
Shares  means Shares that have not been registered pursuant to an effective registration statement
under the Securities Act or any state securities laws ( Blue Sky Laws ) and that cannot be sold,
transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of without registration under the Securities Act or
under applicable Blue Sky Laws unless such sale, transfer, pledge or other disposition is made in a
transaction exempt from registration thereunder.

In the event that Counterparty delivers Shares pursuant to an election of Net Share Settlement
then Counterparty agrees to indemnify and hold harmless GS, its affiliates and its assignees and
their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons (GS and each such
person being an  Indemnified Party ) from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and
liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may
become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, (i) relating to or arising out of any of the
Transactions contemplated by this Master Confirmation concerning the Shares or (ii) arising out of
or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any
preliminary prospectus, prospectus, Registration Statement or other written material relating to
the Shares delivered to prospective purchasers, including in each case any amendments or
supplements thereto and including but not limited to any documents deemed to be incorporated in any
such document by reference (the  Offering Materials ), or arising out of or based upon any omission
or alleged omission to state in the Offering Materials a material fact necessary in order to make
the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not
misleading; provided, however, that, in the case of this clause (ii), Counterparty will not be
liable to the extent that any loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any
untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission in the Offering Materials made
in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to Counterparty by GS
expressly for use in the Offering Materials, as expressly identified in a letter to be delivered at
the closing of the delivery of Shares by Counterparty to GS. The foregoing indemnity shall exclude
losses that GS incurs solely by reason of the proceeds from the sale of the Capped Number of Shares
being less than the Forward Cash Settlement Amount. Counterparty will not be liable under the
foregoing indemnification provision to the extent that any loss, claim, damage, liability or
expense is found in a nonappealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted
from GS s willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith in performing the services that are
subject of this Master Confirmation. If for any reason the foregoing indemnification is
unavailable to any Indemnified Party or insufficient to hold harmless any Indemnified Party, then
Counterparty shall contribute, to the maximum extent permitted by law, to the amount paid or
payable by the Indemnified Party as a result of such loss, claim, damage or liability. In
addition, Counterparty will reimburse any Indemnified Party for all expenses (including reasonable
counsel fees and expenses) as they are incurred (after notice to Counterparty) in connection with
the investigation of, preparation for or defense or settlement of any pending or threatened claim
or any action, suit or proceeding arising therefrom, whether or not such Indemnified Party is a
party thereto and whether or not such claim, action, suit or proceeding is initiated or brought by
or on behalf of Counterparty. Counterparty also agrees that no Indemnified Party shall have any
liability to Counterparty or any person asserting

B-3 

claims on behalf of or in right of Counterparty in connection with or as a result of any
matter referred to in the Agreement or this Master Confirmation except to the extent that any
losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses incurred by Counterparty result from the gross
negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith of the Indemnified Party. This indemnity shall survive
the completion of any Transaction contemplated by this Master Confirmation and any assignment and
delegation of a Transaction made pursuant to this Master Confirmation or the Agreement shall inure
to the benefit of any permitted assignee of GS Co.

In no event shall the number of Settlement Shares (including, without duplication, any
Unregistered Shares) and any Make-whole Shares, be greater than the Reserved Shares minus the
amount of any Shares actually delivered under any other Transaction(s) under this Master
Confirmation (the result of such calculation, the  Capped Number ). Counterparty represents and
warrants (which shall be deemed to be repeated on each day that a Transaction is outstanding) that
the Capped Number is equal to or less than the number of Shares determined according to the
following formula:

A   B

Where

A = the number of authorized but unissued shares of the Issuer
that are not reserved for future issuance on the date of the determination of
the Capped Number; and 

B = the maximum number of Shares required to be delivered to third parties
if Counterparty elected Net Share Settlement of all transactions in the
Shares (other than Transactions in the Shares under this Master
Confirmation) with all third parties that are then currently outstanding and
unexercised. 

B-4 

</EX-10.40>

<EX-10.41>
 7
 f25754exv10w41.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.41

exv10w41 

Exhibit 10.41 

SUPPLEMENTAL CONFIRMATION

The purpose of this Supplemental Confirmation is to confirm the terms and conditions of the
Transaction entered into between Goldman, Sachs   Co. ( GS Co. ) and Applied Materials, Inc.
( Counterparty  and together with GS Co., the  Contracting Parties ) on the Trade Date specified
below. This Supplemental Confirmation is a binding contract between GS Co. and Counterparty as of
the relevant Trade Date for the Transaction referenced below.

1. This Supplemental Confirmation supplements, forms part of, and is subject to the Master
Confirmation dated as of September 18, 2006 (the  Master Confirmation ) between the Contracting
Parties, as amended and supplemented from time to time. All provisions contained in the Master
Confirmation govern this Supplemental Confirmation except as expressly modified below.

2. The terms of the Transaction to which this Supplemental Confirmation relates are as follows:

3. Counterparty represents and warrants to GS Co. that neither it (nor any  affiliated purchaser 
as defined in Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act) have made any purchases of blocks pursuant to the
proviso in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) under the Exchange Act during the four full calendar weeks immediately
preceding the Trade Date.

***  
       
      information has been omitted and filed separately with the Commission.
Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.  

4. This Supplemental Confirmation may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which shall
constitute one and the same instrument, and any party hereto may execute this Supplemental
Confirmation by signing and delivering one or more counterparts.

Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Supplemental Confirmation carefully and
immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified
and (b) to confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between
GS Co. and Counterparty with respect to this Transaction, by manually signing this Supplemental
Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other
information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to Equity Derivatives
Documentation Department, facsimile No. 212-428-1980/83.

Yours sincerely, 

GOLDMAN, SACHS   CO.  

By:   
     /s/ Conrad Langenegger

Authorized Signatory  

Name:  Title:   
     Conrad Langenegger
 Vice President, 
Equity Derivatives Administration  

Agreed and Accepted 

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.  

By:   
     /s/  Nancy H. Handel

Name:   
     Nancy H. Handel  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer  

2 

</EX-10.41>

<EX-10.42>
 8
 f25754exv10w42.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.42

exv10w42 

Exhibit 10.42 

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. 
EMPLOYEE STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
(as amended and restated on September 13, 2006)

SECTION 1 
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE

1.1  Background . The Plan permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive
Stock Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, Performance Units, and Performance Shares.

1.2  Purpose of the Plan . The Plan is intended to attract, motivate, and retain (a)
employees of the Company and its Affiliates, (b) consultants who provide significant services to
the Company and its Affiliates, and (c) directors of the Company who are employees of neither the
Company nor any Affiliate. The Plan also is designed to encourage stock ownership by Participants,
thereby aligning their interests with those of the Company s stockholders.

SECTION 2 
DEFINITIONS

The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings unless a different meaning
is plainly required by the context:

2.1   1934 Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Reference to a
specific section of the 1934 Act or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation,
any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future
legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.

2.2   Affiliate   means any corporation or any other entity (including, but not limited
to, partnerships and joint ventures) controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the
Company.

2.3   Affiliated SAR   means an SAR that is granted in connection with a related Option,
and which automatically will be deemed to be exercised at the same time that the related Option is
exercised.

2.4   Annual Revenue   means the Company s or a business unit s net sales for the Fiscal
Year, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; provided, however,
that prior to the Fiscal Year, the Committee shall determine whether any significant item(s) shall
be excluded or included from the calculation of Annual Revenue with respect to one or more
Participants.

2.5   Award   means, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of
Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, Performance Units, or
Performance Shares.

2.6   Award Agreement   means the written agreement setting forth the terms and
provisions applicable to each Award granted under the Plan.

2.7   Board   or   Board of Directors   means the Board of Directors of the
Company.

2.8   Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference to a
specific section of the Code or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any
valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future
legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.

2.9   Committee   means the committee appointed by the Board (pursuant to Section 3.1)
to administer the Plan.

2.10   Company   means Applied Materials, Inc. , a Delaware corporation, or any
successor thereto. With respect to the definitions of the Performance Goals, the Committee may
determine that  Company  means Applied Materials, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

2.11   Consultant   means any consultant, independent contractor, or other person who
provides significant services to the Company or its Affiliates, but who is neither an Employee nor
a Director.

2.12   Controllable Profits   means as to any Fiscal Year, a business unit s Annual
Revenue minus (a) cost of sales, (b) research, development, and engineering expense, (c) marketing
and sales expense, (d) general and administrative expense, (e) extended receivables expense, and
(f) shipping requirement deviation expense.

2.13   Customer Satisfaction MBOs   means as to any Participant, the objective and
measurable individual goals set by a  management by objectives  process and approved by the
Committee, which goals relate to the satisfaction of external or internal customer requirements.

2.14   Director   means any individual who is a member of the Board of Directors of the
Company.

2.15   Disability   means a permanent and total disability within the meaning of Section
22(e)(3) of the Code, provided that in the case of Awards other than Incentive Stock Options, the
Committee in its discretion may determine whether a permanent and total disability exists in
accordance with uniform and non-discriminatory standards adopted by the Committee from time to
time.

2.16   Earnings Per Share   means as to any Fiscal Year, the Company s Net Income or a
business unit s Pro Forma Net Income, divided by a weighted average number of common shares
outstanding and dilutive common equivalent shares deemed outstanding.

2.17   Employee   means any employee of the Company or of an Affiliate, whether such
employee is so employed at the time the Plan is adopted or becomes so employed subsequent to the
adoption of the Plan.

2.18   Exercise Price   means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a
Participant pursuant to the exercise of an Option.

-2- 

2.19   Fair Market Value   means the last quoted per share selling price for Shares on
the relevant date, or if there were no sales on such date, the arithmetic mean of the highest and
lowest quoted selling prices on the nearest day before and the nearest day after the relevant date,
as determined by the Committee. Notwithstanding the preceding, for federal, state, and local
income tax reporting purposes, fair market value shall be determined by the Committee (or its
delegate) in accordance with uniform and nondiscriminatory standards adopted by it from time to
time.

2.20   Fiscal Year   means the fiscal year of the Company.

2.21   Freestanding SAR   means a SAR that is granted independently of any Option.

2.22   Grant Date   means, with respect to an Award, the date that the Award was
granted.

2.23   Incentive Stock Option   means an Option to purchase Shares which is designated
as an Incentive Stock Option and is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code.

2.24   Individual MBOs   means as to a Participant, the objective and measurable goals
set by a  management by objectives  process and approved by the Committee (in its discretion).

2.25   Net Income   means as to any Fiscal Year, the income after taxes of the Company
for the Fiscal Year determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
provided that prior to the Fiscal Year, the Committee shall determine whether any significant
item(s) shall be included or excluded from the calculation of Net Income with respect to one or
more Participants.

2.26   New Orders   means as to any Fiscal Year, the firm orders for a system, product,
part, or service that are being recorded for the first time as defined in the Company s Order
Recognition Policy.

2.27   Nonemployee Director   means a Director who is an employee of neither the Company
nor of any Affiliate.

2.28   Nonqualified Stock Option   means an option to purchase Shares which is not
intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.

2.29   Option   means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option.

2.30   Participant   means an Employee, Consultant, or Nonemployee Director who has an
outstanding Award.

2.31   Performance Goals   means the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the
Committee (in its discretion) to be applicable to a Participant with respect to an Award. As
determined by the Committee, the Performance Goals applicable to an Award may provide for a
targeted level or levels of achievement using one or more of the following measures: (a) Annual
Revenue, (b) Controllable Profits, (c) Customer Satisfaction MBOs, (d) Earnings Per Share, (e)
Individual MBOs, (f) Net Income, (g) New Orders, (h) Pro Forma Net Income, (i) Return on Designated
Assets, and (j) Return on Sales. The Performance Goals may differ from Participant to Participant
and from Award to Award. Any criteria used may be (i) measured in absolute terms, (ii) compared to
another company or companies,
(iii) measured against the performance of the Company

-3- 

as a whole or a segment of the Company
and/or (iv) measured on a pre-tax or post-tax basis (if applicable).

2.32   Performance Share   means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section
8.

2.33   Performance Unit   means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8.

2.34   Period of Restriction   means the period during which the transfer of Shares of
Restricted Stock are subject to restrictions and therefore, the Shares are subject to a substantial
risk of forfeiture. As provided in Section 7, such restrictions may be based on the passage of
time, the achievement of target levels of performance, or the occurrence of other events as
determined by the Committee, in its discretion. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the
Plan, a Period of Restriction shall expire at a rate no faster than one-third (1/3) of the Shares
covered by an Award each year unless determined otherwise by the Committee at its discretion solely
by reason of death, Disability, Retirement or major capital change.

2.35   Plan   means the Applied Materials, Inc. Employee Stock Incentive Plan, as set
forth in this instrument and as hereafter amended from time to time. The Plan formerly was named
the Applied Materials, Inc. 1995 Equity Incentive Plan.

2.36   Pro Forma Net Income   means as to any business unit for any Fiscal Year, the
Controllable Profits of such business unit, minus allocations of designated corporate expenses.

2.37   Reload Option   means an Option that automatically is granted if a Participant
pays the exercise price of an Option by tendering Shares.

2.38   Restricted Stock   means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 7.

2.39   Retirement   means, in the case of an Employee or a Nonemployee Director: (a) a
Termination of Service occurring on or after age sixty-five (65), or (b) a Termination of Service
occurring on or after age sixty (60) with at least ten (10) Years of Service. Notwithstanding the
preceding, in the case of any Option granted to any Employee prior to December 10, 1998,
 Retirement  means a Termination of Service by reason of the Employee s retirement at or after his
or her normal retirement date under the Applied Materials, Inc. Employee Savings and Retirement
Plan, or any successor plan. With
respect to a Consultant, no Termination of Service shall be deemed to be on account of
 Retirement. 

2.40   Return on Designated Assets   means as to any Fiscal Year, the Pro Forma Net
Income of a business unit, divided by the average of beginning and ending business unit designated
assets, or Net Income of the Company, divided by the average of beginning and ending designated
corporate assets.

2.41   Return on Sales   means as to any Fiscal Year, the percentage equal to the
Company s Net Income or the business unit s Pro Forma Net Income, divided by the Company s or the
business unit s Annual Revenue.

2.42   Rule 16b-3   means Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act, and any future
regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such regulation.

-4- 

2.43   Section 16 Person   means a person who, with respect to the Shares, is subject to
Section 16 of the 1934 Act.

2.44   Shares   means the shares of common stock of the Company.

2.45   Stock Appreciation Right   or   SAR   means an Award, granted alone or in
connection with a related Option, that pursuant to Section 7 is designated as an SAR.

2.46   Subsidiary   means any corporation in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning
with the Company if each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain
then owns stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all
classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.

2.47   Tandem SAR   means an SAR that is granted in connection with a related Option,
the exercise of which shall require forfeiture of the right to purchase an equal number of Shares
under the related Option (and when a Share is purchased under the Option, the SAR shall be canceled
to the same extent).

2.48   Termination of Service  
means (a) in the case of an Employee, a cessation of the employee-employer relationship
between the Employee and the Company or an Affiliate for any reason, including, but not by way of
limitation, a termination by resignation, discharge, death, Disability, Retirement, or the
disaffiliation of an Affiliate, but excluding any such termination where there is a simultaneous
reemployment by the Company or an Affiliate; (b) in the case of a Consultant, a cessation of the
service relationship between the Consultant and the Company or an Affiliate for any reason,
including, but not by way of limitation, a termination by resignation, discharge, death,
Disability, or the disaffiliation of an Affiliate, but excluding any such termination where there
is a simultaneous re-engagement of the consultant by the Company or an Affiliate; and (c) in the
case of a Nonemployee Director, a cessation of the Director s service on the Board for any reason,
including, but not by way of limitation, a termination by resignation, death, Disability,
Retirement or non-reelection to the Board.

2.49   Years of Service   means, in the case of an Employee, the number of full months
from the Employee s latest hire date with the Company or an Affiliate to the date in question,
divided by 12. The Employee s latest hire date shall be determined after giving effect to the
non-401(k) Plan principles of North American Human Resources Policy No. 2-06, Re-Employment of
Former Employees/Bridging of Service, as such Policy may be amended or superseded from time to
time. With respect to a Nonemployee Director,  Years of Service  means the number of years of
continuous service on the Board of Directors.

SECTION 3 
ADMINISTRATION

3.1  The Committee . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee
shall consist of not less than two (2) Directors who shall be appointed from time to time by, and
shall serve at the pleasure of, the Board of Directors. The Committee shall be comprised solely of
Directors who both are (a)  non-employee directors  under Rule 16b-3, and (b)  outside directors 
under Section 162(m) of the Code.

-5- 

3.2  Authority of the Committee . It shall be the duty of the Committee to administer
the Plan in accordance with the Plan s provisions. The Committee shall have all powers and
discretion necessary or appropriate to administer the Plan and to control its operation, including,
but not limited to, the power to (a) determine which Employees and Consultants shall be granted
Awards, (b) prescribe the terms and conditions of the Awards, (c) interpret the Plan and the
Awards, (d) adopt such procedures and subplans as are necessary or appropriate to permit
participation in the Plan by Employees, Consultants and Directors who are foreign nationals or
employed outside of the United States, (e) adopt rules for the administration, interpretation and
application of the Plan as are consistent therewith, and (f) interpret, amend or revoke any such
rules. Except as provided in Section 4.3, the Committee may not reprice outstanding Options or
institute a program whereby outstanding Awards are surrendered or cancelled in exchange for Awards
of the same type (which may have a lower
exercise price or purchase price), of a different type and/or cash without first obtaining
stockholder approval.

3.3  Delegation by the Committee . The Committee, in its sole discretion and on such
terms and conditions as it may provide, may delegate all or any part of its authority and powers
under the Plan to one or more Directors or officers of the Company; provided, however, that the
Committee may not delegate its authority and powers (a) with respect to Section 16 Persons, or (b)
in any way which would jeopardize the Plan s qualification under Section 162(m) of the Code or Rule
16b-3.

3.4  Decisions Binding . All determinations and decisions made by the Committee, the
Board, and any delegate of the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final,
conclusive, and binding on all persons, and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.

SECTION 4 
SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

4.1  Number of Shares . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.3, the total
number of Shares available for grant under the Plan shall not exceed 367,200,000. Shares granted
under the Plan may be either authorized but unissued Shares or treasury Shares. The total number
of Shares that may be granted pursuant to awards of Restricted Stock, Performance Shares and
Performance Units may not exceed 20,000,000 Shares.

4.2  Lapsed Awards . If an Award is settled in cash, or is cancelled, terminates,
expires, or lapses for any reason (with the exception of the termination of a Tandem SAR upon
exercise of the related Option, or the termination of a related Option upon exercise of the
corresponding Tandem SAR), any Shares subject to such Award again shall be available to be the
subject of an Award.

4.3  Adjustments in Awards and Authorized Shares . In the event of any merger,
reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, separation, liquidation, stock dividend, split-up,
Share combination, or other change in the corporate structure of the Company affecting the Shares,
the Committee shall adjust the number and class of Shares which may be delivered under the Plan,
the number, class, and price of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, and the numerical limits of
Sections 5.1, 6.1, 7.1, 8.1 and 9.1, in such manner as the Committee (in its sole discretion) shall
determine to be appropriate to prevent the dilution or diminution of such Awards. Notwithstanding
the preceding, the number of Shares subject to any Award always shall be a whole number.

-6- 

SECTION 5 
STOCK OPTIONS

5.1  Grant of Options . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be
granted to Employees and Consultants at any time and from time to time as determined by the
Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine the
number of Shares subject to each Option, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall
be granted Options covering more than 1,400,000 Shares. The Committee may grant Incentive Stock
Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, or a combination thereof. The Committee may not grant Reload
Options.

5.2  Award Agreement . Each Option shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall
specify the Exercise Price, the expiration date of the Option, the number of Shares to which the
Option pertains, any conditions to exercise of the Option, and such other terms and conditions as
the Committee, in its discretion, shall determine. The Award Agreement shall also specify whether
the Option is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option.

5.3  Exercise Price . Subject to the provisions of this Section 5.3, the Exercise Price
for each Option shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.

5.3.1  Nonqualified Stock Options . In the case of a Nonqualified Stock Option, the
Exercise Price shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a
Share on the Grant Date.

5.3.2  Incentive Stock Options . In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the Exercise
Price shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the
Grant Date; provided, however, that if on the Grant Date, the Employee (together with persons whose
stock ownership is attributed to the Employee pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) owns stock
possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company
or any of its Subsidiaries, the Exercise Price shall be not less than one hundred and ten percent
(110%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.

5.3.3  Substitute Options . Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 5.3.1 and 5.3.2,
in the event that the Company or an Affiliate consummates a transaction described in Section 424(a)
of the Code (e.g., the acquisition of property or stock from an unrelated corporation), persons who
become Employees or Consultants on account of such transaction may be granted Options in
substitution for options granted by their former employer. If such substitute Options are granted,
the Committee, in its sole discretion and consistent with Section 424(a) of the Code, may determine
that such substitute Options shall have an exercise price less than one hundred percent (100%) of
the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the Grant Date.

5.4  Expiration of Options .

5.4.1  Expiration Dates . Each Option shall terminate no later than the first to occur
of the following events:

(a) The date for termination of the Option set forth in the written Award Agreement; or

-7- 

(b) The expiration of seven (7) years from the Grant Date; or

(c) The expiration of one (1) year from the date of the Participant s Termination of Service
for a reason other than the Participant s death, Disability or Retirement; or

(d) The expiration of three (3) years from the date of the Participant s Termination of
Service by reason of Disability; or

(e) The expiration of three (3) years from the date of the Participant s Retirement (except as
provided in Section 5.8.2 regarding Incentive Stock Options).

5.4.2  Death of Participant . Notwithstanding Section 5.4.1, if a Participant dies
prior to the expiration of his or her Options, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide that
his or her Options shall be exercisable for up to three (3) years after the date of death.

5.4.3  Committee Discretion . Subject to the limits of Sections 5.4.1 and 5.4.2, the
Committee, in its sole discretion, (a) shall provide in each Award Agreement when each Option
expires and becomes unexercisable, and (b) may, after an Option is granted, extend the maximum term
of the Option (subject to Section 5.8.4 regarding Incentive Stock Options).

5.5  Exercisability of Options . Options granted under the Plan shall be exercisable at
such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall determine in
its sole discretion. After an Option is granted, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may
accelerate the exercisability of the Option.

5.6  Payment . Options shall be exercised by the Participant s delivery of a written
notice of exercise to the Secretary of the Company (or its designee), setting forth the number of
Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the
Shares.

Upon the exercise of any Option, the Exercise Price shall be payable to the Company in full in
cash or its equivalent. The Committee, in its sole discretion, also may permit exercise (a) by
tendering previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise
equal to the total Exercise Price, or (b) by any other means which the Committee, in its sole
discretion, determines to both provide legal consideration for the Shares, and to be consistent
with the purposes of the Plan.

As soon as practicable after receipt of a written notification of exercise and full payment
for the Shares purchased, the Company shall deliver to the Participant (or the Participant s
designated broker), Share certificates (which may be in book entry form) representing such Shares.

5.7  Restrictions on Share Transferability . The Committee may impose such restrictions
on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option as it may deem advisable, including,
but not limited to, restrictions related to applicable federal securities laws, the requirements of
any national securities exchange or system upon which Shares are then listed or traded, or any blue
sky or state securities laws.

-8- 

5.8  Certain Additional Provisions for Incentive Stock Options .

5.8.1  Exercisability . The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined on the Grant
Date(s)) of the Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first
time by any Employee during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and its Subsidiaries)
shall not exceed $100,000.

5.8.2  Termination of Service . No Incentive Stock Option may be exercised more than
three (3) months after the Participant s Termination of Service for any reason other than
Disability or death, unless (a) the Participant dies during such three-month period, and (b) the
Award Agreement or the Committee permits later exercise. No Incentive Stock Option may be
exercised more than one (1) year after the Participant s Termination of Service on account of
Disability, unless (a) the Participant dies during such one-year period, and (b) the Award
Agreement or the Committee permit later exercise.

5.8.3  Company and Subsidiaries Only . Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to
persons who are employees of the Company or a Subsidiary on the Grant Date.

5.8.4  Expiration . No Incentive Stock Option may be exercised after the expiration of
seven (7) years from the Grant Date; provided, however, that if the Option is granted to an
Employee who, together with persons whose stock ownership is attributed to the Employee pursuant to
Section 424(d) of the Code, owns stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power
of all classes of the stock of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, the Option may not be
exercised after the expiration of five (5) years from the Grant Date.

SECTION 6 
STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS

6.1  Grant of SARs . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, an SAR may be
granted to Employees and Consultants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by
the Committee, in its sole discretion. The Committee may grant Affiliated SARs, Freestanding SARs,
Tandem SARs, or any combination thereof.

6.1.1  Number of Shares . The Committee shall have complete discretion to determine the
number of SARs granted to any Participant, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant
shall be granted SARs covering more than 700,000 Shares.

6.1.2  Exercise Price and Other Terms . The Committee, subject to the provisions of the
Plan, shall have complete discretion to determine the terms and conditions of SARs granted under
the Plan. However, the exercise price of a Freestanding SAR shall be not less than one hundred
percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date. The exercise price of Tandem
or Affiliated SARs shall equal the Exercise Price of the related Option.

6.2  Exercise of Tandem SARs . Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or part of the
Shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent
portion of the related Option. A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the Shares for
which its related Option is then exercisable. With respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection
with an

-9- 

Incentive Stock Option: (a) the Tandem SAR shall expire no later than the expiration of
the underlying Incentive Stock Option; (b) the value of the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR
shall be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the Exercise Price
of the underlying Incentive Stock Option and the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the
underlying Incentive Stock Option at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised; and (c) the Tandem SAR
shall be exercisable only when the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the Incentive Stock
Option exceeds the Exercise Price of the Incentive Stock Option.

6.3  Exercise of Affiliated SARs . An Affiliated SAR shall be deemed to be exercised
upon the exercise of the related Option. The deemed exercise of an Affiliated SAR shall not
necessitate a reduction in the number of Shares subject to the related Option.

6.4  Exercise of Freestanding SARs . Freestanding SARs shall be exercisable on such
terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.

6.5  SAR Agreement . Each SAR grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall
specify the exercise price, the term of the SAR, the conditions of exercise, and such other terms
and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.

6.6  Expiration of SARs . An SAR granted under the Plan shall expire upon the date
determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the rules of Section 5.4 also shall apply to SARs.

6.7  Payment of SAR Amount . Upon exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the
Company in an amount determined by multiplying:

(a) The difference between the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise over the
exercise price; times

(b) The number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised.

At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, in Shares of
equivalent value, or in some combination thereof.

SECTION 7 
RESTRICTED STOCK

7.1  Grant of Restricted Stock . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the
Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock to Employees and
Consultants in such amounts as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine. The
Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine the number of Shares to be granted to each
Participant, provided that during any Fiscal Year, no Participant shall receive more than 350,000
Shares of Restricted Stock.

7.2  Restricted Stock Agreement . Each Award of Restricted Stock shall be evidenced by
an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period of Restriction, the number of Shares granted, and
such other terms and conditions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine. Unless
the

-10- 

Committee determines otherwise, Shares of Restricted Stock shall be held by the Company as
escrow agent until the restrictions on such Shares have lapsed.

7.3  Transferability . Except as provided in this Section 7, Shares of Restricted Stock
may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the
end of the applicable Period of Restriction.

7.4  Other Restrictions . The Committee, in its sole discretion, may impose such other
restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock as it may deem advisable or appropriate, in accordance
with this Section 7.4.

7.4.1  General Restrictions . The Committee may set restrictions based upon the
achievement of specific performance objectives (Company-wide, divisional, or individual),
applicable federal or state securities laws, or any other basis determined by the Committee in its
discretion.

7.4.2  Section 162(m) Performance Restrictions . For purposes of qualifying grants of
Restricted Stock as  performance-based compensation  under Section 162(m) of the Code, the
Committee, in its discretion, may set restrictions based upon the achievement of Performance Goals.
The Performance Goals shall be set by the Committee on or before the latest date permissible to
enable the Restricted Stock to qualify as  performance-based compensation  under Section 162(m) of
the Code. In granting Restricted Stock which is intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the
Code, the Committee shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be necessary
or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Restricted Stock under Section 162(m) of the Code
(e.g., in determining the Performance Goals).

7.4.3  Legend on Certificates . The Committee, in its discretion, may legend the
certificates representing Restricted Stock to give appropriate notice of such restrictions. For
example, the Committee may determine that some or all certificates representing Shares of
Restricted Stock shall bear the following legend:

The sale or other transfer of the shares of stock represented by this
certificate, whether voluntary, involuntary, or by operation of law, is subject to
certain restrictions on transfer as set forth in the Applied Materials, Inc.
Employee Stock Incentive Plan, and in a Restricted Stock Agreement. A copy of the
Plan and such Restricted Stock Agreement may be obtained from the Secretary of
Applied Materials, Inc. 

7.5  Removal of Restrictions . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 7, Shares
of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Plan shall be released
from escrow as soon as practicable after the last day of the Period of Restriction. Subject to the
minimum Period of Restriction specified in Section 2.35, the Committee, in its discretion, may
accelerate the time at which any restrictions shall lapse or be removed. After the restrictions
have lapsed, the Participant shall be entitled to have any legend or legends under Section 7.4.3
removed from his or her Share certificate, and the Shares shall be freely transferable by the
Participant.

-11- 

7.6  Voting Rights . During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of
Restricted Stock granted hereunder may exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares,
unless the Committee determines otherwise.

7.7  Dividends and Other Distributions . During the Period of Restriction, Participants
holding Shares of Restricted Stock shall be entitled to receive all dividends and other
distributions paid with respect to such Shares unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement.
If any such dividends or distributions are paid in Shares, the Shares shall be subject to the same
restrictions on transferability and forfeitability as the Shares of Restricted Stock with respect
to which they were paid.

7.8  Return of Restricted Stock to Company . On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, the Restricted Stock for which restrictions
have not lapsed shall revert to the Company and again shall become available for grant under the
Plan.

SECTION 8 
PERFORMANCE UNITS AND PERFORMANCE SHARES

8.1  Grant of Performance Units/Shares . Performance Units and Performance Shares may
be granted to Employees and Consultants at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined
by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The Committee shall have complete discretion in
determining the number of Performance Units and Performance Shares granted to each Participant
provided that during any Fiscal Year, (a) no Participant shall receive Performance Units having an
initial value greater than $3,000,000, and (b) no Participant shall receive more than 350,000
Performance Shares.

8.2  Value of Performance Units/Shares . Each Performance Unit shall have an initial
value that is established by the Committee on or before the Grant Date. Each Performance Share
shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.

8.3  Performance Objectives and Other Terms . The Committee shall set performance
objectives in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine
the number or value of Performance Units/Shares that will be paid out to the Participants. The
time period during which the performance objectives must be met shall be called the  Performance
Period.  Each Award of Performance Units/Shares shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that
shall specify the Performance Period, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee, in its
sole discretion, shall determine.

8.3.1  General Performance Objectives . The Committee may set performance objectives
based upon the achievement of Company-wide, divisional, and/or individual goals (including, but not
limited to, continued employment), applicable federal or state securities laws, or any other basis
determined by the Committee in its discretion.

8.3.2  Section 162(m) Performance Objectives . For purposes of qualifying grants of
Performance Units/Shares as  performance-based compensation  under Section 162(m) of the Code, the
Committee, in its discretion, may determine that the performance objectives applicable to
Performance Units/Shares shall be based on the achievement of Performance Goals. The

-12- 

Performance
Goals shall be set by the Committee on or before the latest date permissible to enable the
Performance Units/Shares to qualify as  performance-based compensation  under Section 162(m) of the
Code. In granting Performance Units/Shares which are intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of
the Code, the Committee shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be
necessary or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Performance Units/Shares under Section
162(m) of the Code (e.g., in determining the Performance Goals).

8.4  Earning of Performance Units/Shares . After the applicable Performance Period has
ended, the holder of Performance Units/Shares shall be entitled to receive a payout of the number
of Performance Units/Shares earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined
as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance objectives have been achieved.
After the grant of a Performance Unit/Share, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may reduce or
waive any performance objectives for such Performance Unit/Share.

8.5  Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Shares . Payment of earned
Performance Units/Shares shall be made as soon as practicable after the expiration of the
applicable Performance Period. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance
Units/Shares in the form of cash, in Shares (which have an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the
value of the earned Performance Units/Shares at the close of the applicable Performance Period) or
in a combination thereof.

8.6  Cancellation of Performance Units/Shares . On the date set forth in the Award
Agreement, all unearned or unvested Performance Units/Shares shall be forfeited to the Company, and
again shall be available for grant under the Plan.

SECTION 9 
NONEMPLOYEE DIRECTOR OPTIONS

The provisions of this Section 9 are applicable only to Options granted to Nonemployee
Directors. The provisions of Section 5 are applicable to Options granted to Employees and
Consultants (and to the extent provided in Section 9.2.8, to Options granted to Nonemployee
Directors).

9.1  Granting of Options .

9.1.1  Initial Grants . Each Nonemployee Director who first becomes a Nonemployee
Director on or after the effective date of this Plan, automatically shall receive, as of the date
that the individual first is appointed or elected as a Nonemployee Director, an Option to purchase
45,000 Shares.

9.1.2  Ongoing Grants . Each Nonemployee Director who both (a) is a Nonemployee
Director on the last business day of a Fiscal Year, and (b) has served as a Nonemployee Director
for the entire Fiscal Year which includes such last business day, automatically shall receive, as
of the first business day of the following Fiscal Year only, an Option to purchase 25,000 Shares.

-13- 

9.2  Terms of Options .

9.2.1  Option Agreement . Each Option granted pursuant to this Section 9 shall be
evidenced by a written Award Agreement between the Participant and the Company.

9.2.2  Exercise Price . The Exercise Price for the Shares subject to each Option
granted pursuant to this Section 9 shall be 100% of the Fair Market Value of such Shares on the
Grant Date.

9.2.3  Exercisability . Each Option granted pursuant to this Section 9 shall become
exercisable as to twenty-five percent (25%) of the Shares on each of the first four annual
anniversaries of the Grant Date. Notwithstanding the preceding, once a Participant ceases to be a
Director, his or her Options which are not then exercisable shall never become exercisable and
shall be immediately forfeited, except to the limited extent provided in the Sections 9.2.4 and
9.2.6.

9.2.4  Retirement of Participant . In the event that a Participant is age sixty (60) or
over and has completed at least ten (10) Years of Service and then incurs a Termination of Service
due to Retirement, the right to exercise all or a portion of any Shares subject to his or her
Options that remain unexercisable immediately prior to such Retirement shall accrue on the date of
Retirement in accordance with the following rules. If the Participant has less than fifteen (15)
Years of Service as of the date of his or her Retirement, fifty percent (50% )of the Shares that
otherwise would have vested during the twelve (12) months immediately following the Retirement (had
the Participant remained a Nonemployee Director throughout such 12 month period) shall vest on the
Retirement date. If the Participant has at least fifteen (15) (but less than twenty (20)) Years of
Service as of the date of the Retirement, one hundred percent (100%) of the Shares that otherwise
would have vested during the twelve (12) months immediately following the Retirement (had the
Participant remained a Nonemployee Director throughout such 12 month period) shall vest on the
Retirement date. If the Participant has at least twenty (20) (but less than twenty-five (25))
Years of Service as of the date of the Retirement, (a) one hundred percent (100%) of the Shares
that otherwise would have vested during the twelve (12) months immediately following the Retirement
(had the Participant remained a Nonemployee Director throughout such 12 month period) shall vest on
the Retirement date, and (b) fifty percent (50%) of the Shares that otherwise would have vested
during the second twelve (12) months following the Retirement (had the Participant remained a
Nonemployee Director throughout such 12 month period) shall vest on the Retirement date. If the
Participant has at least twenty-five (25) Years of Service as of the date of the Retirement, one
hundred percent (100%) of the Shares that otherwise would have vested during the twenty-four (24)
months immediately following the Retirement (had the Participant remained a Nonemployee Director
throughout such 24 month period) shall vest on the Retirement date.

9.2.5  Expiration of Options . Each Option granted pursuant to this Section 9 shall
terminate upon the first to occur of the following events:

(a) The expiration of five (5) years or (in the case of any Option granted after October 10,
2000) seven (7) years from the Grant Date; or

(b) The expiration of seven (7) months from the date of the Participant s Termination of
Service for any reason other than the Participant s death, Disability or Retirement; or

-14- 

(c) The expiration of one (1) year from the date of the Participant s Termination of Service
by reason of Disability or Retirement.

9.2.6  Death of Participant . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9.2.5, if a
Participant dies prior to the expiration of his or her Options in accordance with Section 9.2.5,
then (a) one hundred percent (100%) of the Shares covered by his or her Options shall immediately
become one hundred percent (100%) exercisable, and (b) his or her Options shall terminate one (1)
year after the date of his or her death.

9.2.7  Not Incentive Stock Options . Options granted pursuant to this Section 9 shall
not be designated as Incentive Stock Options.

9.2.8  Other Terms . All provisions of the Plan not inconsistent with this Section 9
shall apply to Options granted to Nonemployee Directors.

SECTION 10 
MISCELLANEOUS

10.1  Deferrals . The Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit a Participant to
defer receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such
Participant under an Award. Any such deferral elections shall be subject to such rules and
procedures as shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.

10.2  No Effect on Employment or Service . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or
limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate any Participant s employment or service at
any time, with or without cause. For purposes of the Plan, transfer of employment of a Participant
between the Company and any one of its Affiliates (or between Affiliates) shall not be deemed a
Termination of Service. Employment with the Company and its Affiliates is on an at-will basis
only.

10.3  Participation . No Employee or Consultant shall have the right to be selected to
receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future
Award.

10.4  Indemnification . Each person who is or shall have been a member of the
Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from
(a) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or
her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she
may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to
act under the Plan or any
Award Agreement, and (b) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof,
with the Company s approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such
claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an
opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to
handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be
exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the
Company s Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or
under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.

-15- 

10.5  Successors . All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to
Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence
of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or
otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company.

10.6  Beneficiary Designations . If permitted by the Committee, a Participant under the
Plan may name a beneficiary or beneficiaries to whom any vested but unpaid Award shall be paid in
the event of the Participant s death. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by
the Participant and shall be effective only if given in a form and manner acceptable to the
Committee. In the absence of any such designation, any vested benefits remaining unpaid at the
Participant s death shall be paid to the Participant s estate and, subject to the terms of the Plan
and of the applicable Award Agreement, any unexercised vested Award may be exercised by the
administrator or executor of the Participant s estate.

10.7  Limited Transferability of Awards . No Award granted under the Plan may be sold,
transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will, by the
laws of descent and distribution, or to the limited extent provided in Section 10.6. All rights
with respect to an Award granted to a Participant shall be available during his or her lifetime
only to the Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Participant may, in a manner specified
by the Committee, (a) transfer a Nonqualified Stock Option to a Participant s spouse, former spouse
or dependent pursuant to a court-approved domestic relations order which relates to the provision
of child support, alimony payments or marital property rights, and (b) transfer a Nonqualified
Stock Option by bona fide gift and not for any consideration, to (i) a member or members of the
Participant s immediate family, (ii) a trust established for the exclusive benefit of the
Participant and/or member(s) of the Participant s immediate family, (iii) a partnership, limited
liability company of other entity whose only partners or members are the Participant and/or
member(s) of the Participant s immediate family, or (iv) a foundation in which the Participant
an/or member(s) of the Participant s immediate family control the management of the foundation s
assets.

10.8  No Rights as Stockholder . Except to the limited extent provided in Sections 7.6
and 7.7, no Participant (nor any beneficiary) shall have any of the rights or privileges of a
stockholder of the Company with respect
to any Shares issuable pursuant to an Award (or exercise thereof), unless and until
certificates representing such Shares shall have been issued, recorded on the records of the
Company or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to the Participant (or beneficiary).

SECTION 11 
AMENDMENT, TERMINATION, AND DURATION

11.1  Amendment, Suspension, or Termination . The Board, in its sole discretion, may
amend, suspend or terminate the Plan, or any part thereof, at any time and for any reason. The
amendment, suspension, or termination of the Plan shall not, without the consent of the
Participant, alter or impair any rights or obligations under any Award theretofore granted to such
Participant. No Award may be granted during any period of suspension or after termination of the
Plan.

11.2  Duration of the Plan . The amended and restated Plan shall be effective as of
September 13, 2006 and subject to Section 11.1 (regarding the Board s right to amend or terminate the
Plan),

-16- 

shall remain in effect thereafter. However, without further stockholder approval, no
Incentive Stock Option may be granted under the Plan after December 28, 2013.

SECTION 12 
TAX WITHHOLDING

12.1  Withholding Requirements . Prior to the delivery of any Shares or cash pursuant
to an Award (or exercise thereof), the Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or
withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy
federal, state, and local taxes (including the Participant s FICA obligation) required to be
withheld with respect to such Award (or exercise thereof).

12.2  Withholding Arrangements . The Committee, in its sole discretion and pursuant to
such procedures as it may specify from time to time, may permit a Participant to satisfy such tax
withholding obligation, in whole or in part by (a) electing to have the Company withhold otherwise
deliverable Shares, or (b) delivering to the Company already-owned Shares having a Fair Market
Value equal to the amount required to be withheld. The amount of the withholding requirement shall
be deemed to include any amount which the Committee agrees may be withheld at the time the election
is made, not to exceed the amount determined by using the maximum federal, state or local marginal
income tax rates applicable to the Participant with respect to the Award on the date that the
amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined. The Fair Market Value of the Shares to be
withheld or delivered shall be determined as of the date that the taxes are required to be
withheld.

SECTION 13 
LEGAL CONSTRUCTION

13.1  Gender and Number . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any
masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular
and the singular shall include the plural.

13.2  Severability . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or
invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the
Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not
been included.

13.3  Requirements of Law . The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the
Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any
governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.

13.4  Securities Law Compliance . With respect to Section 16 Persons, transactions
under this Plan are intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3. To the extent
any provision of the Plan, Award Agreement or action by the Committee fails to so comply, it shall
be deemed null and void, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by the Committee.

13.5  Governing Law . The Plan and all Award Agreements shall be construed in
accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of California.

13.6  Captions . Captions are provided herein for convenience only, and shall not serve
as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan.

-17- 

</EX-10.42>

<EX-12>
 9
 f25754exv12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

exv12 

Exhibit 12

 RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
(In thousands, except ratios)

(1) 
       
     Capitalized interest includes interest capitalized during the period, less the amount
of previously capitalized interest that was amortized during the period. 

(2) 
       
     The interest factor is estimated at one-third of total rent expense for the applicable
period, which management believes represents a reasonable approximation
of the interest factor. 

(3) 
       
     Due to Applied s loss in fiscal 2003, the ratio of coverage was less than 1:1.
Applied would have needed to generate additional earnings of $209 million to achieve the coverage ratio of 1:1. 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 10
 f25754exv21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. 

PLACE OF  

LEGAL ENTITY NAME  

INCORPORATION  

Applied Materials Japan, Inc.

Japan 

Applied Materials (Holdings)

(1) 

California 

Applied Materials Asia-Pacific, Ltd.

(2) 

Delaware 

Applied Materials Israel, Ltd.

(3) 

Israel 

Applied Materials SPV1, Inc.

(4) 

Delaware 

Parker Technologies, Inc.

California 

AKT, Inc.

(5) 

Japan 

Etec Systems, Inc.

Nevada 

Display Products Group, Inc.

Nevada 

Global Knowledge Services, Inc.

Delaware 

Electron Vision Corporation

California 

AKT Japan, LLC

Delaware 

Boxer Cross, Inc.

Delaware 

Applied Materials India Private Limited

India 

Torrex Equipment Corporation

California 

Metron Technology , Inc.

(6) 

Delaware 

Applied Ventures, LLC

Delaware 

Applied Films Corporation

(7) 

Colorado 

Sokudo Co., Ltd. 1 

(8) 

Japan 

(1) Applied Materials (Holdings) owns the following
subsidiary: 

Applied Materials UK Limited

California 

(2) Applied Materials Asia-Pacific, Ltd. owns the
following subsidiaries: 

Applied Materials Korea, Ltd.

Korea 

Applied Materials Taiwan, Ltd.

Taiwan 

Applied Materials South East Asia Pte. Ltd.

(a) 
       
     Singapore 

Applied Materials China, Ltd.

(b) 
       
     Hong Kong 

AMAT (Thailand) Limited

Thailand 

Applied Materials (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.

P.R. China 

Applied Materials (China) Holdings, Ltd.

(c) 
       
     P.R. China 

(3) Applied Materials Israel, Ltd. owns the following
subsidiary: 

Integrated Circuit Testing GmbH

Germany. 

(4) Applied Materials SPV1, Inc. owns the following
subsidiary: 

Applied Materials SPV2, Inc.

(d) 
       
     Delaware 

(5) AKT, Inc. owns the following subsidiary: 

AKT America, Inc.

California 

1  
       
     Sokudo Co., Ltd. is a joint venture which is
48% owned by Applied Materials, Inc., and 52% owned by Dainippon Screen Mtg.
Co., Ltd. 

1 

PLACE OF  

LEGAL ENTITY NAME  

INCORPORATION  

(6) Metron Technology, Inc. owns the following subsidiaries: 

Metron Technology (Benelux) B.V.

(e) 
       
     Netherlands 

Metron Technology (France) EURL

France 

Metron Technology (Deutschland) GmbH

Germany 

Metron Technology (Europa) Ltd.

(f) 
       
     United Kingdom 

Metron Technology (Israel) Ltd.

Israel 

Metron Technology (Italia) S.r.L.

Italy 

Intec Technology (S) Pte.

Singapore 

ECS Industries Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Metron Technology (Japan) K.K.

Japan 

Metron Technology (Asia) Ltd.

(g) 
       
     Hong Kong 

T.A. Kyser Co.

Nevada 

Metron Technology Corporation

(h) 
       
     California 

(7) Applied Films Corporation owns the following subsidiaries: 

AFCO GP, Inc.

Colorado 

Applied Films Taiwan Co., Ltd.

Taiwan 

Applied Films Japan Corporation

Japan 

AFCO C.V.

(k) 
       
     Netherland 

Applied Materials Fairfield Corp

(l) 
       
     Delaware 

Applied Films Asia Pacific Limited

(m) 
       
     Hong Kong 

PT Applied Materials Indonesia

Indonesia 

Applied Materials Zaventum

Belgium 

(8) Sokudo Co., Ltd. owns the following subsidiary: 

Sokudo USA, LLC Delaware

(a) Applied Materials South East Asia Pte. Ltd. owns
the following subsidiary: 

Applied Materials (AMSEA) Sdn Bhd

Malaysia 

(b) Applied Materials China, Ltd. owns the following
subsidiaries: 

Applied Materials China (Tianjin) Co., Ltd

. 
       
     P.R. China 

Applied Materials (China), Inc.

P.R. China 

(c) Applied Materials (China) Holdings, Ltd., owns the
following subsidiary: 

Applied Materials (Xi an), Ltd.

P.R. China 

(d) Applied Materials SPV2, Inc. owns the following
50-50 joint venture: 

eLith LLC

Delaware 

(e) Metron Technology (Benelux) B.V. owns the following
subsidiary: 

Metron Technology (Nordic) AB

Sweden 

(f) Metron Technology (Europa) Ltd. owns the following subsidiaries: 

Metron Technology (Ireland) Ltd.

Ireland 

Shieldcare Limited

Scotland 

2 

PLACE OF  

LEGAL ENTITY NAME  

INCORPORATION  

(g) Metron Technology (Asia) Ltd. owns the following
subsidiaries: 

Metron Technology (Hong Kong) Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Metron Technology (Far East) Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Metron Technology (Shanghai) Ltd.

P.R. China 

Metron Technology (Korea) Ltd.

Korea 

Metron Technology (Taiwan) Ltd.

Taiwan 

Metron Technology (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Metron Technology (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

Malaysia 

(h) Metron Technology Corporation owns the following
subsidiary: 

Metron Technology Distribution
Corporation

(i) 
       
     California 

(i) Metron Technology Distribution Corporation owns the following
subsidiary: 

ChemTrace

(j) 
       
     California 

ChemTrace Precision Cleaning, Inc.

California 

(j) ChemTrace owns the following subsidiary: 

ChemTrace Taiwan, Ltd. Taiwan

(k) AFCO C.V. owns the following subsidiaries: 

Applied Materials Europe BV

(o) 
       
     Netherlands 

Applied Materials Deutschland Holding

(n) 
       
     Germany 

GmbH
Applied Films Korea, Ltd.

Korea 

(l) Applied Materials Fairfield Corp owns the following subsidiaries: 

Vacuum Coating Technologies GmbH

Germany 

Vacuum Coating Technologies (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.

PRC 

(m) Applied Films Asia Pacific Limited owns the following
subsidiary: 

Applied Films China Co., Ltd.

PRC 

(n) Applied Materials Deutschland Holding GmbH owns the following
subsidiaries: 

Applied Materials Verwaltung GmbH

Germany 

Applied Materials GmbH   Co., KG

Germany 

(o) Applied Materials Europe BV owns the following
subsidiaries: 

Applied Materials GmbH

Germany 

Applied Materials France SARL

France 

WGTKTC1 Limited

United Kingdom 

Applied Materials Ireland Ltd.

Ireland 

Applied Materials Sweden AB

Sweden 

Applied Materials Italy Srl.

Italy 

Applied Materials Belgium N.V.

Belgium 

3 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 11
 f25754exv23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

exv23 

Exhibit 23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors 
Applied Materials, Inc.:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (No. 2-69114; 2-77987;
2-77988; 2-85545; 2-94205; 33-24530; 33-52072; 33-52076; 33-63847; 33-64285; 333-21367; 333-31289;
333-31291; 333-45007; 333-45011; 333-69193; 333-71241; 333-71243; 333-71245; 333-88777; 333-88779;
333-34118; 333-35396; 333-52518; 333-74764; 333-75698; 333-105355; 333-116393; 333-123531;
333-124711; 333-135977) on Form S-8 of Applied Materials, Inc. of our reports dated December 14,
2006, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Applied Materials, Inc. as of October 29,
2006 and October 30, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders 
equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended October 29, 2006, and
the related financial statement schedule, management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting as of October 29, 2006, and the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting as of October 29, 2006, which reports
appear in the October 29, 2006, annual report on Form 10-K of Applied Materials, Inc.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated
 financial statements, effective October 31, 2005, the
Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (R),
 Share-Based Payment , applying the modified-prospective method.

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 12
 f25754exv24.htm
 EXHIBIT 24

exv24 

Exhibit 24 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

The undersigned directors and officers of Applied Materials, Inc., a Delaware
corporation (the Company), hereby constitute and appoint Michael R. Splinter and
George S. Davis, and each of them, with full power to act without the other, the
undersigned s true and lawful attorney-in-fact, with full power of substitution and
resubstitution, for the undersigned and in the undersigned s name, place and stead in
the undersigned s capacity as an officer and/or director of the Company, to execute in
the name and on behalf of the undersigned an annual report of the Company on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2006 (the Report), under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, and to file such Report, with exhibits thereto and other
documents in connection therewith and any and all amendments thereto, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact, and each of
them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
necessary or desirable to be done and to take any other action of any type whatsoever
in connection with the foregoing which, in the opinion of such attorney-in-fact, may
be of benefit to, in the best interest of, or legally required of, the undersigned, it
being understood that the documents executed by such attorney-in-fact on behalf of the
undersigned pursuant to this Power of Attorney shall be in such form and shall contain
such terms and conditions as such attorney-in-fact may approve in such
attorney-in-fact s discretion.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , we have hereunto set our hands this  12  day of
December, 2006.

/s/ MICHAEL H. ARMACOST

Michael H. Armacost 
Director 

/s/ CHARLES Y.S. LIU

Charles Y.S. Liu 
Director 

/s/ ROBERT H. BRUST

Robert H. Brust 
Director 

/s/ JAMES C. MORGAN

James C. Morgan 
Chairman of the Board 

/s/ 

Deborah A. Coleman 
Director 

/s/ GERHARD H. PARKER

Gerhard H. Parker 
Director 

/s/ PHILIP V. GERDINE

Philip V. Gerdine 
Director 

/s/ WILLEM P. ROELANDTS

Willem P. Roelandts 
Director 

/s/ THOMAS J. IANNOTTI

Thomas J. Iannotti 
Director 

/s/ MICHAEL R. SPLINTER

Michael R. Splinter 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 13
 f25754exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Michael R. Splinter, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Applied Materials, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under
our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about
the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or
is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ MICHAEL R. SPLINTER

Michael R. Splinter

President, Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 14
 f25754exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATION 

I, George S. Davis, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Applied Materials,
Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting,
or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed
under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on
such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or
is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which
are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ GEORGE S. DAVIS

George S. Davis

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 15
 f25754exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION 

In connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Applied Materials, Inc. for the
fiscal year ended October 29, 2006, I, Michael R. Splinter, President, Chief Executive
Officer of Applied Materials, Inc., hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,
as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

2. 
       
     the information contained in this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
October 29, 2006 fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of Applied Materials, Inc. for the periods
presented therein. 

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ MICHAEL R. SPLINTER

Michael R. Splinter

President, Chief Executive Officer

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 16
 f25754exv32w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2 

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION 

In connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Applied Materials, Inc. for the
fiscal year ended October 29, 2006, I, George S. Davis, Senior Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer of Applied Materials, Inc., hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
that:

2. 
       
     the information contained in this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
October 29, 2006 fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of Applied Materials, Inc. for the periods
presented therein. 

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ GEORGE S. DAVIS

George S. Davis

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer

</EX-32.2>

