<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061030_10-K_edgar_data_102198_0001144204-06-044312_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1997298</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>279460</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1363658</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>74</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001144204-06-044312.hdr.sgml : 20061030
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061030172508
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001144204-06-044312
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060731
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061030
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061030

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COMPETITIVE TECHNOLOGIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000102198
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS [6794]
		IRS NUMBER:				362664428
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08696
		FILM NUMBER:		061173127

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		777 COMMERCE DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 100
		CITY:			FAIRFIELD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06825
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(203) 368-6044

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		777 COMMERCE DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 100
		CITY:			FAIRFIELD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06825

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UNIVERSITY PATENTS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JQdiaGK+jNVcKhdLPqiMNrSA4/DjWSWbdlcZ3Mg4eggHC8M6DepzKEOx303BLN7Q
 gdMiP+YOStpiv+BYEGWLSg==

 0001144204-06-044312.txt : 20061030

10-K
 1
 v055147_10-k.htm

Table
            of Contents   

UNITED
      STATES  

       SECURITIES
      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

       Washington,
      D.C. 20549  

FORM
      10-K  

(Mark
      One) 

OR 

Commission
      file number    1-8696  

COMPETITIVE
      TECHNOLOGIES, INC.  

      (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware 

36-2664428 

(State
                or other jurisdiction of 

(I.R.S.
                Employer Identification No.) 

incorporation
                or organization) 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Name
                of Each Exchange on 

Title
                of Each Class 

which
                Registered 

Common
                Stock ($.01 par value) 

American
                Stock Exchange 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes
 o 
      No  x  

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.    Yes
 o      No
 x  

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
      to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
      for
      the past 90 days.     x   
      Yes
 o  No 

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or   information
      statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
      amendment to this Form 10-K.  o  

Table
        of Contents   

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
      filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
      Act. 

      Large
      accelerated filer  o       Accelerated
      filer  o       Non-accelerated
      filer   x 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in rule
      12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes
 o 
      No  x  

The
      aggregate market value of the common equity held by non-affiliates of the
      registrant as of January 31, 2006 (the last business day of the registrant s
      most recently completed second fiscal quarter) was $29,244,491. 

The
      number of shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding as of October 23,
      2006, was 8,009,380 shares. 

DOCUMENT
                OF WHICH PORTIONS 

ARE
                INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

LOCATION
                IN THIS FORM 10-K 

Registrant s
                definitive proxy statement 

Part
                III - Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 

Page
          2 

Table
          of Contents   

Competitive
      Technologies, Inc.  

TABLE
      OF CONTENTS  

PART
                I   

Forward-Looking
                Statements  

4 

Item
                1. 

Business  

4 

Item
                1A. 

Risk
                Factors  

10 

Item
                1B. 

Unresolved
                Staff Comments  

16 

Item
                2. 

Properties  

16 

Item
                3. 

Legal
                Proceedings  

16 

Item
                4. 

Submission
                of Matters to a Vote of Security
                Holders  

21 

Item
                4A. 

Executive
                Officers of the Registrant  

21 

PART
                II   

Item
                5. 

Market
                for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
                Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

22 

Item
                6. 

Selected
                Financial Data  

23 

Item
                7. 

Management s
                Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                and Results of Operations  

24 

Item
                7A. 

Quantitative
                and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
                Risk  

39 

Item
                8. 

Financial
                Statements and Supplementary
                Data  

40 

Item
                9. 

Changes
                in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
                and Financial Disclosure  

75 

Item
                9A. 

Controls
                and Procedures  

75 

Item
                9B. 

Other
                Information  

75 

PART
                III   

Item
                10. 

Directors
                and Executive Officers of the
                Registrant  

75 

Item
                11. 

Executive
                Compensation  

76 

Item
                12. 

Security
                Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
                Management  

76 

Item
                13. 

Certain
                Relationships and Related
                Transactions  

76 

Item
                14. 

Principal
                Accounting Fees and Services  

76 

PART
                IV   

Item
                15. 

Exhibits
                and Financial Statement
                Schedules  

76 

Signatures  

77 

Exhibit
                Index  

78 

Page
          3 

Table
          of Contents   

PART
      I    

Forward-Looking
      Statements   

Statements
      about our future expectations, including development plans, and all other
      statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than historical facts,
      are
 forward-looking statements  within the meaning of applicable Federal Securities
      Laws, and are not guarantees of future performance. When and if used in this
      Form 10-K, the words  may,   will,   should,   anticipate,   believe,   intend, 
 plan,   expect,   estimate,   approximate,  and similar expressions, as they
      relate to us or our business or management, are intended to identify such
      forward-looking statements. These statements involve risks and uncertainties
      related to our ability to obtain rights to market technologies, market
      acceptance of and competition for our licensed technologies,   growth
      strategies and strategic plans, operating performance and financing of our
      operations, industry trends,   and
      other
      risks and uncertainties inherent in our business, including those set forth
      under the caption  Risk Factors  in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
      for the year ended July 31, 2006, and other factors that may be described in
      our
      other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and are subject
      to
      change at any time. Our actual results could differ materially from these
      forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any
      forward-looking statement. 

ITEM
              1.     
             
                  BUSINESS   

Overview:
      Technology Commercialization Services  

Competitive
      Technologies, Inc. ( CTT ), was incorporated in Delaware in 1971, succeeding an
      Illinois corporation incorporated in 1968. CTT and its subsidiaries
      (collectively, the  registrant,   we,   our,  or  us ), provide technology
      transfer, selling and licensing services focused on the technology needs of
      our
      customers, matching those requirements with commercially viable technology
      solutions, bridging the gap between market demand and raw innovation. We do
      this
      in two ways. First, we continually develop relationships with the technology
      and
      research arms of universities, independent research institutions, companies,
      individual inventors, patent attorneys and patent or other intellectual property
      holders, who we then formally represent, becoming our  Clients . From our
      Clients we obtain either the right to serve as their agent, or receive a license
      from them to their invention, patent or intellectual property rights
      (collectively, the  Technology ). Our goal is to make a profit for us and our
      Clients by finding customers, or end users, who have a use for the particular
      Technology, and granting them a license or a sublicense to the Technology either
      to commercialize (sell) it, or further develop the Technology. Second, as we
      also have contacts and relationships with those who have a need or use for
      particular Technologies (usually other businesses), who may or may not be
      current customers of ours, we match their needs with one of our Technologies
      ( reverse marketing ), or find a Technology to fit their needs. Since we focus
      on both Technologies available (Client side) and Technologies wanted or needed
      (customer side), we believe that we provide a valuable service in matching
      market needs to Technology solutions. Using our services provides benefits
      to
      both the Technology provider and the user of the Technology; the Client, or
      Technology provider, can focus on research and invention, rather than on selling
      and marketing, as we effectively become their marketing department, and the
      Technology user, or customer, can focus on selling and marketing, rather than
      on
      research and development. We also work to maintain and legally enforce our
      Clients  and our own patent rights with respect to Technologies, and monitor and
      address any infringement. Our goal is to maximize the value of Technologies
      for
      the benefit of our Clients, customers and shareholders. 

When
      we
      acquire the rights to commercialize a Technology, we may acquire exclusive
      or
      non-exclusive rights, worldwide rights or rights limited to a specific
      geographic area. When we license or sublicense rights to our customers, we
      may
      grant exclusive or non-exclusive rights, worldwide or geographically limited
      rights and/or we may limit rights to a defined field of use. Technologies can
      be
      either early stage, mid stage, or late stage. Currently, we define early stage
      Technologies as those that require further development and/or testing and
      regulatory approval before they can be commercialized 

Page
          4 

Table
          of Contents   

and
      generate revenues, such period of time usually being in excess of 30 months.
      Mid
      stage are defined as Technologies that require some further refinement, but
      we
      believe are closer (approximately 15 - 30 months) to generating revenues than
      early stage. Late stage Technologies are fully developed and ready to be
      marketed, with the potential to generate revenues within 15 months. We strive
      to
      have a balanced portfolio with Technologies in each stage of the life cycle;
      our
      goal is to have over half of our portfolio in late stage Technologies.
      Currently, we have approximately half our portfolio in late stage Technologies,
      and we are focused on correcting this imbalance in our portfolio. The stage
      that
      a Technology is classified in may change at any time based upon information
      then
      available to us. In addition, how we define a stage may change. 

We
      identify and commercialize (or find companies that will commercialize for us)
      innovative Technologies in life and physical sciences, electronics, and
      nanotechnologies. Life sciences include medical testing, diagnostics,
      pharmaceuticals, biotechnologies, medical devices and other medical or
      biological applications. Physical sciences include chemical, display, and
      environmental applications. Electronics include communications, semiconductors,
      Internet related, e-commerce and consumer electronics applications.
      Nanotechnologies deal with the manipulation of microscopic particles into useful
      arrangements, and smart or novel materials (a nano particle is one thousand
      times smaller than the width of a human hair). We currently have Technologies
      in
      each of these areas, though a majority of our revenues come from the life
      sciences area. 

We
      estimate that over the years we have licensed nearly 500 technologies to and
      from corporations, and can count as our Clients a number of major universities
      and inventors. 

In
      2006,
      we announced a new business initiative to perform valuation and other technology
      transfer services on a fee-for-service basis to take advantage of our in-house
      experience and skill sets to generate additional revenues. We expect customers
      for our services to be individuals, universities, law firms and companies in
      the
      intellectual property market. We expect this initiative to take up to three
      years to fully develop. We also are offering to post on our web site,
   www.competitivetech.net   ,
      Technologies as available for sale or license, positioning such Technology
      in
      easy reach of anyone searching for a certain Technology. We then can assist,
      if
      needed, in negotiations to license or sell the Technology. This helps us in
      two
      ways: it allows us access to more Technologies than we could review and market
      individually; and it gives us more exposure in the intellectual property
      marketplace. 

Technology
      Acquisition and Portfolio  

We
      continue to work to expand the number of universities that we have relationships
      with to increase the number of Clients and Technologies we represent, and are
      developing programs and marketing specifically designed to establish us as
      the
      premier technology commercialization company. One of our strategic goals is
      to
      have a  pipeline  of hundreds of Technologies to work with to increase our
      chances of generating recurring revenues over the long-term. 

In
      addition to contacts with universities, independent research institutions and
      inventors, we learn of Technologies available when inventors or intellectual
      property holders hear of our services through publications, news releases,
      events, or by word-of-mouth, and come to us for evaluation and assistance.
      An
      internal committee, established specifically for the purpose of evaluating
      leads
      and accepting or rejecting Technologies, continuously evaluates all potential
      Technologies. Factors in the evaluation process include, but are not limited
      to,
      strength of and ability to protect the intellectual property, life stage,
      further development time (if any) of the Technology, ability to be paired with
      an existing Technology we have, marketability, market size, potential
      profitability of the Technology, and whether we have relationships with
      potential users of the Technology. A majority of the Technologies initially
      reviewed are rejected. As to those that are accepted, a process then occurs
      whereby we obtain representation of the Technology. Although when we accept
      a
      Technology we believe that we have a chance to market the Technology
      successfully, market and other forces beyond our control may force us to revise
      our outlook and possibly reject the Technology even after we have accepted
      it,
      or spend more time and expense than 

Page
          5 

Table
          of Contents   

we
      originally planned to protect and market the Technology. In addition, certain
      Technologies, once accepted, may be dormant for a period of time until a new
      customer or application is identified for them. As explained in    Technology
      Protection and Litigation   ,
      some
      Technologies may become involved in patent infringement and/or
      litigation. 

Generally,
      early stage Technologies have limited current revenue potential but may have
      high long-term revenue potential, while mid stage and late stage Technologies
      may produce more current revenues but may have limited long-term revenue
      potential, depending on the time left on the related patent. To be successful,
      we must review and evaluate hundreds of Technologies since most Technologies
      we
      review initially are rejected, and of those that we do accept into our
      portfolio, we expect that many ultimately will end up being commercially
      unsuccessful, produce little or no revenues, and eventually be abandoned. We
      expect that others will produce steady revenues and profitability for a period
      that could last several years, and a small number will be very successful,
      producing significant annual revenues for several years, through the life of
      the
      patent. When we accept a Technology, we try to obtain the rights to improvements
      and/or refinements that may extend the patentable life of the Technology and
      the
      potential revenues generated. Because of these characteristics, revenues (and
      profitability) will fluctuate, in some cases significantly, from year to year,
      and bottom line net income as a percentage of revenues, (return on revenues),
      may be highly variable. If revenues are not generated as anticipated, we will
      incur a loss. Since we may not know a Technology s revenue potential right away,
      and it often takes a few years before we earn significant revenues from a
      Technology, we review our portfolio continuously, adding and removing
      Technologies as deemed necessary. In some cases, more generous license terms,
      principally financial, are offered to the initial licensees of a Technology
      than
      those offered at a later date. 

When
      we
      review and evaluate a Technology, we usually first sign a non-disclosure
      confidentiality agreement with the Client or prospective Client. This allows
      us
      access to non-public information and other details about the Technology that
      others are not given, which we agree to keep confidential. When we commercialize
      the Technology we require similar non-disclosure confidentiality agreements
      from
      prospective customers. We include bilateral non-disclosure and confidentiality
      provisions as part of nearly all license and sublicenses granted to protect
      the
      value of the Technology, and our customers  business dealings and plans. As a
      result of these obligations, as well as federal regulations on disclosure of
      non-public information, we may not be able to disclose, and do not disclose
      except under limited conditions, details about licenses and sublicenses granted
      or Technologies that we are evaluating, other than certain limited information
      that we believe is necessary for an understanding of our financial
      results. 

Marketing
      Technologies  

We
      commercialize our Technologies through many methods, from contacts in research
      and development, legal firms, marketing and executive levels at major
      corporations, to attendance at seminars and trade shows. We also perform market
      research to determine the most likely users of Technologies, and we may contact
      current or prospective customers to determine if they have an interest in or
      another use for a new Technology. 

Technology
      Protection and Litigation  

An
      important part of our business is protecting our Technologies from patent
      infringement, both domestically and internationally. We sometimes assist in
      the
      preparation of initial patent applications, and often are responsible for
      prosecuting and maintaining patents. Unfortunately, patent enforcement also
      is a
      part of our business due to both unintentional and willful patent infringement.
      In the case of unintentional infringement, the infringer usually does not know
      or realize that a patent exists. These cases often can be resolved by the
      granting of a license. In cases of willful infringement, certain infringers
      will
      continue to infringe absent legal action. In addition, companies will attempt
      to
      find  work-arounds  to avoid paying us and our Clients royalties for the use of
      our Technologies, and at times these  work-arounds  may be successful. We defend
      our Technologies on behalf of our Clients, CTT and existing 

Page
          6 

Table
          of Contents   

licensees,
      and pursue patent infringement cases through litigation, if necessary. Such
      actions and cases, even if settled out of court, may take several years to
      complete, and the expenses of these matters may be borne by our Clients, by
      us,
      or shared. Any proceeds then earned by the action usually are shared in the
      same
      proportion as the costs. As a result, we may incur significant expenses in
      some
      years and be reimbursed for them through proceeds of awards or settlements
      several years later. Patent law provides for the potential of treble damages
      in
      the event of a willful infringement, but such awards are provided solely at
      the
      discretion of the court and are not guaranteed as a matter of law. 

Revenue
      Generation  

We
      earn
      revenues principally from licensing Technology which generates royalty fees
      based on usage or sales of the Technology. Generally, the agreements we enter
      into with our Clients and customers are for the duration of the Technology
      life,
      which usually is determined by applicable patent law. When our customers pay
      us
      royalties, we share the fees with our Clients. When we receive periodic reports
      of sales of licensed products and royalties earned from our customers, or we
      receive payment, whichever occurs first, we record revenues for our portion
      of
      the royalty, and record our obligation to our Clients for their portion. The
      revenues we record are solely our share of the gross revenues, net of our
      Clients  shares, which usually are fixed percentages. For early stage
      Technologies that may not be ready for commercial development without further
      research, we may receive annual minimum royalty payments and/or milestone
      payments based on research progress or subsequent sublicense or joint venture
      proceeds. In certain of our sublicense or license arrangements, we may receive
      an upfront license fee upon execution of the license. Our fees generally are
      non-refundable, and, except for annual minimum royalties due, usually are not
      creditable against future royalties. In certain cases, we may waive the first
      year or few years royalty fees in consideration for the upfront fee. In some
      cases, we apply the upfront fee or initial royalty fees to reimburse patent
      prosecution and/or  maintenance costs incurred by either party. In these
      cases, we record the payments as a reduction of expense, and not as revenue.
      If
      the reimbursement belongs solely to our Client, we record no revenue or expense.
      As a result, a new Technology may not generate significant revenues in its
      early
      years. 

We
      set
      forth the terms of our licensing arrangements in separate written agreements
      with our Clients and with our customers. Generally, we enter into single element
      arrangements with our customers, under which we have no significant obligations,
      after executing the agreements, other than patent prosecution and maintenance.
      In certain limited instances, we may enter into multiple element arrangements
      under which we may have continuing service obligations. Unlike single element
      arrangements, the revenue recognition for which is described above, we defer
      all
      revenue from multiple element arrangements until we have delivered all the
      required elements. We determine delivery of elements based on the verifiable
      objective evidence available. We also may have milestone billing arrangements,
      whereby our policy generally is to recognize non-refundable, upfront fees
      ratably over the entire arrangement and milestone payments as the specified
      milestone is achieved, though we evaluate such billing arrangements on a
      case-by-case basis, and record revenues as appropriate. We do not have any
      multiple element or significant milestone billing arrangements at this time,
      but
      we have had such arrangements in the past and could have such arrangements
      in
      the future. 

Page
          7 

Table
          of Contents   

Currently,
      we have a concentration of retained royalties derived from four Technologies.
      We
      actively are marketing our other current Technologies, and seeking new
      Technologies both to mitigate this concentration of revenues and provide us
      with
      a more steady future revenue stream. The Technologies that produced either
      revenues equal to or exceeding 15% of our total retained royalties revenue,
      or
      at least $250,000 in 2006, 2005 or 2004 were: 

As
      a
      percentage of total retained royalties for the same periods, these Technologies
      represented: 

The
      homocysteine assay (life sciences) is a diagnostic blood test used to determine
      homocysteine levels and a corresponding deficiency of folate or vitamin B12.
      Studies suggest that high levels of homocysteine may be a primary risk factor
      for cardiovascular, vascular and Alzheimer s diseases, and rheumatoid arthritis.
      Our U.S. patent that covers this homocysteine assay expires in July 2007. For
      further information see    Item
      7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations   . 

Ethyol
      (life sciences) is an agent that reduces certain side effects of chemotherapy,
      and is licensed by Southern Research Institute ( SRI ), exclusively to
      MedImmune, Inc. (formerly U.S. BioScience, Inc.). Pursuant to an agreement
      between CTT and SRI, SRI pays us up to a maximum of $500,000 per calendar year
      from Ethyol license income it receives. Since calendar 2002 we have received
      the
      maximum revenue each calendar year. This patent expires in December
      2010. 

Gallium
      arsenide (electronics) is used to improve semiconductor operating
      characteristics. U.S. patents were issued from March 1983 to May 1989. Patents
      expired starting in May 2001 and the last patent expired in September 2006.
      After September 2006, we will not receive any significant future royalties
      for
      this Technology. 

The
      current year revenue related to our sexual dysfunction (life sciences)
      Technology was due to the receipt of an annual minimum license fee. The minimum
      fee is due until such time as the Technology is commercialized, whereupon
      royalties will be due if higher than the minimum. The increase in revenues
      in
      2005 was due to a settlement with Palatin Technologies, Inc. ( Palatin ), our
      licensee, related to a certain fees received by Palatin in 2005. Pursuant to
      our
      license, we are entitled to a portion of fees Palatin receives. For further
      information, see   
      Item 3. Legal Proceedings.    This
      Technology consists of a therapeutic drug to treat male and female sexual
      dysfunction which is undergoing testing prior to approval. Final approval,
      assuming testing is successful, is still several years away. 

We
      also
      earn revenues from royalty legal awards. Such awards may be significant,
      generally are non-recurring and the result of successful patent enforcement
      actions, and may include punitive damages, attorneys  fees, court costs and
      interest. Out-of-court settlements may occur prior to or during trials. Revenues
      from out of court settlements usually are included in retained
      royalties. 

Page
          8 

Table
          of Contents   

Other
      Technologies in our life sciences portfolio (many of which are subject to
      testing, clinical trials and approvals) include: a nanoparticle bone cement
      biomaterial (licensed to Soteira Inc.), which has a broad range of potential
      applications, including dental, spinal and other bone related applications
      (currently undergoing testing and we expect it will take two-to-three years
      for
      approval); a sunless tanning agent that may prevent skin cancer from unprotected
      exposure to the sun (licensed to Clinuvel Pharmaceuticals, Limited (Australia));
      Therapik , a device that alleviates the effect of insect bites and stings; a
      Technology that cost-effectively is used to reduce cholesterol in dairy
      products, including milk and cheese, without sacrificing taste or nutritional
      value; a green tea based cleanser formulation used in skin products; and a
      new
      lupus detection test. 

Our
      electronics portfolio includes: an early stage video and audio signal processing
      Technology licensed in the Motion Picture Electronics Group visual patent
      portfolio pool (MPEG 4 Visual), and used in streaming video products for
      personal computers and wireless devices, including mobile phones; an event
      driven information system that uses radio frequency identification Technology,
      used for event driven tracking of definable assets and personnel; encryption
      Technology that operates at high speeds with low memory requirements to secure
      applications used on the internet, telecommunications, smart cards and
      e-commerce; and AccuSpeech , an interactive software platform designed to help
      individuals master English when it is not their native language. 

Our
      physical sciences portfolio includes: a high brightness light emitting diode
      that provides twice the light intensity with low power consumption without
      an
      increase in costs; clean, renewable fuel technologies, including patented
      alternative fuel formulations and a method to convert municipal waste to fuel
      grade ethanol and certain marketable chemicals; and a method for accelerating
      steel cutting that has a variety of uses. 

Retained
      Royalties from Foreign Sources  

We
      have
      developed relationships with Asian companies seeking technology solutions.
      Retained royalties received from foreign licensees totaled approximately
      $477,000, $757,000, and $520,000, in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Of
      the
      foreign sourced royalties received, $334,000, $402,000 and $397,000, in 2006,
      2005 and 2004, respectively, were from Japanese licenses. 

Investments  

From
      time
      to time in the past, in addition to providing other forms of assistance, we
      have
      funded certain development-stage companies to exploit specific
      Technologies. 

Employees  

As
      of
      October 2, 2006, we employed 20 people (full-time equivalents). We also employ
      independent consultants who provide us with business development services under
      contracts with us. In addition to the diverse technical, intellectual property,
      legal, financial, marketing and business expertise of our professional team,
      from time to time we rely on advice from outside technical and professional
      specialists to satisfy our Clients  and customers  unique technology
      needs. 

Code
      of Ethics  

Our
      Board
      of Directors adopted a revised Corporate Standards of Conduct for all directors,
      officers, employees and consultants in January 2005. A copy of it was filed
      as
      Exhibit 14.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 14,
      2005. 

Available
      Information  

We
      make
      available without charge copies of our Annual Report, Annual Report on Form
      10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, any
      amendments to those reports and 

Page
          9 

Table
          of Contents   

any
      other
      reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
      ( SEC ) on or through our website,     http://www.competitivetech.net    ,
      as soon
      as reasonably practicable after they are filed. The content of our website
      is
      not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or any other
      report we file with the SEC. You may request a paper copy of materials we file
      with the SEC by calling us at (203) 368-6044. 

You
      also
      may read and copy materials we file with the SEC on the SEC s website at
    http://www.sec.gov    ,
      or at
      the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You
      may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling
      (800) 732-0330. 

Fiscal
      Year  

Our
      fiscal year ends July 31, and our first, second, third and fourth quarters
      end
      October 31, January 31, April 30 and July 31, respectively. 

ITEM
              1A.     
             
                  RISK
                FACTORS   

The
      risk
      factors described below are not all inclusive. All of these risk factors should
      be considered carefully when evaluating our results, operations, financial
      position, strategies and trends. We undertake no obligation to update any
      forward-looking statement or risk factor. Additionally, there may be other
      risks
      and uncertainties that we have not highlighted herein that may become material
      factors affecting our operations and business success. 

We
      derived more than 86% of our retained royalties in fiscal 2006 from four
      Technologies     .   

We
      derived approximately $3,924,000, or 86%, of 2006 retained royalties from four
      Technologies: $3,196,000, or 70%, from the homocysteine assay, $483,000, or
      11%,
      from Ethyol, $184,000, or 4%, from gallium arsenide patents, and $60,000, or
      1%,
      from sexual dysfunction patents. In fiscal 2005, we derived approximately 96%
      of
      our retained royalties from the same four Technologies. 

Our
      U.S.
      patent that covers the homocysteine assay expires in July 2007, and we will
      not
      receive significant revenues from this Technology after that date. Our retained
      royalties from Ethyol are limited to a maximum of $500,000 per calendar year,
      and since calendar 2002 we have received the maximum. We expect Ethyol retained
      royalties to continue at their 2006 level for several years (this patent expires
      in December 2010). In September 2006, the last of the gallium arsenide patents
      expired and we will not receive significant royalty revenue after that date.
      For
      the impact of expiring licenses, see below. 

Such
      a
      concentration of revenues makes our operations vulnerable to changes in and/or
      patent expiration of any one of them, especially the homocysteine assay, and
      such changes could have a significant adverse impact on our financial
      position. 

Page
          10 

Table
          of Contents   

Certain
      of our licensed patents have recently expired or will expire in the near future
      and we may not be able to replace their royalty revenues.  

In
      2006,
      we derived retained royalties from licenses on twenty-two (22) patented
      Technologies. We expect royalties from eleven (11) of those patented
      Technologies to expire in the next five years. Those patented Technologies
      represented approximately 92% of our retained royalties in 2006. Fiscal 2006
      retained royalties of approximately $3,199,500, or 70%, $280,200, or 6%, and
      $484,300, or 11%, respectively, were from patents expiring in fiscal 2007,
      2009
      and 2011. The loss of these royalties, especially the homocysteine assay, will
      materially, adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to replace
      them with revenues from other licenses or other sources. Since it often takes
      two or more years for a Technology to produce significant revenues, we must
      continuously seek new sources of future revenues. 

In
      three of the last five fiscal years, we have incurred significant net losses
      and
      negative cash flows, and our ability to finance future losses is limited, and
      may involve significant dilution to existing stockholders.  

The
      table
      below summarizes our consolidated results of operations and cash flows for
      the
      five years ended   J  uly
      31,
      2006: 

The
      recurring revenue stream we have currently is insufficient for us to be
      profitable with our present cost structure. In 2004 and 2005, we were profitable
      because of large, upfront license fees received related to our homocysteine
      Technology, the magnitude of which was unusually high and did not recur in
      2006,
      and infrequently occurring revenues, including legal awards and dividends.
      Without these revenues, we would have incurred a loss in both years, and for
      all
      of the five years ended July 31, 2006. To return to and sustain profitability,
      we must increase recurring revenues by successfully licensing Technologies
      with
      current and long-term revenue streams, and we must continually add new such
      licenses. In addition, we must control our costs, including litigation related
      costs. Without such actions, our current cash position will
      deteriorate. 

Our
      future royalty revenues, obtaining rights to new Technologies, granting
      licenses, enforcing intellectual property rights, and profits or losses are
      subject to many factors outside our control, or that we currently cannot
      anticipate, including technological changes and developments, economic cycles,
      and the ability of our licensees to commercialize our Technologies successfully.
      Consequently, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to be
      profitable. Although we cannot be assured that we will be successful in these
      efforts, we believe that our new business plan initiated in 2006, and our
      capital resources will sustain us at least through fiscal 2007. 

We
      have
      no outstanding debt or available credit facility, and we believe that it would
      be very difficult to obtain any form of debt financing due to the current
      composition of our balance sheet, and 

Page
          11 

Table
          of Contents   

unpredictable
      nature of our annual cash flows. Thus, our financing options currently are
      limited, and we must rely on cash on hand and cash flows, if any, from
      operations, though this situation could change in the future. We did obtain
      equity financing in 2004 which we completed in 2006. We continue to review
      financing options for our business, which may in the future include more equity
      financing. If we do enter into an equity financing arrangement in the future,
      and if we do sell shares of our common stock pursuant to such financing to
      raise
      cash to operate the business, then existing holders of our common stock may
      suffer significant dilution to their equity position. 

We
      depend on our relationships with inventors to gain access to new Technologies
      and inventions. If we fail to maintain existing relationships or to develop
      new
      relationships, we may have fewer Technologies and inventions available to
      generate revenues. In addition, technology can change rapidly and industry
      standards are continually evolving. This often makes products obsolete, or
      results in short product lifecycles. Our profitability also depends on our
      licensees  ability to adapt to such changes.  

We
      do not
      invent new Technologies or products ourselves. We depend on relationships with
      universities, corporations, governmental agencies, research institutions,
      inventors, and others to provide us with technology-based opportunities that
      we
      can develop into profitable royalty-bearing licenses. Our failure to maintain
      these relationships or to develop new relationships could adversely affect
      our
      business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to forge
      new relationships or to maintain our current relationships, we may be unable
      to
      identify new Technology-based opportunities and royalty-bearing licenses. We
      also are dependent on our Clients  abilities to develop new Technologies,
      introduce new products, and adapt to changes in technology and economic
      needs. 

Further,
      we cannot be certain that our current or any new relationships will provide
      the
      volume or quality of available new Technologies necessary to sustain our
      business. In some cases, universities and other sources of new Technologies
      may
      compete against us as they seek to develop and commercialize these Technologies
      themselves, or through entities that they develop, finance and/or control.
      In
      other cases, universities receive financing for basic research from companies
      in
      exchange for the exclusive right to commercialize any resulting inventions.
      These and other strategies may reduce the number of Technology sources
      (potential Clients) to whom we can market our services. If we are unable to
      secure new sources of Technology, it could have a material adverse effect on
      our
      business, operating results and financial condition. 

We
      receive most of our revenues from customers over whom we have no             control.  

We
      rely
      on royalties received from our customers for revenues. The royalties we receive
      from our customers depend on their efforts and expenditures and we have no
      control over their efforts or expenditures. Additionally, our customers 
development of new products involves great risk since many new Technologies
      do
      not become commercially profitable products despite extensive development
      efforts. Our license agreements do not require customers to advise us of
      problems they may encounter in attempting to develop commercial products and
      they usually treat such information as confidential. We expect that our
      customers will encounter problems frequently. Our customers  failure to resolve
      such problems may result in a material adverse effect on our business, operating
      results and financial condition. 

Strong
      competition within our industry may reduce our Client base.  

We
      compete with universities, law firms, venture capital firms and other Technology
      commercialization firms for Technology licensing opportunities. Many
      organizations offer some aspect of Technology transfer services, and some are
      well established and have more financial and human resources than we do. This
      market is highly fragmented and participants frequently focus on a specific
      technology area. 

Page
          12 

Table
          of Contents   

A
      former President and Chief Executive Officer and CTT have been named in a civil
      suit filed by the SEC. Until this matter is resolved, our stock price may be
      adversely impacted, and our operations and expenses may be negatively
      affected.  

On
      August
      11, 2004, the SEC filed a civil suit naming Competitive Technologies, Inc.,
      our
      former President and Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) from 2001, and six
      individual brokers in the United States District Court for the District of
      Connecticut, alleging that from at least July 1998 to June 2001, CTT was
      involved in a scheme to manipulate the price of our stock. The case relates
      to
      our 1998 stock repurchase program under which we repurchased shares of our
      common stock from time to time during the period from October 28, 1998 to March
      22, 2001. CTT was named as a defendant in the suit due to the alleged conduct
      of
      our former CEO, whose conduct in connection with the stock repurchase program
      was imputed to CTT as a matter of law. Relating to CTT, the SEC in the suit
      seeks a permanent injunction prohibiting us from further violations of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and a civil penalty pursuant to Section 21(d)(3)
      of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (this section provides for maximum
      penalties of $550,000 for a corporate entity and $110,000 per individual).
      On
      September 24, 2004, we responded to this civil suit, and filed a motion to
      dismiss the suit. On October 15, 2004, the SEC filed a motion opposing our
      motion to dismiss the suit, and o  n
      July
      21, 2005, our motion to dismiss the suit was denied. On April 10, 2006, we
      filed
      a motion for summary judgment to dismiss the case. On June 15, 2006, the SEC
      filed a motion to oppose our motion for summary judgment. Further action in
      this
      case is pending. If our motion for summary judgement is not successful, we
      expect that the case will go to trial sometime in 2007. Defense costs incurred
      since August 2004 relating to this suit are being covered by our directors
      and
      officers insurance carrier, however, we cannot be certain that all future costs,
      including potential fines and penalties, will be covered by our insurance
      carrier. 

For
      further information, see    Item
      3. Legal Proceedings.  

Until
      this matter is resolved, our stock price may be adversely impacted, and our
      operations and expenses may be negatively affected. 

Our
      By-Laws provide that we will indemnify our directors, officers, employees and
      agents in certain circumstances. We carry directors and officers liability
      insurance (subject to deductibles) to reduce these financial
      obligations.  

Our
      directors, officers, employees and agents may claim indemnification in certain
      circumstances. We are currently exposed to potential indemnification claims
      in
      connection with the civil suit filed by the SEC (see    Item
      3. Legal Proceedings   ). 

We
      seek
      to limit and reduce our potential financial obligations for indemnification
      by
      carrying directors and officers liability insurance (subject to
      deductibles). 

We
      are
      currently involved in lawsuits that historically have involved significant
      legal
      expenses. In addition, our most recent former President and CEO filed a
      complaint against us seeking certain damages, and we have filed a complaint
      against him for monetary and punitive damages. If the courts or regulatory
      agencies in these suits or actions decide against us, this could have a material
      adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
      In addition, legal fees and other costs we incurred in 2006 relating to these
      cases were significant, and the amount of costs we incur in the future may
      be
      significant.  

For
      a
      complete description of all of the lawsuits we are involved in, see    Item
      3. Legal Proceedings.  

Page
          13 

Table
          of Contents   

Two
      of
      our officers have demanded a significant amount of additional compensation
      from
      us.  

On
      September 29, 2006, we received a demand letter from an attorney representing
      two of our officers (neither of whom is our Chief Executive, Operating or
      Financial Officer), demanding approximately $300,000 in total for commission
      payments alleged to be due them for 2006 under our prior annual incentive
      compensation plan, which was terminated in November 2005. These individuals
      received commission payments in 2005 related to new homocysteine licenses
      granted in 2005, and are claiming that the company is obligated, and they were
      promised that the payments would continue for a period of two (2) years
      thereafter. It also is claimed in the letter that these individuals anticipate
      that they would be entitled to at least an aggregate additional $350,000 in
      commission payments in 2007. We are investigating this matter, but expect to
      vigorously defend any litigation that may arise from it. Pending completion
      of
      the investigation, we have put these individuals on administrative leave with
      pay. We cannot estimate the amount of costs we may incur relating to this
      matter, but the costs may be significant, although a portion of the costs may
      be
      covered by insurance. 

Our
      revenue growth depends on our ability to understand the Technology requirements
      of our customers in the context of their markets. If we fail to understand
      their
      Technology needs or markets, we limit our ability to meet those needs and to
      generate revenues.  

We
      believe that by focusing on the Technology needs of our customers, we are better
      positioned to generate revenues by providing Technology solutions to them.
      In
      this way, the market demands of our customers drive our revenues. The better
      we
      understand their markets and requirements, the better we are able to identify
      and obtain effective Technology solutions for our customers. We rely on our
      professional staff and contract business development consultants to understand
      our customers  technical, commercial, and market requirements and constraints,
      and to identify and obtain effective Technology solutions for them. 

Our
      success depends on our ability to attract and retain key
      personnel.  

Our
      success depends on the knowledge, efforts and abilities of a small number of
      key
      personnel. Dr. D. J. Freed is our President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael
      E. Kiley is our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and Michael
      D. Davidson is our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We rely
      on
      our professional staff and contract business development consultants to identify
      intellectual property opportunities and technology solutions, and to negotiate
      and close license agreements. Competition for personnel with the necessary
      breadth and depth of experience is intense and we cannot assure you that we
      will
      be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. If we are unable
      to hire and retain highly qualified professionals and consultants, especially
      with our small number of staff, our revenues, prospects, financial condition
      and
      future activities could be materially adversely affected. 

Our
      customers, and therefore we, depend on receiving government approvals to exploit
      certain licensed products commercially.  

Commercial
      exploitation of some licensed patents may require the approval of governmental
      regulatory agencies, especially in the life sciences area, and there is no
      assurance that those agencies will grant such approvals. In the United States,
      the principal governmental agency involved is the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration ( FDA ). The FDA s approval process is rigorous, time consuming
      and costly. Unless and until a licensee obtains approval for a product requiring
      such approval, the licensee may not sell the product in the U.S., and therefore
      we will not receive royalty income based on U.S. sales of the
      product. 

Page
          14 

Table
          of Contents   

If
      our
      Clients and we are unable to protect the intellectual property underlying our
      licenses, or to enforce our patents adequately, we may be unable to exploit
      such
      licensed patents or Technologies successfully.  

Our
      success in earning revenues from licenses is subject to the risk that issued
      patents may be declared invalid, that patents may not issue on patent
      applications, or that competitors may circumvent or infringe our licensed
      patents and thereby render our licensed patents not commercially viable. In
      addition, when all patents underlying a license expire, our royalties from
      that
      license cease, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace
      those royalties with royalty revenues from new or other licenses. 

Patent
      litigation has increased; it can be expensive and may delay or prevent our
      customers  products from entering the market.  

Our
      Clients and/or we may pursue patent infringement litigation or interference
      proceedings against sellers of products that we believe infringe our patent
      rights. Holders of conflicting patents or sellers of competing products also
      may
      challenge our patents in patent infringement litigation or interference
      proceedings. For a description of proceedings in which we are currently
      involved, see    Item
      3. Legal Proceedings.  

We
      cannot
      assure you that our Clients and/or we will be successful in any such litigation
      or proceeding, and the results and costs of such litigation or proceeding may
      materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial
      condition. 

Developing
      new products, creating effective commercialization strategies for Technologies,
      and enhancing those products and strategies are subject to inherent risks.
      These
      risks include unanticipated delays, unrecoverable expenses, technical problems
      or difficulties, and the possibility that development funds will be
      insufficient. The occurrence of any one or more of these risks could make us
      abandon or substantially change our Technology commercialization
      strategy.  

Our
      success depends on, among other factors, our Clients developing new or improved
      Technologies, our customers  products meeting targeted cost and performance
      objectives for large-scale production, and our customers  ability to adapt
      Technologies to satisfy industry standards, satisfy consumer expectations and
      needs, and bring their products to market before the market is saturated. They
      may encounter unanticipated technical or other problems that result in increased
      costs or substantial delays in introducing and marketing new products. Current
      and future products may not be reliable or durable under actual operating
      conditions or otherwise commercially viable and competitive. New products may
      not satisfy price or other performance objectives when introduced in the
      marketplace. Any of these events would adversely affect our realization of
      royalties from such new products. 

We
      have not paid dividends on our common stock.  

We
      have
      not paid cash dividends on our common stock since 1981, and, our Board of
      Directors currently does not have plans to declare or pay cash dividends in
      the
      future. However, the decision to pay dividends is solely at the discretion
      of
      our Board of Directors based upon factors that they deem relevant, and may
      change at any time. 

As
      a
      publicly held company, we have significantly higher administrative
      costs.  

The
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by
      the
      SEC and new listing requirements subsequently adopted by the American Stock
      Exchange in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have required changes
      in
      corporate governance practices, internal control policies and audit committee
      practices of public companies. These new rules, regulations, and requirements
      have increased our legal, audit, financial, compliance and administrative costs,
      and have made certain other activities more time consuming and costly. The
      additional costs are expected to continue. In addition, these new rules and
      regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for 

Page
          15 

Table
          of Contents   

us
      to
      obtain directors and officers liability insurance in the future, and could
      make
      it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members for our Board
      of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. 

ITEM
              1B.     
             
                  UNRESOLVED
                STAFF COMMENTS   

Not
      applicable. 

ITEM
              2.     
             
                  PROPERTIES   

Our
      executive office is approximately 11,000 square feet of leased space in an
      office building in Fairfield, Connecticut, to which we moved on August 24,
      2006.
      Under the terms of a seven-year lease signed April 28, 2006, and as subsequently
      amended, the commencement date (the date at which we are responsible for paying
      rent) of the lease was September 1, 2006, and the lease expires September 1,
      2013. We have an option to terminate the lease after five years upon making
      a
      small payment, and we have an option to renew the lease for an additional five
      years on similar terms and conditions. The lease also provides for an average
      (over the life of the lease) annual base rent of approximately $267,000, after
      incentives, but exclusive of taxes, climate control, power and maintenance.
      The
      lease for our prior executive office expires December 31, 2006, but we are
      not
      responsible for rent payments after September 1, 2006, due to an incentive
      reached with our new landlord and a change in the prior lease whereby we were
      released from a portion of the lease in exchange for vacating the space prior
      to
      September 1, 2006. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current
      and near-term operations. 

ITEM
              3.     
             
                  LEGAL
                PROCEEDINGS   

Fujitsu  

In
      December 2000, (coincident with filing a complaint with the United States
      International Trade Commission ( ITC ) that was withdrawn in 2001) the
      University of Illinois and CTT filed a complaint against Fujitsu Limited,
      Fujitsu General Limited, Fujitsu General America, Fujitsu Microelectronics,
      Inc.
      and Fujitsu Hitachi Plasma Display Ltd. (Fujitsu et al., collectively,
 Fujitsu ) in the United States District Court for the Central District of
      Illinois, seeking damages for past infringements and an injunction against
      future sales of plasma display panels alleged to infringe two U.S. patents
      held
      by our Client, the University of Illinois. The two patents cover energy recovery
      technology for flat plasma display panels. In May 2002, the Central District
      Court of Illinois granted Fujitsu s motion to transfer this case to the Northern
      District of California. 

In
      September 2001, Fujitsu filed counterclaims against us and the University of
      Illinois in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware (which
      subsequently were dismissed and reinstituted in the Northern District of
      California). The counterclaims alleged, among other things, that we had
      misappropriated confidential information and trade secrets supplied by Fujitsu,
      and committed unfair competition in litigating the ITC action. 

Effective
      July 23, 2002, the University of Illinois agreed to take the lead in this
      litigation and assume the cost of new lead counsel. Before this agreement,
      we
      bore the entire cost of lead counsel in this litigation. In late 2002, we were
      dismissed as co-plaintiff from this litigation, but we retained our economic
      interest in any potential favorable outcome. 

On
      July
      1, 2004, the court granted summary judgment in favor of Fujitsu. The University
      of Illinois appealed the decision. On September 20, 2004, the judge entered
      a
      stipulated order staying certain issues, including the counterclaims, pending
      resolution of the University s appeal. 

Page
          16 

Table
          of Contents   

On
      May 1,
      2006, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the  CAFC ) heard the
      University of Illinois  appeal of the summary judgment. On June 15, 2006, the
      CAFC ruled in favor of Fujitsu, effectively ending the case. The only claims
      in
      this matter still outstanding are Fujitsu s counterclaims against the University
      of Illinois and CTT. Fujitsu is proceeding with their counterclaims, in which
      they are claiming at least $5 million in damages plus punitive damages, costs
      and interest. We cannot determine the timing or what, if any, the amount that
      our liability may be if the counterclaims are successful, or the amount of
      defense costs we might incur. 

Carolina
      Liquid Chemistries Corporation, et al.  

On
      August
      29, 2005, we filed a complaint against Carolina Liquid Chemistries Corporation
      ( Carolina Liquid ) in the United States District Court for the District of
      Colorado, alleging patent infringement of our patent covering homocysteine
      assays, and seeking monetary damages, punitive damages, attorneys  fees, court
      costs and other remuneration at the option of the court. Carolina Liquid was
      served on September 1, 2005. Subsequently, we amended our complaint to add
      as
      defendants Catch, Inc. ( Catch ) and the Diazyme Laboratories Division of
      General Atomics ( Diazyme ).   On
      September 6, 2006, Diazyme filed for declaratory judgment in the Southern
      District of California for a change in venue and a declaration of
      non-infringement and invalidity.   On
      September 12, 2006, the District Court in Colorado ruled that both Catch and
      Diazyme be added as defendants to the Carolina Liquid case. Further action
      in
      this case is pending. 

Palatin
      Technologies, Inc.  

On
      September 14, 2005, we filed a complaint in the Superior Court, Judicial
      District of Fairfield at Bridgeport, Connecticut, against Palatin, in which
      we
      allege breach of contract by Palatin of a mediated settlement agreement we
      signed with Palatin on June 17, 2005 (the  Mediated Settlement ), relating to a
      license between Palatin and us   for
      Palatin s exclusive use of our Technology in developing their experimental
      therapeutic treatment for male and female sexual dysfunction   (the
       License ). In our complaint we are seeking monetary damages, interest,
      attorneys  fees, court costs, punitive damages, and other remuneration at the
      option of the court. On November 22, 2005, Palatin filed a motion for summary
      judgment seeking a dismissal of our complaint and monetary damages, including
      reimbursement of their legal fees, as sanctions against us for filing the
      original complaint (this motion was denied on July 12, 2006). On February 3,
      2006, we filed a motion to enlarge the scope of our original complaint, alleging
      fraudulent behavior by Palatin in their actions in negotiating the Mediated
      Settlement, as we believe that Palatin was aware that they were unable to issue
      fully unrestricted shares of their common stock at the time that they agreed
      to
      do so as part of the Mediated Settlement, but agreed to do so
      anyway. 

Pursuant
      to the terms of the License, we are entitled to receive 20% of any sublicense
      fee that Palatin receives. On August 13, 2004, Palatin announced that they
      had
      granted a co-exclusive license to King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( King ), included
      in a Collaborative Development and Marketing Agreement between Palatin and
      King.
      On August 18, 2004, Palatin announced that they had received an initial $20
      million from King, but did not submit any funds to us, which caused us to notify
      Palatin that they were in breach, and later demand arbitration for the breach.
      We agreed first to try to mediate the dispute with Palatin, and o  n
      June
      17, 2005, we signed the Mediated Settlement agreement with Palatin.   Pursuant
      to the   Mediated
      Settlement  ,
      Palatin
      made a cash payment to us of $1,700,000, and further agreed to issue to us
      promptly 170,000 shares of Palatin unrestricted common stock. The settlement
      we
      received was for both us and our Clients. 

On
      July
      5, 2005, Palatin issued restricted shares to us that were not registered for
      resale, which was not in accordance with the   Mediated
      Settlement  ,
      as we
      were   restricted
      from selling, transferring or otherwise disposing of the shares.   Since
      Palatin failed to issue us unrestricted shares and honor the   Mediated
      Settlement  ,
      we
      filed the complaint against them seeking, at a minimum, unrestricted shares
      and
      reimbursement of costs that we incurred as a result of Palatin s breach of the
      settlement. On October 13, 2005, Palatin filed a registration statement
      (prospectus) with the SEC to register the restricted shares for sale, and we
      later determined that we could trade the shares even though the legend on the
      share certificate is still 

Page
          17 

Table
          of Contents   

in
      place.
      We continued to pursue the complaint filed against Palatin to recover our costs
      and preserve our rights under the License. 

We
      believe that the Mediated Settlement referred only to the disposition of the
      specific $20 million sublicensing fee received by Palatin from King, and did
      not
      pertain to any future milestone payments, or to any other future payments to
      be
      made by King to Palatin under their agreement. Palatin has made statements
      in
      their public filings that the June 17, 2005 Mediated Settlement released them
      from any other obligations to us relating to any other future payments received
      from King. In addition, Palatin has made other public filings in which they
      stated that they did not believe that any license from us was needed to
      commercialize their sexual dysfunction therapeutic product. We disagree with
      these and any other similar such statements. Palatin also has received
      additional amounts from King since their receipt of the initial $20 million
      payment; however, they have refused to acknowledge that they owe us any
      additional amounts pursuant to the License. Thus, as a result of Palatin s
      additional alleged breaches of the license and tortious acts, on June 6, 2006,
      we demanded arbitration, as required by the License, to settle the new issues.
      On July 20, 2006, we filed our claims with the American Arbitration
      Association. 

Further
      action in both the court case and the arbitration is pending. 

Employment
      Matters  

Employment
      matters - former President and Chief Executive Officer  

On
      August
      10, 2005, we received notice that John B. Nano, our former President and CEO
      from June 2002 to June 2005, had commenced suit in the Superior Court in the
      Judicial District of Stamford, Connecticut seeking the pre-judgment remedy
      of
      attachment.   In
      his
      complaint, Mr. Nano sought to attach our bank accounts in the amount of $1.4
      million to preserve his ability to collect should he succeed on his claim that
      CTT allegedly had breached his employment contract because it denied him
      certain severance benefits when it terminated him on June 14, 2005.   Mr.
      Nano
      also claims, in the alternative, that CTT violated a draft but unexecuted and
      undelivered separation agreement and general release which it sought to
      negotiate with him at the time of his departure.   Mr.
      Nano
      claims in his complaint that CTT   withdrew
      the proposed draft agreement after he communicated his acceptance to the
      Chairman of CTT s Board of Directors. We have  
      opposed
      Mr. Nano s application for a prejudgment remedy; and, have denied and are
      vigorously defending the allegations in the complaint. Hearings on the motion
      were held in November 2005. Further action on this motion is
      pending. 

On
      September 14, 2005, we announced that we had received notice that Mr. Nano
      also
      had filed a complaint with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
      ( OSHA ), alleging a violation by CTT of   Section
      806 of the Corporate and Criminal Fraud Accountability Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C.
      1514A  
      (the
 Sarbanes-Oxley Act ) in connection with the termination of his employment. We
      believe that the complaint was totally without merit, and filed an answer to
      the
      OSHA inquiry on October 3, 2005. On March 2, 2006, Mr. Nano notified OSHA that
      he was withdrawing his complaint, and reserved his right to file the action
      in
      U.S. District Court. 

On
      December 7, 2005, we filed a complaint against Mr. Nano in the Superior Court
      in
      the Judicial District of Stamford, Connecticut, for monetary and punitive
      damages, alleging breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, statutory theft
      of confidential information, and other claims, including a request for an
      injunction preventing Mr. Nano from competing with CTT with products and
      business contacts originally coming to Mr. Nano s attention through his
      employment at CTT. Further action on this matter is pending. 

On
      May
      26, 2006, Mr. Nano filed a complaint in the United States District Court of
      Connecticut, alleging that CTT violated   Section
      806 of the   Sarbanes-Oxley
      Act in connection with the termination of his employment. In his complaint,
      Mr.
      Nano seeks monetary damages, punitive damages, attorneys  fees, 

Page
          18 

Table
          of Contents   

and
      costs
      and other remuneration at the option of the court. We believe that the complaint
      is totally without merit, and intend to defend it vigorously. 

Legal
      fees incurred relating to these matters totaled $371,368 in 2006. We cannot
      predict the ultimate resolution of these matters, or the total amount of legal
      fees or other expenses that we will incur going forward relating to these
      matters. 

Employment
      matters - other former employees  

On
      February 2, 2005, OSHA issued a finding that there was probable cause to believe
      that CTT had violated Section 806 of the Sarbanes-  Oxley
      Act  
      by
      terminating Wil Jacques and Scott Bechtel in June 2003. Based on the finding,
      OSHA ordered that the complainants be reinstated and that CTT pay damages
      totaling approximately $827,000. Jacques and Bechtel contended that they were
      improperly terminated for raising concerns about financial reporting. We
      contended that Jacques and Bechtel did not raise protected concerns and were
      terminated for lawful, non-discriminatory reasons, that OSHA failed to fairly
      investigate and consider all relevant facts, that the conclusions drawn by
      OSHA
      were legally erroneous, and that we were not liable to the complainants for
      any amount. 

The
      OSHA
      finding did not constitute a final agency order. In accordance with law and
      regulation, in February 2005, we filed timely objections and requested a
   de
      novo   
      hearing
      before an Administrative Law Judge ( ALJ ) of the U.S. Department of Labor
      ( DOL ). The hearing was held in May 2005. On May 18, 2005, CTT and plaintiff
      Jacques entered into a memorandum of understanding, which later was approved
      by
      the ALJ, whereby all claims against CTT by Jacques were resolved. Pursuant
      to
      the settlement with Jacques, CTT paid plaintiff Jacques a lump sum payment
      and
      reimbursement for certain reasonable legal fees, and agreed to pay him certain
      minimum consulting fees in 2006 and 2007. The lump sum payment and legal fee
      reimbursement were recorded in 2005. The consulting fees are not significant,
      and are recorded as they are paid. 

On
      October 6, 2005, the ALJ s findings were issued, in which all of the claims of
      Mr. Bechtel were dismissed, and further, that the issue of damages was not
      relevant since the plaintiff failed to carry his burden of proof. The plaintiff
      filed an appeal with the DOL on October 19, 2005. The motion for appeal was
      granted, and it is still outstanding. In addition, Mr. Bechtel filed a separate
      complaint with OSHA alleging that CTT violated   Section
        806
      of
      the   Sarbanes-Oxley
      Act in connection with his reinstatement. We filed a response and a request
      for
      dismissal of this complaint on November 16, 2005. On November 23, 2005, this
      complaint was dismissed by OSHA. We cannot predict the total amount of legal
      fees or other expenses that we will incur going forward relating to this matter.
      Legal fees incurred since the inception of this matter through July 31, 2006,
      were $893,743, including $111,817 incurred in 2006. After the ALJ s findings
      were issued, Mr. Bechtel left CTT on his own initiative. 

Separate
      from the hearing before the ALJ, Mr. Bechtel sought to have the reinstatement
      order upheld by the United States District Court, District of Connecticut (the
       District Court ). The reinstatement order would have required reinstatement as
      of February 8, 2005. CTT opposed Mr. Bechtel s request. On May 13, 2005, the
      District Court granted Bechtel and the DOL a preliminary injunction requiring
      us
      to comply with the DOL reinstatement order and directed CTT to reinstate Mr.
      Bechtel. On May 16, 2005, CTT filed for a reconsideration and/or modification
      of
      the May 13, 2005 order. On May 23, 2005, the District Court granted CTT s motion
      for reconsideration, but did not change the ruling requiring reinstatement.
      The
      DOL joined with Mr. Bechtel and requested a show cause hearing before the
      District Court as to why CTT should not be held in contempt of court for not
      complying immediately with the reinstatement order. On July 27, 2005, a show
      cause hearing was held at the District Court. CTT then reinstated plaintiff
      Bechtel effective back to February 8, 2005, and promptly appealed the District
      Court s earlier ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit, sitting
      in New York. On May 1, 2006, the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in favor
      of
      CTT, finding that the District Court lacked the ability to enforce the
      reinstatement, and eliminating the possibility of contempt charges being levied
      against CTT. Since we had previously reinstated Mr. Bechtel, and he had left
      CTT
      of his 

Page
          19 

Table
          of Contents   

own
      volition after the ruling by the ALJ in the underlying case, the 2nd Circuit
      ruling had no financial impact on us. This ruling was not appealed and it became
      final. 

Securities
      and Exchange Commission  

On
      August
      11, 2004, the   SEC  
      filed a
      civil suit in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut,
      naming Competitive Technologies, Inc., our former President and CEO in 2001,
      and
      six individual brokers, alleging that from at least July 1998 to June 2001,
      the
      defendants were involved in a scheme to manipulate the price of our stock.
      The
      case relates to our 1998 stock repurchase program under which we repurchased
      shares of our common stock from time to time during the period from October
      28,
      1998 to March 22, 2001. CTT was named as a defendant in the suit due to the
      alleged conduct of our former CEO, whose conduct in connection with the stock
      repurchase program was imputed to CTT as a matter of law. Relating to CTT,
      the
      SEC seeks a permanent injunction prohibiting us from further violations of
      the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and a civil penalty pursuant to Section
      21(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (this section provides for
      maximum penalties of $550,000 for a corporate entity and $110,000 per
      individual). On September 24, 2004, we responded to this civil suit, and filed
      a
      motion to dismiss the suit. On October 15, 2004, the SEC filed a motion opposing
      our motion to dismiss the suit. On July 21, 2005, our motion to dismiss the
      suit
      was denied. On April 10, 2006, we filed a separate motion for summary judgment
      to dismiss the case, and on June 15, 2006, the SEC filed a motion opposing
      our
      motion for summary judgment. Further action in this case is pending. If our
      motion for summary judgment is not successful, we expect that the case will
      go
      to trial sometime in 2007. 

Laboratory
      Corporation of America Holdings d/b/a LabCorp  

On
      June
      22, 2006, the U.S. Supreme Court (the  Supreme Court ) ruled that the writ of
      certiorari previously granted to Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings
      d/b/a LabCorp ( LabCorp ), had been improvidently granted, thus dismissing the
      writ and ending LabCorp s appeal of this homocysteine assay infringement case
      originally filed on May 4, 1999 (described below)   in
      the
      United States District Court for the District of Colorado  .
      (A writ
      of certiorari is a petition requesting the Court to hear an appeal.) On
      September 21, 2006, the district court ruled on the remaining outstanding
      motions and claims related to this case, and as result of the ruling, the case
      effectively ended with no further awards granted. 

The
      original case was filed against LabCorp in 1999 by   Metabolite
      Laboratories, Inc. ( MLI ) and us (collectively, the  Plaintiffs )   alleging,
      in part, breach of contract and patent infringement, and that LabCorp owed
      the
      Plaintiffs royalties for homocysteine assays performed beginning in the summer
      of 1998 using methods falling within the claims of a patent we own. (We licensed
      the patent on a non-exclusive basis to MLI and MLI sublicensed it to LabCorp.)
      In November 2001 a jury confirmed the validity of our patent rights, found
      that
      LabCorp had willfully infringed our patent and breached their sublicense
      contract, and awarded damages to the Plaintiffs. In an amended judgment issued
      in November 2002, the court awarded CTT approximately $1,019,000 in damages,
      $1,019,000 in enhanced (punitive) damages, $560,000 in attorneys  fees, and
      $132,000 in prejudgment interest, and had issued a permanent injunction barring
      LabCorp from performing future homocysteine assays. The injunction against
      performing tests was stayed by the court pursuant to a stipulated court order
      that expired in April 2005 (pursuant to the stipulated order LabCorp was allowed
      to perform assays in exchange for paying a royalty). LabCorp appealed the
      judgment, and o  n
      August
      5, 2004, the CAFC denied LabCorp s appeal for a rehearing or a rehearing en banc
      (rehearing by the full CAFC). As a result of this decision, on August 16, 2004,
      the Plaintiffs received approximately $6.7 million, our share of which was
      $921,000, and we recorded $815,000 in royalty legal awards and $105,000 in
      interest income during 2005. The payment did not include attorneys  fees or
      court costs previously awarded to the Plaintiffs that were under appeal with
      the
      court. On January 24, 2005, the CAFC issued a summary dismissal of LabCorp s
      appeal of the court s award of attorneys  fees and court costs from the original
      case. Subsequently, we received payment from LabCorp for the attorneys  fees and
      court costs. Our share of the payment was $231,000, and we recorded $221,000
      in
      royalty legal awards and $10,000 in interest income, also in 2005. After this
      decision, on November 3, 2004, LabCorp had appealed the case to the Supreme
      Court. 

Page
          20 

Table
          of Contents   

We
      did
      not receive any awards from this case in 2006. As a result of this decision,
      the
      validity of our homocysteine patent was upheld. 

Other  

On
      May
      17, 2006, we filed a complaint against Dr. Arnold H. Pross in the New York
      Supreme Court in Nassau County, alleging the posting of defamatory statements
      against our current President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as CTT,
      on
      public message boards. On July 20, 2006, Dr. Pross filed a motion to dismiss
      our
      complaint based upon a lack of personal jurisdiction. On October 13, 2006,
      we
      filed a motion opposing Dr. Pross  motion. Further action in this case is
      pending the resolution of the outstanding motions. 

Summary  

We
      are
      unable to estimate the legal expenses or the losses we may incur, if any, or
      the
      possible damages we may recover in these suits, if any, and we have not recorded
      any potential judgment losses or proceeds in our financial statements to date.
      We record expenses in connection with these suits as they are
      incurred. 

We
      believe that we carry adequate liability insurance, directors and officers
      insurance, casualty insurance (for owned or leased tangible assets), and other
      insurance as needed to cover us against potential and actual claims and lawsuits
      that occur in the ordinary course of our business. However, an unfavorable
      resolution of any or all matters, and/or our incurrence of significant legal
      fees and other costs to defend or prosecute any of these actions and proceedings
      may, depending on the amount and timing, have a material adverse effect on
      our
      consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in a
      particular period. 

ITEM
              4.     
             
                  SUBMISSION
                OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
                HOLDERS   

No
      matters were submitted to a vote of security holders in the fourth quarter
      of
      fiscal 2006. 

ITEM
              4A.     
             
                  EXECUTIVE
                OFFICERS OF THE
                REGISTRANT   

The
      names
      of our executive officers, their ages and background information are as
      follows: 

Dr.
      Donald J. Freed, 64,   
      has
      served as our   President
      and Chief Executive Officer since June 2005. Dr. Freed was our   Executive
      Vice President and Chief Technology Officer from January 1, 2004 to June 2005.
      From April 2003 to December 2003, he was engaged as a consultant to us. From
      November 1998 through March 2003, he served as Vice President, Business
      Development, and prior thereto, as Vice President of Marketing of Nanophase
      Technologies Corporation, a publicly held nanomaterials company. 

Michael
      E. Kiley, 49,   
      has
      served as our Chief Operating Officer since July 2006. From August 2005 to
      July
      2006, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, and from
      March 2004 to August 2005, he was Vice President, Digital Business Development.
      From November 2002 to March 2004, he was employed as a business development
      consultant to CTT. From December 2000 to November 2002, he was Program Manager
      of Navy Cost Reduction Technology for Pennsylvania State University s Applied
      Research Laboratory. 

Page
          21 

Table
          of Contents   

Michael
      D. Davidson, 47,   
      has
      served as our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2004. In
      July
      2006 he became Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From 1998
      through 2004, he was with First Aviation Services Inc., (a provider of parts
      and
      services to the aerospace industry) in various capacities, including financial
      consultant, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary,
      and
      as its Controller. 

PART
      II   

ITEM
                5.    

MARKET
                FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
                PURCHASES OF EQUITY
                SECURITIES   

(a)      Market
      information.    Our
      common stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol
      CTT. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low sales prices
      of
      our common stock as reported by the American Stock Exchange for the periods
      indicated. 

(b)      Holders.   
      At
      October 16, 2006, there were approximately 554 holders of record of our common
      stock. 

(c)      Dividends.   
      No cash
      dividends were declared on our common stock during the last two fiscal
      years. 

(d)      Sales
      and issuances of unregistered securities.   
      During
      the year ended July 31, 2006, we sold and issued a total of 595,092 shares
      of
      common stock pursuant to a $5 million equity financing arrangement, receiving
      a
      total of $2,282,459 in cash. The equity financing arrangement was completed
      and
      terminated in the fourth quarter of 2006 (see    Item
      7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations   ).
        All
      of
      the securities issued were issued without registration in reliance upon an
      exemption under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act because we made the offers
      and sales in private placements, but were registered under the Securities Act
      for resale by the purchaser. 

Page
          22 

Table
          of Contents   

COMPETITIVE
      TECHNOLOGIES, INC.  

(1)  
             
                This
                summary should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial
                Statements and Notes thereto. All amounts in these notes are
                approximate. 

(4) 

No
                cash dividends were declared or paid in any year
                presented. 

Page
          23 

Table
          of Contents   

ITEM
                7.    

MANAGEMENT S
                DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
                OPERATIONS   

Forward-Looking
      Statements  

Statements
      about our future expectations, including development plans, and all other
      statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than historical facts,
      are
 forward-looking statements  within the meaning of applicable Federal Securities
      Laws, and are not guarantees of future performance. When and if used in this
      Form 10-K, the words  may,   will,   should,   anticipate,   believe,   intend, 
 plan,   expect,   estimate,   approximate,  and similar expressions, as they
      relate to us or our business or management, are intended to identify such
      forward-looking statements. These statements involve risks and uncertainties
      related to our ability to obtain rights to market technologies, market
      acceptance of and competition for our licensed technologies,   growth
      strategies and strategic plans, operating performance and financing of our
      operations, industry trends,   and
      other
      risks and uncertainties inherent in our business, including those set forth
      under the caption  Risk Factors  in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
      for the year ended July 31, 2006, and other factors that may be described in
      our
      other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and are subject
      to
      change at any time. Our actual results could differ materially from these
      forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any
      forward-looking statement. 

O    verview  

We
      are a
      full service technology transfer and licensing provider. We provide technology
      transfer, selling and licensing services focused on the technology needs of
      our
      customers, matching those requirements with commercially viable technology
      solutions, bridging the gap between market demand and raw innovation. We develop
      relationships with universities, companies, inventors and patent or intellectual
      property holders to obtain the rights or a license to their intellectual
      property rights, principally patents and inventions (collectively, the
 Technology ), and they become our  Clients,  for whom we find markets to sell
      or further develop their Technology. We also develop relationships with those
      who have a need or use for Technologies, and they become our customers, usually
      through a license or sublicense. We identify and commercialize innovative
      Technologies in life and physical sciences, electronics, and nanotechnologies
      developed by universities, companies and inventors. Our goal is to maximize
      the
      value of intellectual assets for the benefit of our Clients, customers and
      shareholders. 

We
      earn
      revenues primarily from licensing our Clients  and our own Technologies to our
      customers (licensees). Our customers pay us royalties based on their usage
      of
      the Technology, and we share the fees with our Clients. In the normal course
      of
      our business, patents expire and revenues generated one year may not recur
      in
      the following year. As explained below, in 2006 we had a concentration of
      revenues derived from four Technologies. 

Because
      we have rounded all amounts in this Item 7 to the nearest thousand dollars,
      certain amounts may not total precisely. In addition, all periods discussed
      in
      this Item 7 relate to our fiscal year ending July 31 (first, second, third
      and
      fourth quarters ending October 31, January 31, April 30 and July 31,
      respectively). 

The
      following discussion and analysis provides information that we believe is
      relevant to an assessment and understanding of our financial condition and
      results of operations. This discussion and analysis should be read in
      conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes
      thereto. 

Page
          24 

Table
          of Contents   

Results
      of Operations - 2006 vs. 2005  

Summary
      of Results  

We
      incurred a net loss for 2006 of $2,377,000, or $0.31 per share, compared to
      net
      income for 2005 of $5,702,000, or $0.78 per diluted share, a decrease of
      $8,079,000, or $1.09 per diluted share. The reasons for the decrease in net
      income are explained in detail below. In summary, the recurring revenue stream
      we have currently is insufficient for us to be profitable with our present
      cost
      structure. In our three-year strategic plan, we have addressed the issue of
      recurring revenues, and have plans in place to increase revenues sufficiently
      for us to be profitable on a long-term basis. 

Revenues  

Total
      revenues for 2006 were $5,188,000, compared to $14,174,000 for 2005, a decrease
      of $8,986,000, or 63%. In 2005, we received revenues from large, upfront license
      fees received related to our homocysteine Technology, the magnitude of which
      was
      unusually high and did not recur in 2006, and infrequently occurring revenues,
      including legal awards and dividends. 

Retained
      royalties   
      for 2006
      were $4,547,000, which was $7,091,000, or 61% lower than the $11,638,000
      reported in 2005. The following table compares revenues from Technologies with
      retained royalties greater than or equal to $150,000 in 2006 or
      2005. 

Approximately
      88% of our retained royalties for 2006 were from four Technologies: 70% from
      homocysteine assays, 11% from Ethyol, 4% from gallium arsenide patents, and
      3%
      from plasma display. We are seeking to expand our portfolio of revenue producing
      Technologies to mitigate this concentration of revenues, to replace revenues
      from expiring licenses and to provide future revenues. 

During
      2006 and 2005, we received $386,000 and $6,181,000, respectively, of upfront
      fees from new homocysteine licenses granted in the year. While the receipt
      of
      upfront licensee fees is common, the magnitude of such fees will fluctuate,
      sometimes significantly from period to period. Without upfront license fees,
      revenues from this Technology were $2,810,000, and $2,751,000, for 2006 and
      2005, respectively, or a slight increase from 2005. The increase was due to
      a
      combination of new licenses granted in 2006 and the inclusion in 2006 of a
      full
      year of revenues from several licenses granted during the prior year, partially
      offset by a decrease in 2006 in tests performed by one of our larger licensees.
      Our U.S. patent that covers this homocysteine assay, the validity of which
      has
      been confirmed by a court decision, expires in July 2007. 

Royalties
      from Ethyol  sales are limited to a maximum of $500,000 per calendar year, and
      we have received this amount every calendar year since 2002. Differences from
      year-to-year are due to timing of receipts. We have no reason to believe that
      royalties from this Technology will not reach the maximum per year for the
      next
      several years. 

Page
          25 

Table
          of Contents   

U.S.
      patents for gallium arsenide were issued from March 1983 to May 1989. This
      Technology was licensed to several foreign and one U.S. licensee. Patents
      expired starting in May 2001 and will continue to expire through September
      2006.
      After September 2006, we do not expect significant future revenues for this
      Technology. The decrease in gallium arsenide revenues in 2006 was due to the
      receipt in 2005 of a one-time settlement of back royalties from one customer
      as
      a result of a royalty audit and subsequent litigation relating to an expired
      license. Our share of the settlement was $607,000, net of fees paid to a royalty
      auditing firm. Approximately $607,000 and $87,000, respectively, of retained
      royalties in 2005 and 2004 were from the U.S. licensee s sales of licensed
      product; the remaining $184,000, $253,000 and $247,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively, were from several foreign licenses. 

The
      decrease in revenues in 2006 compared to 2005 related to our sexual dysfunction
      Technology was due to a settlement received from Palatin Technologies, Inc.
      ( Palatin ) on June 17, 2005, related to a fee received by Palatin in August
      2004.   The
      settlement was the result of a mediation of a prior dispute whereby we had
      demanded arbitration, which is the sole method of dispute resolution pursuant
      to
      the license between us and Palatin, due to our belief that Palatin was in
      material breach of the license for not paying us a percentage of the subcontract
      fee they received, as provided for in the license. Pursuant to the settlement,
      Palatin made a cash payment to us, our share of which was $680,000, and further
      agreed to issue to us promptly 170,000 shares of its unrestricted common stock,
      bringing the total recorded in 2005 for the settlement to $783,000. For further
      information, see    Item
      3. Legal Proceedings.  

Royalty
      legal awards   
      of
      $1,037,000 in 2005 were from two awards we received related to litigation
      against   Laboratory
      Corporation of America Holdings d/b/a LabCorp ( LabCorp )  ,
      including $816,000 from the original November 2002 decision in this homocysteine
      patent infringement case, that LabCorp had appealed unsuccessfully, and $221,000
      for attorneys  fees and court costs also awarded to us in the original case.
      There were no legal awards in 2006. We currently are pursuing infringement
      cases
      against three other defendants.   For
      a
      further description of the LabCorp case other infringement cases,   see
         Item
      3. Legal Proceedings   . 

Dividends
      received   
      of
      $930,000 for 2005 were from our receipt of three separate dividends from
      Melanotan Corporation, in which we own approximately 20.9% of the common stock.
      These dividends are described in detail in the    Results
      of Operations - 2005 vs. 2004   .
        No
      dividends were received in 2006. 

Investment
      income   
      for 2006
      was $592,000, compared to $433,000 in 2005. Included in 2005 was $115,000 of
      interest from the LabCorp awards, and $52,000 of interest earned on an
      outstanding note receivable that was fully repaid in 2005. Without these items,
      investment income for 2006 increased $326,000, or 123%, compared to 2005. The
      increase is due to a combination of significantly higher rates of return earned
      on invested cash and higher average monthly cash balances in the current year
      compared to the prior year. 

Page
          26 

Table
          of Contents   

Expenses  

Personnel
      and other direct expenses relating to revenues   
      decreased a net $787,000 in 2006, compared to 2005, due to a combination of
      several factors. Personnel expenses decreased a net $592,000 in 2006, compared
      to the prior year. This was due to a $1,095,000 decrease in commission and
      bonus
      expense, as a result of the decrease in our financial results, partially offset
      by an increase aggregating to $344,000 in other personnel costs for recruiting
      expenses incurred to add business development and business development support
      employees, and for severance costs, and a net $167,000 increase for noncash
      compensation charges related to stock options. We added the business development
      staff to increase our business development activities, which we believe will,
      in
      turn, result in more Technologies being added to our portfolio and ultimately
      more signed licenses generating future recurring revenues. The 2006 noncash
      stock option compensation expense of $265,000 was the result of our adoption
      of
      a new accounting pronouncement in 2006 that required us to recognize expense
      for
      stock options vesting during the year. This expense will continue in future
      years. Previously we did not have to recognize any expense except if a prior
      grant was modified. The noncash stock option compensation expense of $98,000
      recognized in 2005 was related to   modifications
      of stock options previously granted to a former employee  .
      Other
      direct expenses relating to revenues decreased $156,000, principally as a result
      of less costs incurred in 2006, compared to the prior year, for our review
      of
      the feasibility of certain Technologies. 

General
      and administrative expenses   
      decreased a net $255,000 in 2006, compared to 2005, due to a combination of
      several factors. Legal and other defense costs related to a whistleblower claim
      filed against us by a former employee decreased $670,000 from the prior year.
      The claim was dismissed, although the dismissal is being appealed. General
      corporate legal expense decreased $69,000 compared to the prior year due to
      less
      activity. Investor relations and marketing expenses decreased $109,000, due
      to
      better cost management. In addition, there was a $162,000 decrease in costs
      incurred in 2006 compared to the prior year to comply with the internal control
      documentation, testing and audit requirements of Section 404 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( SOX 404 ). 2005 was our first year under the SOX
      404 requirements, and costs were high as a result of initial implementation
      costs, including the creation of original documentation, management testing
      and
      external auditing of management s testing results. In the current year, we only
      had to update the documentation. In addition, as a result of new regulations
      issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), we were not required
      to have our independent auditors test our assertions about the effectiveness
      of
      our internal controls in 2006, which reduced our current year costs since we
      did
      not have to accrue external audit fees for this purpose. We still have
      compliance costs and such costs will be ongoing, since we have decided that
      we
      will maintain our internal control documentation and test our controls
      internally, even if not explicitly required by the SEC. In future years we
      believe that the SEC will again require our independent auditors to test
      management s assertions about the effectiveness of our internal controls. When
      this occurs our compliance costs will increase to reflect the additional costs
      of the audit. 

Partially
      offsetting these decreases, other legal expenses increased $371,000 in 2006,
      compared to 2005, related to our defense of two complaints filed against CTT
      by
      our former President and Chief 

Page
          27 

Table
          of Contents   

Executive
      Officer ("CEO"), and the complaint we filed against him seeking monetary and
      punitive damages for alleged breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty,
      statutory theft of confidential information, and other claims (see    Item
      3.  Legal Proceedings    ).
      Legal
      expenses also increased because in 2005 we recorded a $168,000 credit to expense
      for a reimbursement from our directors and officers liability insurance carrier
      for legal costs incurred and expensed in prior years related to an SEC
      investigation and subsequent civil suit. There was no such credit in 2006.
      Directors  fees and expenses increased an aggregate of $232,000, principally as
      a result of an increase in the coverage levels of our directors and officers
      liability insurance, and a net increase in noncash stock option compensation
      expense. In 2006, we recognized noncash expense for stock options granted to
      directors pursuant to the adoption of a new accounting pronouncement.
      Previously, we did not recognize expense related to stock options issued to
      directors, except that in 2005 we recognized expense relating to a modification
      of previously issued stock options. 

Patent
      enforcement expenses, net of reimbursements   ,
      increased a net $192,000 in 2006, compared to 2005, as we incurred substantial
      costs to defend our homocysteine patent from an appeal to the U.S. Supreme
      Court
      by LabCorp of an earlier decision in our favor (the appeal was unsuccessful).
      The level of patent enforcement expenses relates to our legal strategies and
      varies depending on the stage and activity, if any, relating to each litigation.
      In 2007, we expect to incur costs in this area related to our infringement
      case
      against Carolina Liquid, et al., though we cannot estimate the magnitude (see
         Item
      3.  Legal Proceedings    ). 

Provision
      for income taxes  

In
      current and prior years, we generated significant federal and state income
      and
      alternative minimum tax ( AMT ) losses, and these net operating losses ( NOLs )
      were carried forward for income tax purposes to be used against future taxable
      income. In 2005, we utilized a portion of our NOL carry-forwards against our
      regular federal and state taxable income, effectively eliminating our 2005
      regular income tax liabilities. However, in 2005 we expected to be subject
      to
      the AMT liability, where we are limited to using 90% of our NOL carry-forwards
      against taxable income. Our 2005 provision for income taxes of $10,400
      principally was for our estimated net AMT liability. In 2006, we incurred a
      loss
      but did not record a benefit since the benefit was fully reserved (see below).
      However, we did record a $12,000 benefit due to a change in estimate of the
      fiscal year 2005 federal AMT liability. In addition, we determined that we
      met
      certain conditions that made us eligible for a $35,000 refund of the AMT paid
      in
      2005 (which we received subsequent to 2006). As a result, in 2006 we recorded
      in
      total a benefit for income taxes of $47,000. We will be subject to the full
      AMT
      in future years. 

The
      NOLs
      are an asset to us if we can use them to offset or reduce future taxable income
      and therefore reduce the amount of both federal and state income taxes to be
      paid in future years.   Previously,
      since we were incurring losses and could not be sure that we would have future
      taxable income to be able to use the benefit of our NOLs, we recorded a
      valuation allowance against the asset, reducing its book value to zero. In
      2006,
      the benefit from our net loss was offset completely by a valuation allowance
      recorded against the asset. Thus, we did not show a benefit for income taxes,
      other than the benefit described above. We will reverse the valuation allowance
      if we have future taxable income.   We
      have
      substantial federal and state operating and capital loss carryforwards to use
      against future regular taxable income. In addition, we can use our NOLs to
      reduce our future AMT liability. However, a significant portion of the NOLs
      remaining at July 31, 2006, approximately $4,057,000, were derived from income
      tax deductions related to the exercise of stock options. The tax effect of
      these
      deductions will be credited against capital in excess of par value at the time
      they are utilized for book purposes, and not credited to income. Thus we will
      never receive a benefit for these NOLs in our statement of
      operations. 

Page
          28 

Table
          of Contents   

Results
      of Operations - 2005 vs. 2004  

Summary
      of Results  

Net
      income for 2005 was $5,702,000, or $0.78 per diluted share, compared to net
      income for 2004 of $2,955,000, or $0.46 per diluted share, an improvement of
      $2,747,000, or $0.32 per diluted share. The reasons for the increase in net
      income are explained below. 

Revenues  

Total
      revenues for 2005 were $14,174,000, compared to $8,022,000 for 2004, an increase
      of $6,152,000, or 77%. 

Retained
      royalties   
      for 2005
      were $11,638,000, which was $9,527,000, or 451% higher than the $2,111,000
      reported in 2004. The following table compares revenues from Technologies with
      retained royalties greater than or equal to $150,000 in 2005 or
      2004. 

As
      explained in detail below, included in the 2005 retained royalties were several
      non-refundable, non-creditable upfront license fees, a settlement of a back
      royalty audit, and a sublicense fee accrued related to sexual dysfunction.
      These
      revenues may not recur in subsequent years, or may recur in different
      magnitudes. In 2005 the total of such upfront license fees and the royalty
      audit
      aggregated to $7,587,000. Of this amount, approximately $6,181,000 was from
      homocysteine licenses. In 2004 there were no significant upfront license fees
      and no royalty audit settlements. Thus without these special revenues our
      retained royalties for 2005 would have been $4,051,000, and would have increased
      $1,940,000, or 92% over 2004. 

Approximately
      96% of our retained royalties for 2005 were from four Technologies: 77% from
      homocysteine assays, 4% from Ethyol, 8% from gallium arsenide patents, and
      7%
      from sexual dysfunction. We are seeking new Technologies to mitigate this
      concentration of revenues, to replace revenues from expiring licenses and to
      provide future revenues. 

The
      increase in revenues from the homocysteine assay (life sciences) was due
      principally to non-refundable, non-creditable, upfront license fees and
      recurring royalties earned on new licenses granted during the year, including
      licenses granted to Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ), Axis-Shield, Bayer
      Corporation ( Bayer ), Beckman Coulter, Dade Behring, Inc., Diagnostic Products
      Corporation, Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics (a Johnson   Johnson company), and
      the diagnostics division of F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd. (Roche).  
      These
      licenses, and other new licenses granted in 2005 relating to homocysteine
      testing, generally provide for a non-refundable, non-creditable (against future
      royalties) upfront license fee and a royalty to be paid to us based on a fixed
      fee per test. The amount of the fixed fee is determined based on estimated
      volume.  
      All of
      the upfront license fees received in 2005 were in cash, except for Bayer, which
      was paid one-half upon signing the license, with the other half due in October
      2005. 

Page
          29 

Table
          of Contents   

Pursuant
      to the license with Abbott, Abbott agreed to pay us a non-refundable,
      non-creditable upfront license fee, certain  Milestone Fees  (as defined in the
      license), and per test royalties on homocysteine assay sales made in the U.S.
      after January 1, 2006. In January 2005, upon receipt, we recorded $5,200,000
      in
      retained royalties, representing our share of the upfront license fee. The
      Milestone Fees, our share of which aggregates to $1,600,000, will be paid to
      us
      in two equal installments of $800,000 on January 31, 2006 and 2007, as long
      as
      our patent is valid and enforceable. We are accruing the present value of the
      aggregate of the Milestone Fees in retained royalties in calendar year 2005
      and,
      accordingly, we accrued $933,000 in retained royalties from inception of the
      license through July 31, 2005. No per test royalties are payable from Abbott
      in
      calendar year 2005. 

In
      general, in those cases where the homocysteine licensee makes or distributes
      test kits, the license granted in 2005 relieved the licensee s customers from
      their obligation to pay us royalties on tests performed using the licensee s
      homocysteine assay. The license also released the licensee s customers of any
      obligation to pay us royalties for homocysteine tests performed using the
      licensee s assays in the past, but did not entitle them to any refund of any
      royalties previously paid to us. With certain limited exceptions, the term
      of
      all of the homocysteine licenses granted is through July 2007, the expiration
      date of the patent. 

Our
      U.S.
      patent that covers this homocysteine assay, the validity of which has been
      confirmed by a court decision, expires in July 2007. Revenues, exclusive of
      upfront license fees, relating to the homocysteine assay continue to grow,
      and
      we believe that this trend will continue, but we cannot predict the magnitude
      of
      growth as we have no control over it, and we cannot predict if or when we will
      succeed in closing any additional license agreements and enforcing our patent
      rights. We believe that we currently have licenses with the most significant
      distributors and laboratories in the United States that sell and/or perform
      tests used to measure homocysteine levels. However, since we also believe that
      there still are others using and/or selling tests without a license, we continue
      to monitor the market to protect the patent rights of ourselves, our Clients,
      and our current license holders, and will take action, including litigation, if
      necessary, to enforce and protect our patent rights. 

We
      expect
      Ethyol (life sciences) and the Plasma Display (physical sciences) retained
      royalties to continue at the current level for several years. Ethyol is an
      agent
      that reduces certain side effects of chemotherapy, and is licensed by Southern
      Research Institute ( SRI ), exclusively to MedImmune, Inc. (formerly U.S.
      BioScience, Inc.). Pursuant to an agreement between CTT and SRI, SRI pays us
      up
      to a maximum of $500,000 per calendar year from Ethyol license income it
      receives. Since calendar 2002 we have received the maximum revenue each year.
      This patent expires in December 2010. 

Inventions
      using gallium arsenide (electronics) to improve semiconductor operating
      characteristics were developed at the University of Illinois. U.S. patents
      were
      issued from March 1983 to May 1989. Patents expired starting in May 2001 and
      will continue to expire through September 2006. After September 2006, we will
      not receive any future royalties for this Technology. We have licensed this
      Technology to Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, NEC Corporation, Semiconductor
      Company, Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd., SDL, Inc., Hitachi Ltd.,
      Tottori Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., Toshiba Corporation, and one U.S. licensee
      (some licenses have since expired). The increase in gallium arsenide revenues
      resulted from a one-time settlement of back royalties from one customer as
      a
      result of a royalty audit and subsequent litigation relating to an expired
      license. Our share of the settlement was $607,000, net of fees paid to a royalty
      auditing firm. Without this settlement, royalties would have decreased due
      to
      licenses that expired in the prior year. Approximately $607,000, $87,000, and
      $156,000, respectively, of retained royalties in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003,
      were from the U.S. licensee s sales of licensed product; the remaining $253,000,
      $247,000 and $352,000, respectively, were from several foreign
      licenses. 

The
      increase in revenues related to our sexual dysfunction Technology was due to
      our
      settlement with Palatin on June 17, 2005, related to a subcontract fee received
      by Palatin in August 2004.   The
      settlement was the result of a mediation of a prior dispute whereby we had
      demanded arbitration, as provided for in the license between us and Palatin,
      due
      to our belief that Palatin was in material breach of the license. Pursuant
      to
      the settlement, Palatin made a cash payment to us, our share of 

Page
          30 

Table
          of Contents   

which
      was
      $680,000, and further agreed to issue to us promptly 170,000 shares of its
      unrestricted common stock. As we had not received the unrestricted common stock
      from Palatin, we accrued as income $103,000, representing our share of the
      estimated value of the stock, after considering the effect of the stock
      restriction, bringing the total recorded for the settlement to $783,000. Palatin
      tendered restricted shares to us that were not registered for resale. Since
      Palatin failed to issue us unrestricted shares, we filed a complaint against
      them as a result of their failure to honor all the terms of the June 17, 2005
      settlement. For further information, see    Item
      3. Legal Proceedings.  

The
      Palatin license is for Palatin s exclusive use of our Technology in developing
      their experimental therapeutic treatment for male and female sexual dysfunction.
      Pursuant to the terms of our license, we are entitled to receive 20% of any
      sublicense fee that Palatin receives. On August 13, 2004, Palatin announced
      that
      they had granted a co-exclusive license to King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( King ),
      included in a Collaborative Development and Marketing Agreement between Palatin
      and King. On August 18, 2004, Palatin announced that they had received an
      initial $20 million from King, but did not submit any funds to us, which caused
      us to notify Palatin that they were in breach, and later demand
      arbitration. 

The
      mediation settlement entered into by CTT and Palatin referred only to the
      disposition of this particular $20 million fee received by Palatin from King,
      and did not pertain to any future milestone payments, or to any other future
      payments to be made by King to Palatin that may be covered under the Palatin s
      license with us. Although Palatin has made statements in their public filings
      that this agreement released them from any other obligations to us relating
      to
      future payments received from King, we disagree with their statements, and
      reserve our rights under the original license granted to Palatin. 

Royalty
      legal awards   
      were
      $1,037,000 for 2005, and $4,339,000 for 2004, and comprised approximately 7%
      and
      54%, respectively, of our total revenues for 2005 and 2004. In 2005 we received
      two awards related to litigation with   Laboratory
      Corporation of America Holdings d/b/a LabCorp ( LabCorp )  ,
      including $816,000 released from the original November 2002 decision in this
      homocysteine patent infringement case that upheld the validity of our
      homocysteine patent, and that LabCorp had appealed unsuccessfully, and $221,000
      for attorneys  fees and court costs also awarded in the original case.
  For
      a
      further discussion of the original case and LabCorp s appeals,   see
         Item
      3. Legal Proceedings   .
      In
      2004, royalty legal awards were entirely from the finalization and receipt
      of
      our portion of the Materna  litigation award that had been ongoing for many
      years. 

Dividends
      received   
      of
      $930,000 for 2005 were from our receipt of three separate dividends from our
      investee, Melanotan Corporation ( MelanoTan ), in which we own approximately
      20.9% of the common stock. (There was no dividend income in 2004.)   We
      previously had purchased the shares of MelanoTan for a nominal amount, and,
      in a
      separate transaction, we licensed to MelanoTan certain rights relating to a
      sunless tanning technology that we own. The technology may lessen or prevent
      skin cancer caused by unprotected sun exposure.   MelanoTan
      sublicensed the rights to EpiTan Limited (Australia) ( EpiTan ), and also had
      received shares of EpiTan. (MelanoTan has no operations of its
      own). 

EpiTan
      essentially is a research and development company that is in the process of
      conducting safety and efficacy trials, and evaluating the Technology for future
      commercialization. It currently is planning Phase 3 trials in Australia
      (generally the last stage of testing required prior to approval to market)
      for
      the Technology (trials for use in the U.S. will begin after that). EpiTan common
      stock is traded on the Australian Stock Exchange (quoted in Australian dollars)
      under the symbol EPT. (In 2006, EpiTan changed its name to Clinuvel
      Pharmaceuticals Limited, and its stock symbol was changed to CUV.) 

In
      October 2004, MelanoTan paid its shareholders a dividend in the form of shares
      of EpiTan common stock. As a result, we received 1,252,346 shares of EpiTan
      common stock. As a condition to receiving the dividend, we agreed not to sell,
      transfer or otherwise dispose of the shares before October 21,
      2005. 

Page
          31 

Table
          of Contents   

We
      estimated the fair value of the EpiTan common stock using the closing price
      of
      the shares ($0.93 per share, Australian dollars) and the exchange rate for
      converting Australian dollars to U.S. dollars ($0.7289 Australian dollars to
      $1.00 U.S. dollar) on the date that MelanoTan s board of directors approved the
      dividend. We then discounted the value of the shares using a 20% discount factor
      to recognize the estimated impact of the sale restriction (EpiTan has minimal
      revenues and has incurred substantial current and accumulated net losses).
      We
      recorded the estimated value of the shares, $679,000, as dividend income and
      included the asset in equity securities available for sale. 

In
      May
      2005 MelanoTan paid a special cash dividend. Our share of the dividend was
      $104,000. In addition, in June 2005, MelanoTan paid another dividend in the
      form
      of EpiTan common stock. As a result, we received an additional 660,686 shares
      of
      EpiTan common stock and recorded additional dividend income of $147,000. As
      a
      condition to receiving this dividend, we again agreed not to sell, transfer
      or
      otherwise dispose of the shares before October 21, 2005. We valued the shares
      and dividend received in the same manner as the October 2004 dividend (except
      with a price per share of $0.36 Australian dollars, and exchange rate of $0.7701
      Australian dollars to $1.00 U.S. dollar). In total, we received and now directly
      own 1,913,032 shares of EpiTan common stock. Our ownership percentage of
      EpiTan s common stock is not significant. 

As
      a
      result of the dividends, MelanoTan does not own any more stock of Epitan. Its
      only asset is the license and sublicense to the Technology, and
      cash. 

Unrealized
      market price and foreign exchange gains and losses relating to the EpiTan shares
      have been included in other comprehensive loss in shareholders  interest. Other
      comprehensive loss for the year ended July 31, 2005, was $267,000, consisting
      of
      an unrealized loss on the market value of the shares of $387,000, partially
      offset by an unrealized foreign exchange gain on the value of the U.S. dollar
      compared to the Australian dollar of $120,000. Comprehensive income for the
      year
      ended July 31, 2005, was $5,434,000. 

Settlement
      with Unilens, net   
      for 2005
      was $32,000, compared to $1,203,000 in 2004, and related to our settlement
      with
      Unilens Corp. USA ( Unilens ) in October 2003. As a result of the 2004
      settlement, in 2005 we recorded only interest income related to the settlement
      during the first three quarters of the year. In the fourth quarter, as a result
      of Unilens accelerating their payments on the receivable and paying the balance
      in full faster than we estimated in 2004 when we recognized the receivable,
      we
      recorded an additional $32,000 of gain. At July 31, 2005, the receivable was
      paid in full. 

Interest
      income, net   
      for 2005
      was $433,000, compared to $369,000 in 2004. Included in 2005 was $115,000 of
      interest from the LabCorp awards, and $52,000 of interest earned on the Unilens
      receivable. The balance, $266,000, principally was interest earned from our
      invested cash and cash equivalents, which increased significantly over 2004.
      In
      2004, $355,000 of the $369,000 of interest was interest from the Materna award.
      The balance of $14,000 was earned from our invested cash and cash
      equivalents. 

Page
          32 

Table
          of Contents   

Expenses  

Personnel
      and other direct expenses relating to revenues    increased
      due to several factors. Personnel expenses for 2005 increased $1,880,000 from
      the prior year. This was due principally to bonus and commission accruals that
      increased $1,038,000 compared to 2004. Salaries, payroll taxes and employee
      benefits also increased approximately $945,000, due to an increase in the number
      of our employees, certain salary increases, and for a noncash charge of $98,000
      incurred as a result of modifying the terms of certain stock options previously
      granted to a former employee to extend the exercise terms of the options (there
      was no such expense in the prior year). In addition, other direct expenses
      increased $157,000, principally due to legal fees incurred in connection with
      the gallium arsenide back royalty litigation and settlement, a one-time charge
      for technical services to support licensing a Technology (which costs are
      partially recoverable from future licensing revenues, if any), legal and other
      costs related to litigating and licensing our homocysteine assay to others,
      and
      other costs to maintain certain technologies. Offsetting these increases,
      consultants fees and expenses decreased approximately $171,000 as some former
      consultants were hired as employees, severance costs decreased $113,000 as
      we
      paid severance to a former officer during 2004, and recruiting and relocation
      costs decreased $88,000. There were no severance, recruiting or relocation
      costs
      incurred in 2005. 

General
      and administrative expenses    increased
      due to several factors. We incurred approximately $782,000 in legal costs
      related to our defense of a preliminary finding against us by the Occupational
      Safety and Health Administration, and related court issues, and $70,000 in
      estimated legal costs related to a complaint filed against us by our former
      President and CEO. Both are described in more detail in    Item
      3. Legal Proceedings   .
      In 2005
      we also incurred approximately $228,000 of costs that we did not incur in the
      prior year to comply with the internal control documentation and testing
      requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This compliance
      cost will be ongoing. Other increases included $175,000 in expenses related
      to
      being a publicly traded company, including costs relating to our annual report,
      proxy, annual meeting, and costs relating to investor relations, and an increase
      of $112,000 in travel related both to investor relations and to review new
      business opportunities. Directors fees and expenses increased $169,000,
      principally due to a noncash charge of $73,000 incurred as a result of modifying
      the terms of certain stock options previously granted to a former director
      to
      extend the exercise term of the options (there was no such expense in the prior
      year), and $52,000 in increased fees and expenses as a result of more board
      meetings being held in 2005. Service fees and expenses increased $68,000 over
      2004 due to new business initiatives being explored. 

Partially
      offsetting the increases described above was a credit of $168,000 recorded
      in
      2005 for a reimbursement from our directors and officers liability insurance
      carrier, as settlement of litigation we had filed against the carrier seeking
      reimbursement under our policy of legal fees incurred since 2001 in connection
      with an investigation of CTT by the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC )
      (See    Item
      3. Legal Proceedings   ).
      Our
      insurance carrier also acknowledged that we had met our deductible under our
      policy relating to this matter, and confirmed that they will provide (and have
      provided) coverage, in accordance with the terms of the policy, for losses
      incurred in the SEC civil suit filed in August 2004.  

Page
          33 

Table
          of Contents   

Accordingly,
      we have recorded a credit and not any significant costs in 2005 relating to
      the
      SEC investigation and civil suit, compared to $73,000 of expense in
      2004. 

Patent
      enforcement expenses, net of reimbursements,    reflect
      our level of activity and vary depending on the stage of the litigation. Our
      overall activity in 2005 was higher than in 2004, principally due to litigation
      related to the LabCorp and several other homocysteine cases, and the Palatin
      arbitration. However, due to the income generated from new homocysteine
      licenses, we were able to recover a significant amount of expense incurred
      in
      2005 and prior years from the new revenues generated, which more than offset
      costs incurred in 2005, resulting in an overall credit balance for the year
      in
      the expense. 

Provision
      for income taxes  

In
      prior
      years, we generated significant federal and state income and alternative minimum
      tax losses, and these net operating losses ( NOLs ) were carried forward for
      income tax purposes to be used against future taxable income. This fiscal year,
      we will utilize a portion of our NOLs against our current year regular federal
      and state taxable income, effectively eliminating our regular income tax
      liabilities. However, we expect to be subject to the federal alternative minimum
      tax ( AMT ), where we are limited to using our NOLs against only 90% of our
      income, and our year-to-date provision is for our estimated AMT
      liability. 

The
      NOLs
      are an asset to us since we can use them to offset or reduce future taxable
      income and therefore reduce the amount of both federal and state income taxes
      to
      be paid in future years.   Previously,
      since we were incurring losses and could not be sure that we would have future
      taxable income to be able to use the benefit of our NOLs, we recorded a
      valuation allowance against the asset, reducing its book value to zero. As
      a
      result of the income we earned for the year, we reversed $2,038,000 of the
      valuation allowance, representing the amount of the NOL we will utilize to
      offset any income tax liability (excluding the AMT liability), on income earned
      during the year, and recorded a provision for income taxes of the same amount.
      The effective income tax rate of the provision for the year was 35.7%. The
      difference between the effective rate and our combined statutory federal and
      state rates of approximately 40.2% for the year, was due principally to the
      impact of dividend income, which is included in book income at its full amount
      but due to favorable tax regulations, is virtually excluded from taxable
      income.  
      We used
      our NOLs to eliminate our regular income tax liability, and the provision
      recorded principally is for our estimated AMT liability. We continue to have
      substantial federal and state operating and capital loss carryforwards to use
      against future regular taxable income. In addition, we can use our NOLs to
      reduce our future AMT liability. However, a significant portion of the NOLs
      remaining at July 31, 2005, approximately $4,055,000, were derived from income
      tax deductions related to the exercise of stock options. The tax effect of
      these
      deductions will be credited against capital in excess of par value at the time
      they are utilized for book purposes, and not credited to income. Thus we will
      not receive a benefit for these NOLs in our statement of
      operations. 

We
      did
      not record an income tax provision in 2004 since we incurred a substantial
      net
      operating loss for income tax purposes. This was due principally to the Unilens
      receivable that had no basis for book purposes but was fully valued for income
      tax purposes. As a result, the settlement with Unilens in October 2003 generated
      a significant loss on an income tax basis, compared to income of $1,045,000
      on a
      book basis. 

Page
          34 

Table
          of Contents   

Financial
      Condition and Liquidity  

Our
      liquidity requirements arise principally from our working capital needs,
      including funds needed to find and obtain new Technologies and to protect and
      enforce our intellectual property rights, if necessary. We fund our liquidity
      requirements with a combination of cash on hand and cash flows from operations,
      if any, including royalty legal awards. In addition, through July 2006, we
      were
      able to finance a portion of our liquidity requirements through sales of common
      stock pursuant to an equity financing arrangement (see below). 

At
      July
      31, 2006, we had no outstanding debt or available credit facility, and we
      believe that it would be very difficult for CTT to obtain any form of debt
      financing due to the current composition of our balance sheet, including a
      lack
      of hard assets against which to borrow, and the unpredictable nature of our
      annual cash flows. Thus, our financing options currently are limited, and we
      must rely on cash on hand and cash flows from operations, if any, though this
      situation could change in the future. We did obtain equity financing in 2004
      which we completed in 2006. We continue to review financing options for our
      business, which may in the future include more equity financing. However, since
      our current cash position is strong, we expect that if we do obtain any
      financing commitment, initially it would be utilized on a standby
      basis. 

We
      believe that the combination of our cash on hand, expected recurring revenues
      and any new revenues from executing our strategic plan will be sufficient to
      meet our current and anticipated operating cash requirements at least through
      fiscal 2007. Our strategic plan calls for us to increase our recurring revenues
      by bringing in new Technologies for licensing. However, we recognize that this
      plan will take a few years to fully develop, and in the interim without other
      sources of revenues or financing, we will continue to incur net losses and
      our
      cash position will continue to decline. 

Cash
      and
      cash equivalents consist of demand deposits and highly liquid, interest earning
      investments with maturities when purchased of three months or less, including
      overnight bank deposits and money market funds. We carry cash equivalents at
      cost, which approximates fair value. 

During
      the year ended July 31, 2006, we completed our equity financing (see below),
      which provided a significant amount of cash during the year. Since that
      financing has been completed, in 2007 we will be limited to financing our
      liquidity needs solely from cash on hand, and cash flow from operations, if
      any. 

At
      July
      31, 2006, cash and cash equivalents were $12,909,000 compared to
      $14,280  ,000
        at
      July
      31, 2005. Cash used in operating activities in 2006 was $3,527,000, compared to
      cash provided by operating activities of $5,007,000 in 2005. The decrease in
      cash provided by operations in the current year principally was the result
      of
      the loss incurred in 2006 compared to significant net income in 2005. Cash
      used
      in investing activities was $142,000, compared to cash provided by investing
      activities of $803,000 in the prior year. In 2006, we used cash to acquire
      equipment to replace existing assets and to equip new personnel, and made
      deposits on furniture for our new office space. In 2005, we received cash
      collections on the Unilens receivable, which was paid in full by the end of
      2005
      so we did not receive any cash during 2006. Net cash provided by financing
      activities was $2,299,000 in 2006, compared to $4,160,000 in 2005. The decrease
      in cash provided by financing activities in 2006 compared to 2005, was due
      to
      cash received in 2005 as the result of exercises of stock options. We receive
      cash equivalent to the exercise price of the stock option exercised. There
      were
      few stock option exercises in 2006. In both years we generated cash from sales
      of common stock pursuant to our equity financing arrangement, which was
      completed in 2006. Thus, currently we do not expect to generate any significant
      cash from investing activities in 2007. 

In
      addition to fluctuations in the amounts of retained royalties revenues reported,
      changes in royalties receivable and payable reflect our normal cycle of royalty
      collections and payments. 

Page
          35 

Table
          of Contents   

Funding
      and Capital Requirements  

Equity
      Financing 

In
      February 2004, we entered into an agreement with Fusion Capital Fund II, LLC
      ( Fusion Capital ) to sell up to $5 million of our common stock to Fusion
      Capital over a twenty (20) month period from the commencement date, which was
      May 6, 2004 (the  Stock Sale Agreement ). We had the right, which we exercised,
      to extend the term of the Stock Sale Agreement by six months. We also had the
      right to determine the timing and the amount of stock sold, if any, to Fusion
      Capital. In June 2006, the Stock Sale Agreement terminated upon reaching the
      $5
      million threshold of common stock sold to Fusion Capital. 

Pursuant
      to the Stock Sale Agreement, we issued 53,138 shares of our common stock to
      Fusion Capital at inception for its initial commitment (the  Initial Shares ),
      and issued 35,425 additional commitment shares to Fusion Capital on a pro-rata
      basis as we sold the $5 million of stock (collectively, the  Commitment
      Shares ). 

Cash
      received and common stock sold and issued pursuant to the Stock Sale Agreement
      were as follows: 

We
      had
      the option to enter into a second agreement with Fusion Capital for the sale
      of
      an additional $5 million of common stock on the same terms and conditions as
      the
      Stock Sale Agreement, but we did not exercise our option. 

Income
      taxes 

We
      currently have the benefit of using a portion of our accumulated NOLs to
      eliminate any future regular federal and state income tax liabilities. We will
      continue to receive this benefit until we have utilized all of our NOLs (federal
      and state). However, we cannot determine when and if we will be profitable
      and
      utilize the benefit of the remaining NOLs before they expire. 

Capital
      requirements 

We
      previously announced that part of our strategic plan was to achieve $10 million
      in annual recurring revenues over the next few years and achieve long-term
      profitability and increase shareholder value. To accomplish our goals, we have
      increased our efforts and are investing funds to explore new business
      opportunities, including expanding our marketing capabilities on a more global
      basis, searching for new sources of Technologies and to license those
      Technologies, offering services for the first time, and researching potential
      acquisition candidates or other strategic relationships. To accomplish our
      revenue goals, we have added more personnel to our business development team
      and
      added other personnel to support our expanding global business development
      activities. These activities require greater amounts of capital than we used
      previously. We expect this trend to continue. 

In
      addition, as explained below, in August 2006 we moved to a new office. In
      connection with the move to the new space we committed to spend in 2007 an
      aggregate of approximately $175,000 above our normal capital requirements,
      to
      purchase furniture and equipment for our new office space and make certain
      leasehold improvements. 

Page
          36 

Table
          of Contents   

The
      new
      office space we moved into in August 2006 is larger than our previous office
      to
      accommodate our additional staff and provide for more efficient operations,
      as
      all of our staff are now on one floor of the new building, compared to being
      split among two floors in the old office. There was no significant disruption
      or
      impact to our operations as a result of the move to the new office. However,
      since the new space is larger than the prior space, our new rent expense in
      2007
      and beyond will be approximately $100,000 - $125,000 more on an annual basis
      than we incurred in 2006. 

Other 

As
      a
      result of the investments described above, and the incurrence of increased
      rent
      costs, our cash operating costs have and will continue to increase significantly
      in the next fiscal year. The amounts and timing of our future cash requirements
      will depend on many factors, including the results of our operations and
      marketing efforts, the results and costs of legal proceedings, and any financing
      we obtain. To achieve and sustain profitability, we must license Technologies
      with sufficient current and long-term revenue streams, and continually add
      new
      licenses. However, obtaining rights to new Technologies, granting rights to
      licensees, enforcing intellectual property rights, and collecting royalty
      revenues are subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control
      and/or that we cannot currently anticipate. 

Contractual
      Obligations and Contingencies  

At
      July
      31, 2006, our contractual obligations were: 

Any
      other
      commitments we may have are contingent upon a future event. 

Contingencies  

Our
      directors, officers, employees and agents may claim indemnification in certain
      circumstances. We currently are exposed to potential indemnification claims
      in
      connection with the SEC civil suit, with a complaint filed by a former employee
      alleging discriminatory employment practices in violation of Section 806 of
      the
      Corporate and Criminal Fraud Accountability Act of 2002, and a complaint filed
      by our former President and CEO (see    Item
      3. Legal Proceedings   ).
      We
      seek to limit and reduce our potential financial obligations for indemnification
      by carrying directors and officers liability insurance (subject to
      deductibles). 

We
      also
      carry liability insurance, casualty insurance (for owned or leased tangible
      assets), and other insurance as needed   to
      cover
      us against potential and actual claims and lawsuits that occur in the ordinary
      course of our business  . 

Many
      of
      our license and service agreements provide that we apply upfront license fees,
      license fees and/or royalties we receive against amounts that our Clients or
      we
      have incurred for patent application, prosecution, issuance and maintenance
      costs. If we incur such costs, we expense them as we incur them, and reduce
      our
      expense if we are reimbursed from future fees and/or royalties we receive.
      If
      the reimbursement belongs to our Client, we record no revenue or
      expense. 

Page
          37 

Table
          of Contents   

As
      of
      July 31, 2006, CTT and its majority owned subsidiary, Vector Vision, Inc.
      ( VVI ), have remaining obligations, contingent upon receipt of certain
      revenues, to repay up to $199,006 and $224,127, respectively, in consideration
      of grant funding received in 1994 and 1995. CTT also is obligated to pay at
      the
      rate of 7.5% of its revenues, if any, from transferring rights to certain
      inventions supported by the grant funds. VVI is obligated to pay at rates of
      1.5% of its net sales of supported products or 15% of its revenues from
      licensing supported products, if any. We recognize these obligations only if
      we
      receive revenues related to the grant funds. No significant obligations were
      recognized in 2006 since the applicable revenues received were not
      significant. 

Currently,
      we engage independent consultants who provide us with business development,
      consulting and/or evaluation services under contracts that are cancelable on
      certain written notice. These contracts include contingencies for potential
      incentive compensation earned solely on sales resulting directly from the work
      of the consultant. We have neither accrued nor paid significant incentive
      compensation under such contracts. 

Critical
      Accounting Estimates  

The
      preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with
      accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
      requires that we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the
      reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
      statements, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the reporting
      period, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on the information
      available at the time, and assumptions we believe are reasonable. By their
      nature, estimates, assumptions and judgments are subject to change at any time,
      and may depend on factors we cannot control. As a result, if future events
      differ from our estimates, assumptions and judgments, we may need to adjust
      or
      revise them in later periods. 

We
      believe the following significant estimates, assumptions and judgments we used
      in preparing our consolidated financial statements are critical to understanding
      our financial condition and operations. 

Upfront
      license fees received  

Upfront
      license fees received in 2006 and 2005 from new licenses were recorded in
      retained royalties in accordance with our revenue recognition policies, which
      are described in the notes to our consolidated financial
      statements. 

Stock-based
      compensation  

We
      account for stock-based compensation on a fair value basis. Share-based
      compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the value of the award
      and is recognized as expense over the service (vesting) period. Determining
      the
      fair value of share-based awards at the grant date requires judgment, including,
      estimating the expected life of the stock option, volatility, and the amount
      of
      share-based awards that can be expected to be forfeited. Our estimates were
      based on our historical experience with stock option awards. 

Abbott
      receivable  

Included
      in receivables at July 31, 2006, is a receivable from Abbott which will be
      paid
      in January 2007, as long as our homocysteine patent is valid and enforceable.
      We
      do not believe that an allowance is required for this receivable and have not
      provided one. 

Equity
      securities  

We
      believe that unrealized decreases in the value of our equity securities are
      temporary and therefore we have not recognized any losses in earnings. If
      circumstances change or we otherwise determine that the decreases in value
      are
      other than temporary, then we will recognize losses at that time.   Equity
      securities are 

Page
          38 

Table
          of Contents   

classified
      as either a current or long-term asset depending upon our intent to hold or
      possibly dispose of the securities, although our intent is subject to
      change. 

Related
      Party Transactions  

Our
      board
      of directors determined that when a director s services are outside the normal
      duties of a director, we compensate the director at the rate of $1,000 per
      day,
      plus expenses (which is the same amount we pay a director for attending a
      one-day Board meeting). We classify these amounts as consulting expenses
      (included in personnel and other direct expenses relating to
      revenues). 

We
      incurred charges for consulting services (including expenses and use taxes)
      provided by one director of $1,000, $25,000 and $14,000, in 2006, 2005 and
      2004,
      respectively. We also incurred charges of $17,000 in 2006 for consulting
      services provided by a relative of our President and CEO. 

ITEM
              7A.     
             
                  QUANTITATIVE
                AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
                RISK   

We
      do not
      have significant market risk to the valuation of our assets other than risks
      related to our equity security holdings of Palatin and Clinuvel. The value
      of
      the Palatin stock is included in current assets in equity securities, while
      the
      value of the Clinuvel shares is included in noncurrent assets in equity
      securities, since our current intention is to hold the Clinuvel shares as a
      long
      term investment. The value of both assets is subject to market fluctuations
      in
      the per share price of the stock as well as foreign currency fluctuations
      relating to the Clinuvel shares, since Clinuvel common stock is traded on the
      Australian Stock Exchange, and the price per share of the stock is quoted in
      Australian dollars. We currently consider unrealized fluctuations in the fair
      value of both the Palatin and Clinuval shares to be temporary, and therefore
      have recorded changes in the fair values as part of other comprehensive loss,
      which is included as a component of equity. During the year ended July 31,
      2006,
      the following changes in fair value occurred with respect to the Palatin and
      Clinuvel shares: 

Page
          39 

Table
          of Contents   

ITEM
              8.     
             
                  FINANCIAL
                STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
                DATA   

Description  

Page  

Report
                  of Independent Registered Public Accounting
                  Firm  

41 

Consolidated
                  Balance Sheets  

42 

Consolidated
                  Statements of Operations  

43 

Consolidated
                  Statements of Changes in Shareholders 
                  Interest  

44 

Consolidated
                  Statements of Cash Flows  

45 

Notes
                  to Consolidated Financial
                  Statements  

46
                  - 74 

Page
          40 

Table
          of Contents   

REPORT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
      FIRM    

Board
      of
      Directors and Stockholders 

      Competitive
      Technologies, Inc. 

      Fairfield,
      Connecticut 

We
      have
      audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Competitive
      Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the
      related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders  interest
      and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2006.
      These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management.
      Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
      on our audits. 

We
      conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
      statements are free of material misstatement.   The
      Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of
      its
      internal control over financial reporting.   Our
      audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting
      as a
      basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances,
      but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
      Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no
      such opinion.     An
      audit
      also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
      disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
      used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
      overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide
      a
      reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In
      our
      opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly,
      in all material respects, the financial position of Competitive Technologies,
      Inc. and Subsidiaries at July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their
      operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
      July 31, 2006, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
      in
      the United States of America. 

/s/
      BDO
      Seidman, LLP 

      BDO
      Seidman, LLP 

Valhalla,
      New York 

      October
      4, 2006 

Page
          41 

Table
          of Contents   

COMPETITIVE
      TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Consolidated
      Balance Sheets  

See
        accompanying notes  

Page
          42 

Table
          of Contents   

COMPETITIVE
      TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Consolidated
      Statements of Operations  

See
        accompanying notes  

Page
          43 

Table
          of Contents   

COMPETITIVE
      TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Consolidated
      Statements of Changes in Shareholders 
Interest  

See
        accompanying notes  

Page
          44 

Table
          of Contents   

COMPETITIVE
      TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows  

See
        accompanying notes  

Page
          45 

Table
          of Contents   

COMPETITIVE
      TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

1.   
             
                 BUSINESS    
                AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION  

Competitive
      Technologies, Inc. ( CTT ) and its wholly-owned subsidiary, CTT Trading Company,
      LLC ( CTT Trading ), and majority-owned subsidiary, Vector Vision, Inc. ( VVI ),
      (collectively,  we  or  us ) provide patent and technology licensing and
      commercialization services throughout the world (with concentrations in the
      U.S.A. and Asia), with respect to a broad range of life and physical sciences,
      electronics, and nano (microscopic particles) technology originally invented
      by
      various individuals, corporations and universities. We are compensated for
      our
      services primarily by sharing in the license and royalty fees generated from
      our
      successful licensing of our clients  technologies. 

The
      consolidated financial statements include the accounts of CTT, CTT Trading
      and
      VVI. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
      consolidation. 

2.   
             
                 SUMMARY
                OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
                POLICIES  

Use
      of Estimates  

The
      preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
      principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires that
      we
      make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
      of
      assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets
      and
      liabilities. Actual results could differ from our estimates, and the differences
      could be significant. 

Revenue
      Recognition  

Retained
      royalties  

We
      earn
      revenues primarily from patent and technology license and royalty fees. In
      most
      cases, we obtain or license the rights to an invention, patent or intellectual
      property (collectively, the  Technology ), from a university, inventor, owner,
      corporation and/or assignee of the Technology (collectively,  Clients ), and
      then license or sublicense our rights to our customers, who either commercialize
      or further test and develop the Technology. Generally, the licenses we enter
      into with our customers are for the duration of the Technology life, which
      usually is determined by applicable patent law. Our customers (licensees) pay
      us
      royalties based on their usage or sales of the Technology, and we share the
      fees
      with our Clients. When we receive periodic reports of sales of licensed products
      and royalties earned from our customers, or we receive payment, whichever occurs
      first, we record revenues for our portion of the royalty, and record our
      obligation to our Clients for their portion. The revenues we record are solely
      our share of the gross revenues, net of our Clients  shares, which usually are
      fixed percentages. For early stage Technologies that may not be ready for
      commercial development without further research, we may receive annual minimum
      royalty payments or milestone payments based on research progress or subsequent
      sublicense or joint venture proceeds. We receive royalty payments based on
      our
      customers  usage or sales of the Technology, and, under certain of our
      sublicense or license arrangements, we receive an upfront license fee. In
      certain cases we may waive the first year or few years royalty fees in
      consideration of the upfront license fee. Occasionally, we apply the upfront
      license fee or initial royalty fees to reimburse our Client s and/or our patent
      prosecution and/or maintenance costs incurred. In 

Page
          46 

Table
          of Contents   

these
      cases, we record the payments as a reduction of expense, and not as revenue.
      If
      the reimbursement belongs solely to our Client, we record no revenue or expense.
      As a result, a new Technology may not generate significant revenues in its
      early
      years. 

We
      stipulate the terms of our licensing arrangements in separate written agreements
      with our Clients and with our customers. The specific terms of such agreements
      generally are required to be confidential pursuant to the terms of the
      agreement. In the majority of the licenses and sublicenses we grant, we enter
      into single element arrangements with our customers, under which we have no
      significant obligations after executing the agreements. We usually have a right
      to audit reported revenues as part of our agreements with our customers.
      Retained royalties earned are of the following types: 

Non-refundable,
      upfront license fees  

Unless
      we
      remit the upfront license fee to our Clients to reimburse them for patent
      prosecution and/or maintenance costs, we recognize our share of non-refundable,
      upfront license fees received as revenue upon execution of a license or
      sublicense agreement, and collection of the upfront fee from our customers
      since, upon the occurrence of these two events, we have an arrangement with
      our
      customer, delivery is complete, collection of the fee has occurred and we have
      no continuing obligations. 

Royalty
      fees  

Although
      the royalty rate is fixed in the license agreement, the amount of royalties
      earned is contingent upon our customer s usage of our Technology. Thus, the
      amount of royalties we earn in each reporting period is contingent on the
      outcome of events that are not within our control, and is not directly tied
      to
      services that we provide. We determine the amount of royalty fee revenue to
      record when we can estimate the amount of royalty fees that we have earned
      for a
      period, which occurs either when we receive cash from our customers or we
      receive periodic royalty reports from our customers listing usage or sales
      of
      licensed products and royalties earned in the period. We receive these reports
      monthly, quarterly, or semi-annually. Since reports are not received on the
      same
      frequency, revenues will fluctuate from one quarter to another. 

In
      certain limited instances, we may enter into multiple element arrangements
      under
      which we may have continuing service obligations. Unlike single element
      arrangements (described above), we defer all revenue from multiple element
      arrangements until we have delivered all the required elements. We determine
      delivery of elements based on the verifiable objective evidence available.
      Currently, we do not have any multiple element or milestone billing
      arrangements, though we have had such arrangements in the past and could have
      such arrangements in the future. We also may have milestone billing
      arrangements. We evaluate milestone billing arrangements on a case by case
      basis, recording revenues under the milestone payment method, whereby we
      recognize non-refundable, upfront license fees ratably over the entire
      arrangement and milestone payments as we achieve the specified
      milestone. 

Retained
      royalties from foreign licensees were $477,052, $757,322, and $519,622 for
      2006,
      2005 and 2004, respectively, including $184,209, $252,480, and $246,855,
      respectively, from the gallium arsenide portfolio. Retained royalties from
      Japanese licenses were $334,203, $402,744, and $396,849, in 2006, 2005 and
      2004,
      respectively. 

Page
          47 

Table
          of Contents   

Royalty
      legal awards  

We
      earn
      non-recurring revenues from royalty legal awards, principally from patent
      infringement actions filed on behalf of our Clients and/or us. Patent
      infringement litigation cases occur generally when a customer or another party
      either ignores our patent rights, or challenges the legal standing of our
      Clients  or our Technology rights. These cases, even if settled out of court,
      may take several years to complete, and the expenses may be borne by our
      Clients, by us, or shared. We share royalty legal awards in accordance with
      the
      agreements we have with our Clients, usually after reimbursing each party for
      their related legal expenses. We recognize royalty legal award revenue when
      our
      rights to litigation awards are final and unappealable and we have assurance
      of
      collecting those awards, or when we have collected litigation awards in cash
      (from the adverse party or by sale of our rights to another party without
      recourse), and we have no obligation or are very unlikely to be obligated to
      repay such collected amounts. Proceeds from cases settled out of court are
      recorded as retained royalties. 

Legal
      awards in patent infringement cases usually include an amount for interest,
      as
      determined by the court, and payable through the date the judgment is paid.
      The
      court awards interest to recognize the fact that we were entitled to the income
      at a prior date but did not receive it at the time it was due. An amount for
      interest also may be included in other settlements with customers. If interest
      is included in an award or settlement, we record it as interest income generally
      when we receive it. 

Unless
      otherwise specified, we record all other revenues as we earn them. 

Concentration
      of Revenues  

Approximately
      $3,924,090, or 86%, of 2006 retained royalties was derived from four
      Technologies: $3,196,491 or 70%, from the homocysteine assay, $483,390, or
      11%,
      from Ethyol  (an agent that reduces certain side effects of chemotherapy),
      $184,209, or 4%, from gallium arsenide patents (used to improve semiconductor
      operating characteristics), and $60,000, or 1%, from our male and female sexual
      dysfunction therapeutic Technology. In 2005 and 2004, we derived approximately
      96% and 74%, respectively, of our retained royalties from the same four
      Technologies. 

The
      homocysteine assay is a diagnostic blood test used to determine homocysteine
      levels and a corresponding deficiency of folate or vitamin B12. Our U.S. patent
      that covers this assay expires in July 2007, and we will not receive any
      significant royalties after that date. Our retained royalties from Ethyol are
      limited to a maximum of $500,000 per calendar year, and since calendar 2002
      we
      have received the maximum each year. This patent expires in December 2010.
      The
      gallium arsenide patents began expiring in 2001, and the last patent expires
      in
      September 2006, after which we do not expect to receive significant
      royalties. 

Certain
      of our other patents have expired recently or will soon expire. In 2006, we
      derived retained royalties from licenses on twenty-two (22) patented
      Technologies. We expect royalties from eleven (11) of those patented
      Technologies to expire in the next five years. Those patented Technologies
      represented approximately 92% of our retained royalties in 2006. Fiscal 2006
      retained royalties of $3,199,491, or 70%, $280,189, or 6%, and $484,266, or
      11%, respectively, were from patents expiring in fiscal 2007, 2009 and 2011.
      We
      seek to replace revenues from expiring patents with revenues from new
      Technologies, but we cannot be sure as to the timing of any new
      revenues. 

Page
          48 

Table
          of Contents   

Expenses  

We
      recognize expenses related to evaluating, patenting and licensing inventions,
      and enforcing intellectual property rights in the period incurred. 

Personnel
      and other direct expenses relating to revenues include employee salaries and
      benefits, marketing and consulting expenses related to Technologies and specific
      revenue initiatives, domestic and foreign patent legal filing, prosecution
      and
      maintenance expenses, net of reimbursements, amortization and impairment of
      intangible assets acquired, and other direct costs relating to revenue.
      Costs of independent contractors who assist us in licensing specific
      Technologies also are included in personnel and other direct expenses, as are
      costs of royalty audits. 

General
      and administrative expenses include directors  fees and expenses, expenses
      related to being a publicly held company, professional service expenses
      (financing, audit and legal, except for patent related legal), rent and other
      general business and operating expenses. 

Patent
      enforcement expenses, net of reimbursements, include direct costs incurred
      to
      enforce our patent rights, excluding personnel related costs. In certain
      instances we recover reimbursement of amounts previously expensed from future
      revenues received. We record our reimbursement as a reduction of expense in
      the
      period in which we can estimate the amount that we will recover. 

Cash
      and Cash Equivalents  

Cash
      and
      cash equivalents consist of demand deposits and highly liquid, interest earning
      investments with maturities when purchased of three months or less, including
      overnight bank deposits and money market funds. We carry cash equivalents at
      cost, which approximates fair value. 

Equity
      Securities  

Equity
      securities are carried at fair value. Fair value is defined as the price
      quoted on the stock exchange in which the stock is traded at the balance sheet
      date. Unrealized holding gains and losses that are judged to be temporary are
      excluded from earnings and recorded as a component of other comprehensive income
      or loss until realized. Declines in fair value judged to be other than temporary
      are included in income at the time that the determination is made. Equity
      securities are classified as either a current or noncurrent asset depending
      upon our intent to hold or possibly dispose of the securities, although our
      intent is subject to change. 

Property
      and Equipment  

Property
      and equipment are stated at cost less an allowance for depreciation.
      Expenditures for normal maintenance and repair are charged to expense as
      incurred. The costs of depreciable assets are charged to operations on a
      straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives (3 to 5 years for
      equipment) or the terms of the related lease for leasehold improvements. The
      cost and related accumulated depreciation or amortization of property and
      equipment are removed from the accounts upon retirement or other disposition,
      and any resulting gain or loss is reflected in earnings. 

Intangible
      Assets Acquired  

Intangible
      assets acquired are comprised of certain licenses and patented technologies
      acquired in 1996, and are stated at the lower of cost or estimated fair value.
      We amortize that value on a straight-line basis over the estimated remaining
      lives of the assets. 

Page
          49 

Table
          of Contents   

Impairment
      of Long-lived and Intangible Assets Acquired  

We
      review
      our long-lived and intangible assets acquired for impairment to determine if
      the
      carrying amount of the asset is recoverable. If the estimated fair value is
      less
      than the carrying amount of the asset, we record an impairment loss that is
      measured by the amount that the carrying value of the asset exceeds its
      estimated fair value. If a quoted market price is available for the asset or
      a
      similar asset, we use it in determining the estimated fair value. We also
      re-evaluate the remaining useful life of the asset and adjust the useful life
      accordingly. 

Income
      Taxes  

Income
      taxes are accounted for on the asset and liability method. The provision for
      income taxes is the estimated amount of our income tax liability for the year,
      combined with the change during the year in deferred tax assets and liabilities.
      We recognize deferred income taxes for the future income tax consequences of
      differences between the income tax and financial reporting bases of assets
      and
      liabilities at each balance sheet date. We base the amount of deferred income
      taxes recorded on enacted income tax laws and statutory income tax rates
      applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect our
      taxable income. We establish valuation allowances against deferred income tax
      assets to reduce their carrying values to the amount that we estimate we are
      more likely than not to realize. In addition, we may be subject to the
      alternative minimum tax ( AMT ). We record any AMT liability in the year in
      which it is incurred. 

Net
      Income (Loss) Per Share  

We
      calculate basic net income (loss) per share based on the weighted
      average number of common shares outstanding during the period without giving
      any
      effect to potentially dilutive securities. Net income (loss) per
      share, assuming dilution, is calculated giving effect to all potentially
      dilutive securities outstanding during the period. 

Stock-Based
      Compensation  

Effective
      August 1, 2005 (the beginning of our current fiscal year), we adopted Financial
      Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  ( FAS
      123R ), which  
      establishes the accounting required for share-based compensation, including
      stock options. FAS 123R requires us to measure the fair value at the grant
      date,
      as defined in FAS 123R, of all share-based awards, and recognize such value
      as
      compensation expense in our statements of operations over the requisite service
      (vesting) period. We elected to adopt FAS 123R using a modified prospective
      application, whereby the provisions of the statement were applied going forward
      only from the date of adoption to new (issued subsequent to July 31, 2005)
      stock
      option awards, and for the portion of any previously issued and outstanding
      stock option awards which vested after the date of adoption. Thus, we recognized
      as expense the fair value of stock options issued prior to August 1, 2005,
      but
      vesting after August 1, 2005, over the remaining vesting period. In addition,
      compensation expense must be recognized for any awards modified, repurchased,
      or
      cancelled after the date of adoption. Under the modified prospective
      application, no restatement of previously issued results was required. We use
      the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to measure fair value, which is the
      same
      method we used in prior years for disclosure purposes. This model requires
      the
      use of subjective input assumptions, including estimated life and related
      volatility, and expected forfeitures over the term of the grant. The estimate
      of
      forfeitures previously was not required for disclosure purposes and is a new
      variable for us. All of our assumptions are based upon historical experience;
      however, actual results could differ significantly from our current
      estimates. 

Page
          50 

Table
          of Contents   

The
      adoption of this pronouncement has resulted in our recognizing noncash
      compensation expense related to stock options granted to employees, which is
      included in personnel and other direct expenses related to revenues, and stock
      options granted to our directors, which is included in   general
      and administrative expenses. 

Supplemental
      Cash Flow Information  

Noncash
      investing and financing activities are excluded from the Consolidated Statements
      of Cash Flows. In 2006, our noncash investing activities were comprised of
      a net
      $27,334 unrealized holding loss on our Clinuvel and Palatin common stock (both
      companies are defined below). Noncash financing activities included $149,962,
      $174,973, and $131,223, in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, of stock
      issued pursuant to our 401(k) plan and a directors' stock plan. In 2005, our
      noncash investing activities were comprised of a net $267,383 unrealized holding
      loss on our Clinuvel common stock. Noncash financing activities included $46,410
      of stock tendered for an option exercise. In 2004, our noncash investing
      activities included $696,846 for the recognition of a receivable previously
      fully reserved, with credits to income and accrued expenses and other
      liabilities. Our noncash financing activities included $712,636, representing
      the unpaid fee to our financial advisor and the estimated fair value of our
      common stock and warrants issued pursuant to our equity financing, and $131,223
      of stock issued under our stock option plans. We charged the estimated value
      of
      the stock and warrants issued pursuant to our equity financing to deferred
      equity financing costs, and credited capital in excess of par
      value. 

Fiscal
      Year  

Our
      fiscal year ends July 31, and our first, second, third and fourth quarters
      end
      October 31, January 31, April 30 and July 31, respectively. Thus, 2006 is the
      year ended July 31, 2006. 

3.  

RETAINED
                ROYALTIES: PRIOR YEAR LICENSES GRANTED AND
                SETTLEMENTS  

Abbott
      Laboratories, Inc.  

In
      December 2004, we granted Abbott Laboratories, Inc. ( Abbott ) a license to sell
      tests used to measure homocysteine levels. The license relieved Abbott s
      customers from their obligation to pay us royalties on tests performed using
      the
      Abbott homocysteine assay. The license also released Abbott s customers of any
      obligation to pay us royalties for past homocysteine tests performed using
      Abbott assays, but does not entitle them to any refund of any royalties
      previously paid to us. The term of the license is through July 2007, the
      expiration date of the patent, with certain limited exceptions. 

Pursuant
      to the license, Abbott paid us a one-time, non-refundable and non-creditable
      (against future royalties) upfront license fee, and agreed to pay certain
 Milestone Fees  (as defined in the license), and per test royalties on
      homocysteine assay sales in the United States after January 1, 2006. No per
      test
      royalties were due from Abbott in calendar year 2005. We recorded in retained
      royalties our share of the upfront license fee, which was $5,200,000 in 2005,
      and accrued over calendar 2005 the present value of the Milestone Fees. The
      difference between the present value and the gross amount of the Milestone
      Fees
      was recorded in interest income. Our share of the Milestone Fees aggregated
      to
      $1,600,000, of which we were paid $800,000 in February 2006, with the remaining
      $800,000 due to be paid to us on January 31, 2007, as long as our patent is
      valid and enforceable. As of July 31, 2006, we had accrued a gross total of
      $1,967,655 of Milestone Fees in receivables. 

Page
          51 

Table
          of Contents   

Diagnostic
      Products Corporation  

Effective
      November 1, 2004, we granted Diagnostic Products Corporation ( DPC ) a license
      to sell tests used to measure homocysteine levels. The license relieved DPC s
      customers from their obligation to pay us royalties on tests performed using
      DPC s products, and also released DPC s customers of any obligation to pay
      royalties to us for past homocysteine tests performed using DPC s assays, but
      does not entitle them to any refund of any royalties previously paid to us.
      Pursuant to this license, DPC paid us a one-time, non-refundable and
      non-creditable (against future royalties) upfront license fee, our share of
      which was $550,000, and recorded in 2005, and per test royalties on homocysteine
      assay sales in the United States after November 1, 2004. We recorded in retained
      royalties our share of the upfront license fee in 2005. The term of the license
      is through July 2007, the expiration date of the patent, with certain limited
      exceptions. 

Axis-Shield  

On
      April
      28, 2005, we announced that we had settled all outstanding litigation with
      Axis-Shield plc and Axis-Shield, ASA (collectively,  Axis-Shield ). Pursuant to
      the settlement, Axis-Shield was granted a license   to
      sell
      tests used to measure homocysteine levels  ,
      paid us
      a  
      non-refundable, non-creditable  
      upfront
      license fee, and agreed to pay royalties to us from the date of the license.
        The
      license also released Axis-Shield s customers of any obligation to pay royalties
      to us for past homocysteine tests performed using Axis-Shield s assays, but does
      not entitle them to any refund of any royalties previously paid to us.
  The
      term
      of the license is through July 2007, the expiration date of the patent. All
      of
      the litigation between the parties was dismissed with prejudice shortly
      thereafter. 

Bayer
      Corporation  

On
      October 21, 2004, we granted Bayer Corporation, et al., ( Bayer ) a license
      under which Bayer agreed to pay us a non-refundable, non-creditable upfront
      license fee and royalties on sales of homocysteine assays beginning as of July
      1, 2004. The upfront license fee   was
      paid
      one-half upon signing the license and the other half in October 2005.
  We
      recorded our share of the upfront license fee in 2006 and 2005 as it was paid,
      since the license is cancelable. This license settled a complaint we filed
      previously against Bayer alleging infringement of our patent covering
      homocysteine assays. The litigation was dismissed with prejudice after the
      license was signed. 

Other
      homocysteine licenses  

In
      2006
      and 2005, we also granted new licenses to sell tests used to measure
      homocysteine levels to other laboratories and distributors. These licenses
      provide for a non-refundable, non-creditable upfront license fee, the amount
      of
      which varies from licensee to licensee, back royalties up through the date
      of
      the license, and a royalty to be paid to us from the date of the license forward
      based on a fixed fee per test. The amount of the fixed fee per test is
      determined based on estimated volume.   The
      term
      of all of the licenses granted is through July 2007, the expiration date of
      the
      patent. 

We
      believe that we currently have licenses with the most significant distributors
      and laboratories in the United States that sell and/or perform tests used to
      measure homocysteine levels. However, since we also believe that there still
      are
      others using and/or selling tests without a license, we continue to monitor
      the
      market to protect the patent rights of ourselves, our clients, and our current
      license holders, and have filed patent enforcement actions against those whom
      we
      believe are infringing on our patent rights. 

Page
          52 

Table
          of Contents   

Palatin
      Technologies, Inc.  

In
      the
      prior year, p  ursuant
      to a mediated settlement agreement with   Palatin
      Technologies, Inc. ( Palatin ) (for a description of the mediated agreement and
      other issues with Palatin, see Note 18),   Palatin
      made a cash payment to us of $1,700,000, our share of which was $680,000, and
      which we recorded in retained royalties in 2005. In addition, Palatin further
      agreed to issue to us promptly 170,000 shares of Palatin unrestricted common
      stock. On July 5, 2005, Palatin issued restricted shares to us that were not
      registered for resale, thus we were   restricted
      from selling, transferring or otherwise disposing of the shares. W  e
      estimated our share of the value of the shares to be $102,816, representing
      the
      estimated value of the common stock that we were owed on the day the settlement
      was reached, less a 20% discount to reflect the impact of the sale restriction.
      This amount was accrued in retained royalties. The total recorded in 2005 for
      the settlement was $782,816. At July 31, 2005, since Palatin had not given
      us
      unrestricted shares, we included the value of the shares in
      receivables. 

On
      October 13, 2005, Palatin filed a registration statement (prospectus) with
      the
      Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) to register the restricted shares for
      sale, and we later determined that we could trade the shares even though the
      legend is still in place. As a result, in 2006 we reversed $25,704, which was
      the original 20% discount to the value of the Palatin shares. The unrealized
      gain on the reversal was recorded as an increase to the value of the asset
      and a
      credit to other comprehensive income (loss), which is included as a component
      of
      shareholders  interest. We also reclassified the shares to equity securities
      included in current assets, as we may sell the shares at any time. We hold
      the
      shares of Palatin on our behalf and on behalf of our client. Other unrealized
      changes in the fair value of the shares are included in other comprehensive
      income (loss), since we currently believe that the changes are temporary, except
      that we do not recognize changes in the fair value of the portion of the shares
      that we hold on behalf of our Client. There were no realized gains or losses
      relating to the Palatin shares during 2006. 

JDS
      Uniphase Corporation  

On
      March
      31, 2005, we announced that we had resolved litigation filed in October 2004
      against JDS Uniphase Corporation ( JDS Uniphase ). The settlement was for back
      royalties determined as a result of a prior year royalty audit and subsequent
      litigation relating to an expired patent. As a result, we recognized our share
      of the revenues, $607,411, in retained royalties, which was net of the costs
      of
      the audit. 

Summary
      of licenses granted and settlement activity  

The
      aggregate total retained royalties recorded in 2006 for non-refundable,
      non-creditable upfront license fees, was $459,968. Of this amount, $386,178
      was
      from homocysteine licenses. In 2005, we recorded $7,586,598 in retained
      royalties, representing the aggregate total received during the year for the
      non-refundable, non-creditable upfront homocysteine license fees, the sublicense
      fee from Palatin, and the settlement of the back royalty audit with JDS
      Uniphase. Of this amount, $6,181,117 was from homocysteine licenses. These
      revenues did not recur in the same magnitude in 2006, and may not recur at
      all
      in subsequent years, or may recur in different magnitudes. Without these upfront
      license fees and other revenues our retained royalties for 2006 and 2005 would
      have been $4,086,847 and $4,051,611, respectively. There were no significant
      upfront license fees and no royalty audit settlements in 2004. 

Page
          53 

Table
          of Contents   

4.   
             
                 ROYALTY
                LEGAL AWARDS  

2005  

In
      the
      prior year, pursuant to decisions against Laboratory Corporation of America
      Holdings d/b/a LabCorp ( LabCorp ), we received $920,552, from which we recorded
      $815,492 in royalty legal awards and $105,060 in interest income in 2005
  (for
      a
      description of this case, see Note 18)  .
      The
      payment did not include attorneys  fees or court costs previously awarded from
      the original case that were under appeal with the court. Subsequently, LabCorp
      lost the appeal, and on April 15, 2005, we announced that we had received
      payment from LabCorp for the attorneys  fees and court costs. Our share of the
      payment was $231,056, and we recorded an additional $221,121 in royalty legal
      awards and $9,935 in interest income in 2005, for a total of $1,036,613 in
      retained royalties in 2005. 

2004  

On
      April
      19, 2004, the U.S. Supreme Court (the  Supreme Court ) denied the defendant
      Wyeth s petition for a writ of certiorari (a writ of certiorari is a petition
      requesting the high court to review an appeal) in litigation involving
      Materna   TM   ,
      a
      prenatal vitamin compound, and in which we had an interest in the outcome.
      The
      decision by the Supreme Court effectively upheld the original judgment of the
      lower court (made in 1997), and finalized this case. On the same day, a bond
      previously posted by the defendant was released to all parties, and the judgment
      and award were satisfied. We received approximately $3,858,000, which was our
      remaining portion of the court award. From our proceeds we paid one of our
      shareholders $312,500, plus a nominal amount for interest, to satisfy a
      non-recourse sale and assignment of a portion of our award to the shareholder
      earlier in 2004 for $250,000 in cash (of the $250,000, we recorded $231,986
      in
      royalty legal awards and the balance in interest income). The remaining net
      proceeds were $3,543,774, of which $3,271,063 was recorded in royalty legal
      awards and $272,711 was recorded in interest income, net. In order to raise
      cash, in 2004 we also previously sold $1,125,000 of our award on a non-recourse
      basis to an outside finance firm for $900,000 in cash. From this sale we
      recorded $835,787 in royalty legal awards and the balance in interest income.
      Total revenue recorded in 2004 aggregated to $4,693,774, with $4,338,836
      recorded in royalty legal awards and the remaining $354,938 recorded as interest
      income, net. 

5.   
             
                 DIVIDENDS
                RECEIVED  

In
      2005,
      we received three separate dividends from Melanotan Corporation ( MelanoTan ),
      in which we have an ownership interest of approximately 20.9%.   We
      previously had purchased the shares of MelanoTan for a nominal amount, and,
      in a
      separate transaction, we licensed to MelanoTan certain rights relating to a
      sunless tanning technology that we own. The technology may lessen or prevent
      skin cancer caused by unprotected sun exposure.   MelanoTan
      sublicensed the rights to Clinuvel Pharmaceuticals Limited (formerly EpiTan
      Limited,  Clinuvel ) and also had received shares of Clinuvel. (MelanoTan has no
      operations of its own). 

Clinuvel
      essentially is a research and development company that is in the process of
      conducting safety and efficacy trials, and evaluating the Technology for future
      commercialization. They currently are planning expanded Phase 2 and initial
      Phase 3 (generally the last stage of testing required prior to approval to
      market) trials for the Technology in Australia (trials for use in the U.S.
      will
      begin after that). Clinuvel common stock is traded on the Australian Stock
      Exchange (quoted in Australian dollars) under the symbol CUV. 

Page
          54 

Table
          of Contents   

In
      October 2004, MelanoTan paid its shareholders a dividend in the form of shares
      of Clinuvel common stock. As a result, we received 1,252,346 shares of Clinuvel
      common stock. As a condition to receiving the dividend, we agreed not to sell,
      transfer or otherwise dispose of the shares before October 21,
      2005. 

We
      estimated the fair value of the Clinuvel common stock using the closing price
      of
      the shares ($0.93 per share, Australian dollars), and the exchange rate for
      converting Australian dollars to U.S. dollars ($0.7289 Australian dollars to
      $1.00 U.S. dollar), on the date that MelanoTan s board of directors approved the
      dividend. We then discounted the value of the shares using a 20% discount factor
      to recognize the estimated impact of the sale restriction and the risk
      associated with an investment in Clinuvel stock, since Clinuvel had minimal
      revenues and had incurred substantial accumulated net losses. We recorded the
      estimated value of the shares, $679,149, as dividend income. 

In
      May
      2005 MelanoTan paid a special cash dividend. Our share of the dividend was
      $104,360. In addition, in June 2005, MelanoTan paid another dividend in the
      form
      of Clinuvel common stock. As a result, we received an additional 660,686 shares
      of Clinuvel common stock and recorded additional dividend income of $146,533.
      As
      a condition to receiving this dividend, we again agreed not to sell, transfer
      or
      otherwise dispose of the shares before October 21, 2005. We valued the shares
      and dividend received in the same manner as the October 2004 dividend, except
      with a price per share of $0.36 Australian dollars, and an exchange rate of
      $0.7701 Australian dollars to $1.00 U.S. dollar. In total in 2005, we recorded
      $930,042 of dividend income from MelanoTan, and we received and directly own
      1,913,032 shares of Clinuvel common stock. Our ownership percentage of
      Clinuvel s common stock is not significant.   As
      a
      result of the dividends, MelanoTan does not own any more stock of Clinuvel
      and
      our ownership in MelanoTan has limited value.  
      We
      recorded the value of the shares as a noncurrent asset in equity securities,
      as
      we intend to hold the shares as a long-term investment. There was no change
      in
      our intentions in 2006, thus the shares continue to be recorded as a noncurrent
      asset in equity securities. 

In
      2006,
      the sale restriction lapsed and we now are free to sell, transfer and dispose
      of
      the shares. As a result, we reversed the original 20% discount to the value
      of
      the shares and recorded an unrealized gain of $206,420 to increase the value
      of
      the asset,   with
      the
      credit to other comprehensive income (loss). Other unrealized changes in the
      fair value of the Clinuvel shares due to market price and foreign exchange
      rate
      fluctuations from the date of receipt also have been recorded in other
      comprehensive income (loss), since we believe that the changes are temporary.
      There were no realized gains or losses relating to the Clinuvel shares during
      2006. 

6.   
             
                 SETTLEMENT
                WITH UNILENS, NET  

In
      1989,
      we sold certain assets of our former majority-owned subsidiary, University
      Optical Products Co., to Unilens Corp. USA ( Unilens ), for $6 million,
      including a $5.5 million installment receivable. Due to uncertainties related
      to
      collection of the installment receivable, we previously wrote off the entire
      balance of the receivable. 

In
      July
      2003, we resumed collection efforts with respect to the installment receivable,
      and in October 2003, we reached an agreement to settle all prior claims and
      to
      terminate all prior agreements between Unilens and us in exchange for a note
      receivable from Unilens. Unilens agreed to pay us an aggregate total of
      $1,250,000, with $100,000 paid to us in October 2003 upon execution of the
      agreement, and the remaining balance payable in quarterly installments of the
      greater of $100,000 or an amount equal to 50% of royalties received by Unilens
      from a certain licensee. 

Page
          55 

Table
          of Contents   

During
      2004 we recognized $1,045,396 of income relating to the settlement, representing
      our share of cash received and the net present value of the note receivable
      at
      July 31, 2004. We estimated the net present value of the note using a 10%
      discount factor. Previously we had received 135,000 shares of Unilens common
      stock as partial payment against the 1989 installment receivable. Due to
      circumstances at that time, we did not assign a cost basis to the shares when
      we
      received them. In 2004, we sold our shares and recorded the net proceeds of
      $157,355 as income. In the aggregate we recorded income of $1,202,751 in
      2004. 

In
      2005,
      initially we recorded only interest income on the note. In the fourth quarter
      of
      that year, we recorded an additional gain of $32,408, since Unilens had
      accelerated payments on the note and paid the balance in full faster than we
      had
      estimated when we recorded the net present value of the note. As of July 31,
      2005, the note was paid in full. 

7.   
             
                 INCOME
                TAXES  

In
      current and prior years, we generated significant federal and state income
      and
      alternative minimum tax losses, and these net operating losses ( NOLs ) were
      carried forward for income tax purposes to be used against future taxable
      income. In 2005, we utilized a portion of our NOL carry-forwards against our
      regular federal and state taxable income, effectively eliminating our 2005
      regular income tax liabilities. However, in 2005 we expected to be subject
      to
      the AMT liability, where we are limited to using 90% of our NOL carry-forwards
      against taxable income. Our 2005 provision of $10,400 principally was for our
      estimated net AMT liability. In 2006, we incurred a loss but did not record
      a
      benefit since, consistent with prior years, we provided a 100% valuation
      allowance against the asset. However, we did record a $12,000 benefit due to
      a
      change in estimate of the fiscal year 2005 federal AMT liability. In addition,
      we determined that we met certain conditions that made us eligible for a $35,189
      refund of AMT paid in 2005 (which we received subsequent to 2006). As a result,
      in 2006 we recorded in total a benefit for income taxes of $47,189. We will
      be
      subject to the full AMT in future years. 

We
      did
      not record an income tax provision in 2004 since we incurred a substantial
      net
      operating loss for income tax purposes. This was due principally to the Unilens
      receivable that had no basis for book purposes but was fully valued for income
      tax purposes. As a result, the settlement with Unilens in October 2003 generated
      a significant loss on an income tax basis and income of $1,045,396 on a book
      basis. 

A
      reconciliation of our effective income tax rate compared to the U.S. federal
      statutory rate is as follows: 

Page
          56 

Table
          of Contents   

Net
      deferred tax assets consist of the following: 

At
      July
      31, 2006, we had aggregate federal net operating loss carryforwards of
      approximately $10,074,000, which expire at various times through 2026, with
      the
      majority of them expiring after 2011. A majority of our federal NOLs can be
      used
      to reduce taxable income used in calculating our AMT liability. We also have
      state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $6,591,000 that expire
      in fiscal year 2008 and 2009. 

A
      significant portion of the NOLs remaining at July 31, 2006, approximately
      $4,057,000, were derived from income tax deductions related to the exercise
      of
      stock options. The tax effect of these deductions will be credited against
      capital in excess of par value at the time they are utilized for book purposes,
      and not credited to income. Thus we will never receive a benefit for these
      NOLs
      in our statement of operations. 

Changes
      in the valuation allowance were as follows: 

Our
      ability to derive future tax benefits from the net deferred tax assets is
      uncertain and therefore we continue to provide a full valuation allowance
      against the assets, reducing the carrying value to zero. We will reverse the
      valuation allowance if future financial results are sufficient to support a
      carrying value for the deferred tax assets. 

Page
          57 

Table
          of Contents   

8.   
             
                 NET
                INCOME (LOSS) PER COMMON
                SHARE  

The
      following sets forth the denominator used in the calculations of basic net
      income (loss) per share and net income (loss) per share assuming
      dilution: 

Options
      and warrants to purchase 992,973, 161,000, and 567,398 shares of our common
      stock at July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were outstanding but were
      not included in the computation of net income (loss) per share because
      they were anti-dilutive. Due to the net loss incurred for the year ended July
      31, 2006, the denominator used in the calculation of basic net loss per share
      was the same as that used for net loss per share, assuming dilution, since
      the
      effect of any options and warrants would have been anti-dilutive. 

9.   
             
                 COMPREHENSIVE
                INCOME (LOSS)  

Accumulated
      other comprehensive loss consists of the following: 

In
      February 2004, we entered into an agreement with Fusion Capital Fund II,
      LLC ( Fusion Capital ) to sell up to $5 million of our common stock to Fusion
      Capital over a twenty (20) month period from the commencement date, which was
      May 6, 2004 (the  Stock Sale Agreement ). We had the right, which we exercised,
      to extend the term of the Stock Sale Agreement by six months. We also had the
      right to determine the timing and the amount of stock sold, if any, to Fusion
      Capital. In June 2006, we completed the $5 Stock Sale Agreement terminated
      upon reaching the $5 million threshold of common stock sold to Fusion
      Capital. 

Pursuant
      to the Stock Sale Agreement, we issued 53,138 shares of our common stock to
      Fusion Capital at inception for its initial commitment (the  Initial Shares ),
      and issued 35,425 additional commitment shares to Fusion Capital on a pro-rata
      basis as we sold the $5 million of stock (collectively, the  Commitment
      Shares ). 

Page
          58 

Table
          of Contents   

Cash
      received and common stock sold and issued pursuant to the Stock Sale Agreement
      were as follows: 

In
      consideration for assisting us in arranging the transaction with Fusion Capital,
      we paid our financial advisor a success fee of $250,000 (the  Success Fee, 
which was 5% of the total potential equity financing from Fusion Capital),
      and
      granted the advisor warrants to purchase 57,537 shares of our common stock
      (approximately 5% of 1,159,552 shares, the estimated maximum number of shares
      that could have been sold to Fusion Capital, excluding the Commitment Shares).
      The warrants were exercisable upon receipt, at an exercise price of $4.345
      per
      share (which was 110% of the $3.95 average closing price of our common stock
      for
      the 10-day trading period ended January 21, 2004, that was used to determine
      the
      number of Commitment Shares).   On
      January 20, 2005, our advisor elected a cashless exercise pursuant to the terms
      of the warrant, and we issued 37,171 shares of common stock to them, after
      withholding 20,366 shares tendered as payment for the exercise price of the
      warrant. We determined the number of shares to withhold based on a per share
      price equivalent to the average per share price on the exercise date, in
      accordance with the warrant. 

In
      addition to the cash Success Fee, we incurred other cash costs relating to
      the
      completion of the Stock Sale Agreement, including professional fees, listing
      fees and due diligence costs. We also incurred noncash costs for the estimated
      fair value of the Initial Shares ($316,171), and the warrants issued to our
      financial advisor ($236,465). We capitalized all of the cash and noncash costs,
      aggregating $1,008,204 (including $45,645 incurred in 2005), as deferred
      financing costs, and amortized the asset by charging the balance against capital
      in excess of par value on a pro-rata basis as we sold shares to Fusion Capital,
      based upon the ratio of the proceeds received compared to our estimate, which
      changed during the term, of the total proceeds to be received over the life
      of
      the Stock Sale Agreement. 

We
      had
      the option to enter into a second agreement with Fusion Capital for the sale
      of
      an additional $5 million of common stock on the same terms and conditions as
      the
      Stock Sale Agreement, but we did not exercise our option. 

Receivables
      consist of the following: 

Page
          59 

Table
          of Contents   

12.   
               
                   PROPERTY
                  AND EQUIPMENT, NET  

Property
      and equipment, net, consist   of
      the
      following  : 

Depreciation
      expense was $27,662, $19,449, and $20,144, in 2006, 2005, and 2004,
      respectively. The increase in equipment and furnishings in 2006 was due to
      deposits on furniture for our new office, and equipment purchased for new
      personnel. 

13.   
             
                 EQUITY
                SECURITIES AND OTHER
                INVESTMENTS  

The
      Palatin and Clinuvel common stock we hold are categorized as available-for-sale
      and carried at fair value. The   Palatin
      shares are classified in current assets while the Clinuvel shares are classified
      in noncurrent assets. The fair value of e  quity
      securities and other investments consists of the following: 

Palatin
      shares include shares held on behalf of our Client. For a description of
      Palatin, see Note 3. For a description of Clinuvel and MelanoTan, see Note
      5.
      MelanoTan has no operations and its shares have limited value. 

In
      prior
      years, we acquired a total of 3,129,509 shares of NTRU common stock (and certain
      preferred stock that later was redeemed), in exchange for cash and a reduction
      in our future royalty percentage on sales of NTRU s products. NTRU is a
      privately held company that sells encryption software for security purposes,
      principally in wireless markets. There is no active public market for NTRU
      shares. Although we wrote down the value of NTRU in prior years, we continue
      to
      own the shares, and one of our directors currently participates on NTRU s Board
      of Directors. 

Page
          60 

Table
          of Contents   

14.   
               
                   INTANGIBLE
                  ASSETS ACQUIRED, NET  

Intangible
      assets acquired, net, consist of the following: 

The
      weighted average life of the remaining Technologies was 1.0 years and 2.3 years,
      respectively, at July 31, 2006 and 2005. In 2004, we recorded an impairment
      charge of $51,978 in personnel and other direct expenses relating to revenues,
      since certain of our acquired licenses were not producing revenues, and we
      did
      not expect them to generate revenues in the future. 

Amortization
      expense was $19,097, $13,579, and $38,594, in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
      We expect amortization expense to be approximately $19,500 in fiscal year
      2007. 

15.   
             
                 ACCRUED
                EXPENSES AND OTHER
                LIABILITIES  

Accrued
      expenses and other liabilities consist of the following: 

The
      decrease in accrued compensation is due to the payment in 2006 of bonus and
      commission accruals outstanding at the end of 2005. 

16.   
             
                 SHAREHOLDERS 
                INTEREST AND STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
                PLANS  

Preferred
      Stock  

At
      our
      option, we may redeem our preferred stock at its par value at any time.
      Dividends on the preferred stock are non-cumulative. The preferred stock is
      not
      registered to be publicly traded. 

Page
          61 

Table
          of Contents   

Employee
      Stock Option Plans  

Pursuant
      to our 1997 Employees  Stock Option Plan, as amended (the  1997 Option Plan ),
      we may grant to employees either incentive stock options or nonqualified stock
      options (as defined by the Internal Revenue Service).   The
      stock
      options must be granted at exercise prices not less than 100% of the fair market
      value of our common stock at the grant date. The maximum life of stock options
      granted under this plan is ten years from the grant date. The Compensation
      Committee or the Board of Directors determines vesting provisions when stock
      options are granted, and stock options granted generally vest over three or
      four
      years.   No
      options may be granted under this plan after September 30, 2007.  

The
      following information relates to the 1997 Option Plan: 

Prior
      to
      the 1997 Option Plan, we had a stock option plan that expired on December 31,
      2000, after which date no option could be granted under the plan. Pursuant
      to
      this plan both incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options were
      granted to key employees. Incentive stock options could be granted at an
      exercise price not less than the fair market value of our common stock on the
      grant date. Nonqualified stock options could be granted at an exercise price
      not
      less than 85% of the fair market value of the common stock on the grant date.
      Options generally vested over a period of up to three years after the grant
      date
      and expire ten years after the grant date if not terminated earlier. The
      following information relates to this stock option plan: 

2000
      Directors Stock Option Plan  

We
      also
      have a Directors Stock Option Plan (the  Directors Option Plan ), under which we
      grant each non-employee director 10,000 fully vested, nonqualified common stock
      options when the director first is elected as a director, and 10,000 more common
      stock options on the first business day of January thereafter, as long as the
      individual is a director. All such stock options are granted at an option price
      not less than 100% of the fair market value of the common stock at the grant
      date. The maximum life of options granted under this plan is ten years from
      the
      grant date. No options may be granted after January 1, 2010. In 2006, 50,000
      stock options were granted pursuant to this plan, and 10,000 stock options
      expired. In 2005, 60,000, stock options were granted pursuant to this plan.

The
      following information relates to the 2000 Directors Stock Option
      Plan: 

Page
          62 

Table
          of Contents   

Summary
      of Common Stock Options  

Pursuant
      to FAS 123R, in 2006 we recognized $254,548 of noncash compensation expense
      (included in personnel and other direct expenses relating to revenues), from
      stock options granted to employees in the current year and prior years, and
      vesting during 2006. The stock options granted during the year were outstanding
      only a portion of the year, and thus the compensation expense recognized was
      only for the portion of the year that they were outstanding. As of July 31,
      2006, there was $565,256 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
      outstanding non-vested stock options granted under the 1997 Option Plan. This
      cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.2 years.
      We also recognized $133,981 of noncash compensation expense (included in
  general
      and administrative expenses  )
      from
      stock options granted to directors pursuant to the Directors Option Plan. Since
      these stock options are fully vested upon grant, the full fair value of the
      stock options is recorded as expense at the date of grant. 

In
      2006
      and 2005, we recorded noncash charges of $9,887 and $97,750, respectively,
      as a
      result of modifying the terms of certain stock options previously granted to
      former employees  
      to
      extend the vesting and/or exercise terms of the awards  .
      In
      addition, in 2005 we recorded a noncash charge of $72,600 as a result of
      modifying the terms of certain stock options previously granted to a former
      director   to
      extend
      the exercise term of the awards  . 

In
      total
      for 2006, we recognized noncash expense of $398,416 related to stock options,
      of
      which $264,435 was included in   personnel
      and other direct expenses relating to revenues,  
      and
      $133,981 was included in general and administrative expenses. 

We
      estimated the fair value of each option on the grant date using a Black-Scholes
      option-pricing model with the following weighted average
      assumptions: 

(1) 

We
                have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since 1981, and
                we
                currently do not have any plans to pay or declare any cash dividends.
                Consequently, we used an expected dividend rate of zero for the
                valuations. 

(2) 

Estimated
                based on our historical experience. Volatility was based on historical
                experience over a period equivalent to the expected life in
                years. 

(3) 

Based
                on the U.S. Treasury constant maturity interest rate with a term
                consistent with the expected life of the options
                granted. 

Page
          63 

Table
          of Contents   

A
      summary
      of the status of all our common stock options as of July 31, 2006, 2005 and
      2004, and changes during the years then ended is presented below. 

The
      total
      intrinsic value of stock options exercised during 2006, 2005 and 2004, was
      $2,135, $2,959,902 and $32,960, respectively. Total proceeds from stock option
      exercises were $16,267, $1,687,817 and $26,958, in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. Generally, we issue new shares of common stock to satisfy stock
      option exercises. 

The
      following table summarizes information about all common stock options
      outstanding at July 31, 2006. 

Prior
      to
      the adoption of FAS 123R, in 2005 and 2004 we accounted for our share-based
      compensation plans under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion
      No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , and related interpretations.
      Since the exercise price of stock options granted pursuant to our stock option
      plans to employees and directors was at least equal to the market value of
      the
      underlying common stock on the grant date, we did not record any compensation
      expense for stock options granted in prior years. (We did record compensation
      expense related to modifications made to vested option awards previously
      granted.) 

Page
          64 

Table
          of Contents   

If
      compensation cost for our stock-based compensation plans had been determined
      based on the fair value method (estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing
      model) at the grant dates in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards
      Board Statement No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , our pro
      forma net income and earnings per share would have been as follows: 

(1) 

Compensation
                expense was reduced for forfeitures as they actually
                occurred. 

1996
      Directors  Stock Participation Plan  

Pursuant
      to the terms of our 1996 Directors  Stock Participation Plan, on the first
      business day of January of each year, we issue to each outside director who
      has
      been elected by a vote of our shareholders and has served at least one year
      as a
      director, the lesser of 2,500 shares of our common stock or a number of shares
      of common stock equal to $15,000 on the date such shares are issued. If an
      otherwise eligible director terminates as a director before the first business
      day of the year, we issue such director a number of shares equal to the
      proportion of the year served by that director. This plan expires on January
      2,
      2011. 

We
      issued
      12,500, 6,920, and 12,500 shares of common stock to eligible directors in 2006,
      2005 and 2004, respectively, and charged to expense $50,000, $75,000, and
      $31,250, in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, for the shares issued under
      this
      plan. The following information relates to the 1996 Directors  Stock
      Participation Plan: 

There
      was
      no significant impact on the calculation of net income (loss) per share for
      the
      years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, as a result of the issuance of shares
      to our directors. 

Page
          65 

Table
          of Contents   

We
      have
      an employee defined contribution plan qualified under section 401(k) of the
      Internal Revenue Code (the  Plan ), for all our employees who have attained the
      age of 21 and meet certain service requirements. The Plan has been in effect
      since January 1, 1997. Participation in the Plan is voluntary. Employees may
      defer compensation up to a specific dollar amount determined by the Internal
      Revenue Service for each calendar year. We do not make matching contributions,
      and employees are not allowed to invest in our stock under the
      Plan. 

We
      may
      make discretionary contributions to the Plan solely on the authorization of
      our
      directors, who may authorize a contribution of a dollar amount to be allocated
      to participants according to the provisions of the Plan, and payable in shares
      of our common stock valued as of the date the shares are contributed to the
      Plan. Our directors authorized and we expensed $125,000, $100,000, and $100,000
      in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, for such discretionary contributions,
      and
      we contributed the related shares of our common stock to the Plan. 

18.   
             
                 COMMITMENTS
                AND CONTINGENCIES  

Operating
      Leases  

We
      have
      our offices in Fairfield, Connecticut under a new lease that commenced on
      September 1, 2006, and expires on September 1, 2013. We have an option to renew
      this lease for an additional five years. 

At
      July
      31, 2006, future minimum rental payments required under operating leases with
      initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year, including
      the new office lease, were: 

Total
      rental expense for all operating leases was: 

On
      October 11, 2005, we entered into an amended and restated employment agreement,
      effective October 1, 2005, with Dr. Donald J. Freed, our President and Chief
      Executive Officer. Pursuant to the terms 

Page
          66 

Table
          of Contents   

of
      the
      agreement, Dr. Freed will receive a minimum annual base compensation of
      $325,000, subject to change upon approval of our Board of Directors, eligibility
      to participate in all employee benefit plans, including our incentive
      compensation plan, and is eligible, in the event of a termination of his
      employment, to receive the continuation of base compensation and benefits for
      a
      period of six months, or twelve months in the event of a change in control
      (as
      defined), subject to certain conditions. The agreement may be
      terminated  
      by
      either party at any time for any reason. 

On
      February 15, 2006, we entered into an employment agreement with Michael E.
      Kiley.   Pursuant
      to the terms of the agreement, Mr. Kiley will be   employed
      as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, receive an annual
      base
      compensation of $225,000,   subject
      to change upon approval of our Board of Directors,  
      eligibility to participate   in
      all
      employee benefit plans, including our incentive compensation plan, and is
      eligible, in the event of a termination of his employment, to receive the
      continuation of base compensation and benefits for a period of six months,
      or
      twelve months in the event of a change in control (as defined), subject to
      certain conditions. The agreement may be terminated  
      by
      either party at any time for any reason. On July 27, 2006, our Board of
      Directors appointed Mr. Kiley to the position of Executive Vice President and
      Chief Operating Officer. 

Contingencies
      - Litigation 

Fujitsu  

In
      December 2000, (coincident with filing a complaint with the United States
      International Trade Commission ( ITC ) that was withdrawn in 2001) the
      University of Illinois and CTT filed a complaint against Fujitsu Limited,
      Fujitsu General Limited, Fujitsu General America, Fujitsu Microelectronics,
      Inc.
      and Fujitsu Hitachi Plasma Display Ltd. (Fujitsu et al., collectively,
 Fujitsu ) in the United States District Court for the Central District of
      Illinois, seeking damages for past infringements and an injunction against
      future sales of plasma display panels alleged to infringe two U.S. patents
      held
      by our Client, the University of Illinois. The two patents cover energy recovery
      technology for flat plasma display panels. In May 2002, the District Court
      granted Fujitsu s motion to transfer this case to the Northern District of
      California. 

In
      September 2001, Fujitsu filed counterclaims against us and the University of
      Illinois in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware (which
      subsequently were dismissed and reinstituted in the Northern District of
      California). The counterclaims alleged, among other things, that we had
      misappropriated confidential information and trade secrets supplied by Fujitsu,
      and committed unfair competition in litigating the ITC action. 

Effective
      July 23, 2002, the University of Illinois agreed to take the lead in this
      litigation and assume the cost of new lead counsel. Before this agreement,
      we
      bore the entire cost of lead counsel in this litigation. In late 2002, we were
      dismissed as co-plaintiff from this litigation, but we retained our economic
      interest in any potential favorable outcome. 

On
      July
      1, 2004, the court granted summary judgment in favor of Fujitsu. The University
      of Illinois appealed the decision. On September 20, 2004, the judge entered
      a
      stipulated order staying certain issues, including the counterclaims, pending
      resolution of the University s appeal. 

On
      May 1,
      2006, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the  CAFC ) heard the
      University of Illinois  appeal of the summary judgment. On June 15, 2006, the
      CAFC ruled in favor of Fujitsu, effectively ending the case. The only claims
      in
      this matter still outstanding are Fujitsu s counterclaims against the University
      of Illinois and CTT. Fujitsu is proceeding with their counterclaims, in which
      they are claiming at least $5 million in damages plus punitive damages, costs
      and interest. We cannot 

Page
          67 

Table
          of Contents   

determine
      the timing or what, if any, the amount that our liability may be if the
      counterclaims are successful, or the amount of defense costs we might
      incur. 

Carolina
      Liquid Chemistries Corporation, et al.  

On
      August
      29, 2005, we filed a complaint against Carolina Liquid Chemistries Corporation
      ( Carolina Liquid ) in the United States District Court for the District of
      Colorado, alleging patent infringement of our patent covering homocysteine
      assays, and seeking monetary damages, punitive damages, attorneys  fees, court
      costs and other remuneration at the option of the court. Carolina Liquid was
      served on September 1, 2005. Subsequently, we amended our complaint to add
      as
      defendants Catch, Inc. ( Catch ) and the Diazyme Laboratories Division of
      General Atomics ( Diazyme ).   On
      September 6, 2006, Diazyme filed for declaratory judgment in the Southern
      District of California for a change in venue and a declaration of
      non-infringement and invalidity.   On
      September 12, 2006, the District Court in Colorado ruled that both Catch and
      Diazyme be added as defendants to the Carolina Liquid case. Further action
      in
      this case is pending. 

Employment
      matters - former President and Chief Executive Officer  

On
      August
      10, 2005, we received notice that John B. Nano, our former President and Chief
      Executive Officer ( CEO ) from June 2002 to June 2005, had commenced suit in the
      Superior Court in the Judicial District of Stamford, Connecticut seeking the
      pre-judgment remedy of attachment.   In
      his
      complaint, Mr. Nano sought to attach our bank accounts in the amount of $1.4
      million to preserve his ability to collect should he succeed on his claim that
      CTT had allegedly breached his employment contract because it denied him certain
      severance benefits when it terminated him on June 14, 2005.   Mr.
      Nano
      also claims, in the alternative, that CTT violated a draft but unexecuted and
      undelivered, separation agreement and general release which it sought to
      negotiate with him at the time of his departure.   Mr.
      Nano
      claims in his complaint that CTT   withdrew
      the proposed draft agreement after he communicated his acceptance to the
      Chairman of CTT s Board of Directors. We have  
      opposed
      Mr. Nano s application for a prejudgment remedy; and, have denied and are
      vigorously defending the allegations in the complaint. Hearings on the motion
      were held in November 2005. Further action on this motion is
      pending. 

On
      September 14, 2005, we announced that we had received notice that Mr. Nano
      also
      had filed a complaint with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
      ( OSHA ), alleging a violation by CTT of   Section
      806 of the Corporate and Criminal Fraud Accountability Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C.
      1514A  
      (the
 Sarbanes-Oxley Act ) in connection with the termination of his employment. We
      believe that the complaint was totally without merit, and filed an answer to
      the
      OSHA inquiry on October 3, 2005. On March 2, 2006, Mr. Nano notified OSHA that
      he was withdrawing his complaint, and reserved his right to file the action
      in
      U.S. District Court. 

On
      December 7, 2005, we filed a complaint against Mr. Nano in the Superior Court
      in
      the Judicial District of Stamford, Connecticut, for monetary and punitive
      damages, alleging breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, statutory theft
      of confidential information, and other claims, including a request for an
      injunction preventing Mr. Nano from competing with CTT with products and
      business contacts originally coming to Mr. Nano s attention through his
      employment at CTT. Further action on this matter is pending. 

On
      May
      26, 2006, Mr. Nano filed a complaint in the United States District Court of
      Connecticut, alleging that CTT violated   Section
      806 of the   Sarbanes-Oxley
      Act in connection with the termination of his employment. In his complaint,
      Mr.
      Nano seeks monetary damages, punitive damages, attorneys  fees, and costs and
      other remuneration at the option of the court. We believe that the complaint
      is
      totally without merit, and intend to defend it vigorously. 

Page
          68 

Table
          of Contents   

Legal
      fees incurred relating to these matters totaled $371,368 in 2006. We cannot
      predict the ultimate resolution of these matters, or the total amount of legal
      fees or other expenses that we will incur going forward relating to these
      matters. 

Palatin
      Technologies, Inc.  

On
      September 14, 2005, we filed a complaint in the Superior Court, Judicial
      District of Fairfield at Bridgeport, Connecticut, against Palatin, in which
      we
      allege breach of contract by Palatin of a mediated settlement agreement we
      signed with Palatin on June 17, 2005 (the  Mediated Settlement ), relating to a
      license between Palatin and us   for
      Palatin s exclusive use of our Technology in developing their experimental
      therapeutic treatment for male and female sexual dysfunction   (the
       License ). In our complaint we are seeking monetary damages, interest,
      attorneys  fees, court costs, punitive damages, and other remuneration at the
      option of the court. On November 22, 2005, Palatin filed a motion for summary
      judgment seeking a dismissal of our complaint and monetary damages, including
      reimbursement of their legal fees, as sanctions against us for filing the
      original complaint (this motion was denied on July 12, 2006). On February 3,
      2006, we filed a motion to enlarge the scope of our original complaint, alleging
      fraudulent behavior by Palatin in their actions in negotiating the Mediated
      Settlement, as we believe that Palatin was aware that they were unable to issue
      fully unrestricted shares of their common stock at the time that they agreed
      to
      do so as part of the Mediated Settlement, but agreed to do so
      anyway. 

Pursuant
      to the terms of the License, we are entitled to receive 20% of any sublicense
      fee that Palatin receives. On August 13, 2004, Palatin announced that they
      had
      granted a co-exclusive license to King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( King ), included
      in a Collaborative Development and Marketing Agreement between Palatin and
      King.
      On August 18, 2004, Palatin announced that they had received an initial $20
      million from King, but did not submit any funds to us, which caused us to notify
      Palatin that they were in breach, and later demand arbitration for the breach.
      We agreed first to try to mediate the dispute with Palatin, and o  n
      June
      17, 2005, we signed the Mediated Settlement agreement with Palatin.   Pursuant
      to the   Mediated
      Settlement  ,
      Palatin
      made a cash payment to us of $1,700,000, and further agreed to issue to us
      promptly 170,000 shares of Palatin unrestricted common stock. The settlement
      we
      received was for both us and our Clients. 

On
      July
      5, 2005, Palatin issued restricted shares to us that were not registered for
      resale, which was not in accordance with the   Mediated
      Settlement  ,
      as we
      were   restricted
      from selling, transferring or otherwise disposing of the shares.   Since
      Palatin failed to issue us unrestricted shares and honor the   Mediated
      Settlement  ,
      we
      filed the complaint against them seeking, at a minimum, unrestricted shares
      and
      reimbursement of costs that we incurred as a result of Palatin s breach of the
      settlement. On October 13, 2005, Palatin filed a registration statement
      (prospectus) with the SEC to register the restricted shares for sale, and we
      later determined that we could trade the shares even though the legend on the
      share certificate is still in place. We continued to pursue the complaint filed
      against Palatin to recover our costs and preserve our rights under the
      License. 

We
      believe that the Mediated Settlement referred only to the disposition of the
      specific $20 million sublicensing fee received by Palatin from King, and did
      not
      pertain to any future milestone payments, or to any other future payments to
      be
      made by King to Palatin under their agreement. Palatin has made statements
      in
      their public filings that the June 17, 2005 Mediated Settlement released them
      from any other obligations to us relating to any other future payments received
      from King. In addition, Palatin has made other public filings in which they
      stated that they did not believe that any license from us was needed to
      commercialize their sexual dysfunction therapeutic product. We disagree with
      these and any 

Page
          69 

Table
          of Contents   

other
      similar such statements. Palatin also has received additional amounts from
      King
      since their receipt of the initial $20 million payment; however, they have
      refused to acknowledge that they owe us any additional amounts pursuant to
      the
      License. Thus, as a result of Palatin s additional alleged breaches of the
      license and tortious acts, on June 6, 2006, we demanded arbitration, as required
      by the License, to settle the new issues. On July 20, 2006, we filed our claims
      with the American Arbitration Association. 

Further
      action in both the court case and the arbitration is pending. 

Employment
      matters - other  

On
      September 29, 2006, we received a demand letter from an attorney representing
      two of our officers (neither of whom is our Chief Executive, Operating or
      Financial Officer), demanding approximately $300,000 in total for commission
      payments alleged to be due them for 2006 under our prior annual incentive
      compensation plan, which was terminated in November 2005. These individuals
      received commission payments in 2005 related to new homocysteine licenses
      granted in 2005, and are claiming that the company is obligated, and they were
      promised that the payments would continue for a period of two (2) years
      thereafter. It also is claimed in the letter that these individuals anticipate
      that they would be entitled to at least an aggregate additional $350,000 in
      commission payments in 2007. We are investigating this matter, but expect
      to vigorously defend any litigation that may arise from it. Pending completion
      of the investigation, we have put these individuals on administrative leave
      with
      pay. We cannot estimate the amount of costs we may incur relating to this
      matter, but the costs may be significant, although a portion of the costs may
      be
      covered by insurance. 

Securities
      and Exchange Commission  

On
      August
      11, 2004, the   SEC  
      filed a
      civil suit in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut,
      naming Competitive Technologies, Inc., our former President and CEO in 2001,
      and
      six individual brokers, alleging that from at least July 1998 to June 2001,
      the
      defendants were involved in a scheme to manipulate the price of our stock.
      The
      case relates to our 1998 stock repurchase program under which we repurchased
      shares of our common stock from time to time during the period from October
      28,
      1998 to March 22, 2001. CTT was named as a defendant in the suit due to the
      alleged conduct of our former CEO, whose conduct in connection with the stock
      repurchase program was imputed to CTT as a matter of law. Relating to CTT,
      the
      SEC seeks a permanent injunction prohibiting us from further violations of
      the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and a civil penalty pursuant to Section
      21(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (this section provides for
      maximum penalties of $550,000 for a corporate entity and $110,000 per
      individual). On September 24, 2004, we responded to this civil suit, and filed
      a
      motion to dismiss the suit. On October 15, 2004, the SEC filed a motion opposing
      our motion to dismiss the suit. On July 21, 2005, our motion to dismiss the
      suit
      was denied. On April 10, 2006, we filed a separate motion for summary judgment
      to dismiss the case, and on June 15, 2006, the SEC filed a motion opposing
      our
      motion for summary judgment. Further action in this case is pending. If our
      motion for summary judgment is not successful, we expect that the case will
      go
      to trial sometime in 2007. 

This
      matter originally began in May 2001, when we received a subpoena from the SEC
      seeking certain documents in connection with an SEC private investigation.
      In
      June 2003, the SEC sent written  Wells Notices  to us, our then Executive Vice
      President and Chief Financial Officer, and two of our directors. The  Wells
      Notices  indicated that the staff intended to recommend that the SEC bring a
      civil action against us and the individuals in the matter of trading in our
      stock. Neither of our directors was named in the SEC s subsequent civil
      suit. 

We
      previously field suit against our directors and officers insurance carrier
      to
      obtain reimbursement of our costs to defend us and our directors and officers.
      In the prior year (October 2004) our insurance carrier paid us $167,500 to
      reimburse us for prior costs incurred, and acknowledged that the deductible
      under our insurance policy had been satisfied relating to the SEC s civil suit.
      We recorded the settlement as a reduction 

Page
          70 

Table
          of Contents   

of
      expense in 2005. As a result, defense costs incurred in 2005 and thereafter
      are
      being covered by our directors and officers insurance carrier, and we have
      not
      incurred any significant costs related to this matter since 2004. However,
      we
      cannot be certain that all future costs, including potential fines and
      penalties, will be covered by our insurance carrier. 

Employment
      matters - other former employees  

On
      February 2, 2005, OSHA issued a finding that there was probable cause to believe
      that CTT had violated Section 806 of the Sarbanes-  Oxley
      Act  
      by
      terminating Wil Jacques and Scott Bechtel in June 2003. Based on the finding,
      OSHA ordered that the complainants be reinstated and that CTT pay damages
      totaling approximately $827,000. Jacques and Bechtel contended that they were
      improperly terminated for raising concerns about financial reporting. We
      contended that Jacques and Bechtel did not raise protected concerns and were
      terminated for lawful, non-discriminatory reasons, that OSHA failed to fairly
      investigate and consider all relevant facts, that the conclusions drawn by
      OSHA
      were legally erroneous, and that we were not liable to the complainants for
      any amount. 

The
      OSHA
      finding did not constitute a final agency order. In accordance with law and
      regulation, in February 2005, we filed timely objections and requested a
   de
      novo   
      hearing
      before an Administrative Law Judge ( ALJ ) of the U.S. Department of Labor
      ( DOL ). The hearing was held in May 2005. On May 18, 2005, CTT and plaintiff
      Jacques entered into a memorandum of understanding, which later was approved
      by
      the ALJ, whereby all claims against CTT by Jacques were resolved. Pursuant
      to
      the settlement with Jacques, CTT paid plaintiff Jacques a lump sum payment
      and
      reimbursement for certain reasonable legal fees, and agreed to pay him certain
      minimum consulting fees in 2006 and 2007. The lump sum payment and legal fee
      reimbursement were recorded in 2005. The consulting fees are not significant,
      and are recorded as they are paid. 

On
      October 6, 2005, the ALJ s findings were issued, in which all of the claims of
      Mr. Bechtel were dismissed, and further, that the issue of damages was not
      relevant since the plaintiff failed to carry his burden of proof. The plaintiff
      filed an appeal with the DOL on October 19, 2005. The motion for appeal was
      granted, and it is still outstanding. In addition, Mr. Bechtel filed a separate
      complaint with OSHA alleging that CTT violated   Section
        806
      of
      the   Sarbanes-Oxley
      Act in connection with his reinstatement. We filed a response and a request
      for
      dismissal of this complaint on November 16, 2005. On November 23, 2005, this
      complaint was dismissed by OSHA. We cannot predict the total amount of legal
      fees or other expenses that we will incur going forward relating to this matter.
      Legal fees incurred since the inception of this matter through July 31, 2006,
      were $893,743, including $111,817 incurred in 2006. After the ALJ s findings
      were issued, Mr. Bechtel left CTT on his own initiative. 

Separate
      from the hearing before the ALJ, Mr. Bechtel sought to have the reinstatement
      order upheld by the United States District Court, District of Connecticut (the
       District Court ). The reinstatement order would have required reinstatement as
      of February 8, 2005. CTT opposed Mr. Bechtel s request. On May 13, 2005, the
      District Court granted Bechtel and the DOL a preliminary injunction requiring
      us
      to comply with the DOL reinstatement order and directed CTT to reinstate Mr.
      Bechtel. On May 16, 2005, CTT filed for a reconsideration and/or modification
      of
      the May 13, 2005 order. On May 23, 2005, the District Court granted CTT s motion
      for reconsideration, but did not change the ruling requiring reinstatement.
      The
      DOL joined with Mr. Bechtel and requested a show cause hearing before the
      District Court as to why CTT should not be held in contempt of court for not
      complying immediately with the reinstatement order. On July 27, 2005, a show
      cause hearing was held at the District Court. CTT then reinstated plaintiff
      Bechtel effective back to February 8, 2005, and promptly appealed the District
      Court s earlier ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit, sitting
      in New York. On May 1, 2006, the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in favor
      of
      CTT, finding that the District Court lacked the ability to enforce the
      reinstatement, and eliminating the possibility of contempt charges 

Page
          71 

Table
          of Contents   

being
      levied against CTT. Since we had previously reinstated Mr. Bechtel, and he
      had
      left CTT of his own volition after the ruling by the ALJ in the underlying
      case,
      the 2nd Circuit ruling had no financial impact on us. This ruling was not
      appealed and it became final. 

Laboratory
      Corporation of America Holdings d/b/a LabCorp  

On
      June
      22, 2006, the Supreme Court ruled that the writ of certiorari previously
      granted to LabCorp, had been improvidently granted, thus dismissing the
      writ and ending LabCorp s appeal of this homocysteine assay infringement case
      originally filed on May 4, 1999 (described below)   in
      the
      United States District Court for the District of Colorado  .
      (A writ
      of certiorari is a petition requesting the Court to hear an appeal.) On
      September 21, 2006, the district court ruled on the remaining outstanding
      motions and claims related to this case, and as result of the ruling, the case
      effectively ended with no further awards granted. 

The
      original case was filed against LabCorp in 1999 by   Metabolite
      Laboratories, Inc. ( MLI ) and us (collectively, the  Plaintiffs )   alleging,
      in part, breach of contract and patent infringement, and that LabCorp owed
      the
      Plaintiffs royalties for homocysteine assays performed beginning in the summer
      of 1998 using methods falling within the claims of a patent we own. (We licensed
      the patent on a non-exclusive basis to MLI and MLI sublicensed it to LabCorp.)
      In November 2001 a jury confirmed the validity of our patent rights, found
      that
      LabCorp had willfully infringed our patent and breached their sublicense
      contract, and awarded damages to the Plaintiffs. In an amended judgment issued
      in November 2002, the court awarded CTT approximately $1,019,000 in damages,
      $1,019,000 in enhanced (punitive) damages, $560,000 in attorneys  fees, and
      $132,000 in prejudgment interest, and had issued a permanent injunction barring
      LabCorp from performing future homocysteine assays. The injunction against
      performing tests was stayed by the court pursuant to a stipulated court order
      that expired in April 2005 (pursuant to the stipulated order LabCorp was allowed
      to perform assays in exchange for paying a royalty). LabCorp appealed the
      judgment, and o  n
      August
      5, 2004, the CAFC denied LabCorp s appeal for a rehearing or a rehearing en banc
      (rehearing by the full CAFC). As a result of this decision, on August 16, 2004,
      the Plaintiffs received approximately $6.7 million, our share of which was
      $920,552, and we recorded $815, 492 in royalty legal awards and $105,060 in
      interest income during 2005. The payment did not include attorneys  fees or
      court costs previously awarded to the Plaintiffs that were under appeal with
      the
      court. On January 24, 2005, the CAFC issued a summary dismissal of LabCorp s
      appeal of the court s award of attorneys  fees and court costs from the original
      case. Subsequently, we received payment from LabCorp for the attorneys  fees and
      court costs. Our share of the payment was $231,056, and we recorded $221,121
      in
      royalty legal awards and $9,935 in interest income, also in 2005. After this
      decision, on November 3, 2004, LabCorp had appealed the case to the Supreme
      Court. 

We
      did
      not receive any awards from this case in 2006. As a result of this decision,
      the
      validity of our homocysteine patent was upheld. 

Other  

On
      May
      17, 2006, we filed a complaint against Dr. Arnold H. Pross in the New York
      Supreme Court in Nassau County, alleging the posting of defamatory statements
      against our current President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as CTT,
      on
      public message boards. On July 20, 2006, Dr. Pross filed a motion to dismiss
      our
      complaint based upon a lack of personal jurisdiction. On October 13, 2006,
      we
      filed a motion opposing Dr. Pross  motion. Further action in this case is
      pending the resolution of the outstanding motions. 

We
      also
      are a party to other legal actions and proceedings for which we cannot predict
      the final outcomes. Since we are unable to estimate the legal expenses or the
      loss we may incur or the possible 

Page
          72 

Table
          of Contents   

damages
      we may recover in these actions, if any, we have not recorded any potential
      judgment proceeds in our financial statements to date. We record expenses in
      connection with these actions as they are incurred. 

We
      believe that we carry adequate liability insurance, directors and officers
      insurance, casualty insurance (for owned or leased tangible assets), and other
      insurance as needed to cover us against potential and actual claims and lawsuits
      that occur in the ordinary course of our business. However, an unfavorable
      resolution of any or all matters, and/or our incurrence of significant legal
      fees and other costs to defend or prosecute any of these actions and proceedings
      may, depending on the amount and timing, have a material adverse effect on
      our
      consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in a
      particular period. 

Contingencies
      - Revenue based  

As
      of
      July 31, 2006, CTT and VVI have obligations, contingent upon receipt of certain
      revenues, to repay up to $199,006 and $224,127, respectively, from grant funding
      received in 1994 and 1995. CTT also is obligated to pay at the rate of 7.5%
      of
      its revenues, if any, from transferring rights to certain inventions supported
      by the grant funds. VVI is obligated to pay at rates of 1.5% of its net sales
      of
      supported products or 15% of its revenues from licensing supported products,
      if
      any. We recognize these obligations only if we receive revenues related to
      the
      grant funds. No significant obligations were recognized in 2006 or 2005 since
      the applicable revenues received were not significant. 

Currently,
      we engage independent consultants who provide us with business development
      and
      evaluation services under contracts that are cancelable upon written notice.
      Certain of these contracts include contingencies for potential payments to
      the
      consultant if we earn revenues as a result of the efforts of the consultant.
      For
      the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we neither accrued nor paid
      incentive compensation under such contracts. 

Page
          73 

Table
          of Contents   

19.   
             
                 SELECTED
                QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
                (unaudited)  

(1) 

Operating
                income (loss) is defined herein as revenues less expenses, excluding
                interest income, net. Operating income (loss) excludes income
                taxes. 

Page
          74 

Table
          of Contents   

ITEM
                9.    

CHANGES
                IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
                DISCLOSURE   

None. 

ITEM
                9A.    

CONTROLS
                AND PROCEDURES   

(a)  
             
                 Evaluation
                of disclosure controls and
                procedures  

Our
      management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
      evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
      controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
      15d-15(e)) as of July 31, 2006. Our disclosure controls and procedures are
      designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed
      under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized,
      and reported as specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and
      forms. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
      Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective
      as
      of July 31, 2006. 

(b) 

Evaluation
                of internal controls over financial
                reporting  

Not
      applicable. 

(c)  
             
                 Change
                in Internal Controls  

There
      were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the
      quarter ended July 31, 2006, that have materially affected, or are reasonably
      likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
      reporting. 

ITEM
              9B.     
             
                  OTHER
                INFORMATION   

None. 

PART
      III   

Pursuant
      to General Instruction G(3), the information called for by Part III, except
      as
      otherwise indicated, is incorporated by reference, to the extent required,
      from
      the registrant s definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of
      stockholders scheduled to be held on Tuesday, January 9, 2006 (the  Proxy
      Statement ), to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not
      later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form
      10-K. 

ITEM
              10.     
             
                  DIRECTORS
                AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
                REGISTRANT   

Other
      than information with respect to our executive officers, which is set forth
      in
      Item 4A of Part I of this Form 10-K, the information set forth under the
      captions  Election of Directors,   Section 16(A) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
      Compliance,  and the sub-caption  Audit Committee  under  Board Meetings and
      Committees  in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
      reference. 

The
      information regarding a code of ethics is incorporated herein by reference
      to
      Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the sub-caption  Code of Ethics.  

Page
          75 

Table
          of Contents   

ITEM
                11.     
               
                    EXECUTIVE
                  COMPENSATION   

The
      information set forth under the captions  Executive Compensation  and  Director
      Compensation  in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
      reference. 

ITEM
              12.     
             
                  SECURITY
                OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
                MANAGEMENT   

The
      information set forth under the captions  Beneficial Ownership of Shares  and
 Equity Compensation Plan Information  in the Proxy Statement is incorporated
      herein by reference. 

ITEM
              13.     
             
                  CERTAIN
                RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
                TRANSACTIONS   

The
      information set forth under the caption  Certain Transactions  in the Proxy
      Statement is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM
              14.     
             
                  PRINCIPAL
                ACCOUNTING FEES AND
                SERVICES   

The
      information set forth under the caption  Accounting Fees and Services  in the
      Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. 

PART
      IV   

ITEM
              15.     
             
                  EXHIBITS
                AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
                SCHEDULES   

(a)  
             
                List
                of financial statements and
                schedules. 

Competitive
      Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiaries: 

Report
      of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Consolidated
      Balance Sheets as of July 31, 2006 and 2005 

Consolidated
      Statements of Operations for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and
      2004 

Consolidated
      Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Interest for the years   ended
      July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and
      2004 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements 

All
      financial statement schedules have been omitted because the information is
      not
      present or is not present in sufficient amounts to require submission of the
      schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial
      statements or the notes thereto. 

(b) 

List
                of exhibits: See Exhibit Index immediately preceding
                exhibits. 

Page
          76 

Table
          of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
      by
      the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

COMPETITIVE
      TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

      (the
      registrant) 

By: 
        /s/
      Dr.
      D. J. Freed  

Dr.
      D. J.
      Freed 

      President
      and Chief Executive   Officer,
      Director 

      and
        Authorized
      Signer 

Date:
      October 30, 2006 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
      been
      signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
      capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Name 

Title 

) 

Date 

) 

/s/
                Richard E. Carver 

Director 

) 

Richard
              E. Carver  

) 

) 

/s/
                Michael D. Davidson 

Senior
                Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and 

) 

Michael
              D. Davidson  
               
              Principal
              Accounting Officer  
             
                ) 

) 

/s/
                George W. Dunbar, Jr. 

Director 

) 

George
              W. Dunbar, Jr.  

) 

) 

/s/
                Dr. D. J. Freed 

President,
                Chief Executive Officer and Director 

) 

October
                30, 2006 

Dr.
              D. J. Freed  

) 

) 

/s/
                Maria-Luisa Maccecchini 

Director 

) 

Maria-Luisa
              Maccecchini  

) 

) 

/s/
                Charles J. Philippin 

Director 

) 

Charles
              J. Philippin  

) 

) 

/s/
                John M. Sabin 

Director 

) 

John
              M. Sabin  

) 

Page
          77 

Table
          of Contents   

EXHIBIT
      INDEX   

Exhibit  

No.   

Description  

3.1  
             
                Unofficial
                restated certificate of incorporation of the registrant as amended
                to date
                filed (on April 1, 1998) as Exhibit 4.1 to registrant s Registration
                Statement on Form S-8, File Number 333-49095 and hereby incorporated
                by
                reference. 

Page
          78 

Table
          of Contents   

10.17^  
             
                Amendment
                to Lease made July 20, 2006 by and between 1375 Kings Highway/777
                Commerce
                Drive Associates, LLC, and 14 Mamaroneck Avenue Reinvestment Associates,
                LLC, and Competitive Technologies, Inc., and hereby incorporated
                by
                reference. 

21^  
             
                Subsidiaries
                of registrant. 

Page
          79 

Table
          of Contents   

*  
             
                Management
                Contract or Compensatory Plan 

^  
             
                Filed
                herewith 

+  
             
                Furnished
                herewith 

Page
        80 

<EX-10.17>
 2
 v055147_ex10-17.htm

Unassociated Document

Exhibit
      10.17 

AMENDMENT
      TO LEASE   

Amendment
      to Lease ( Agreement ) made this _[20   th   ]_
      day of
      July, 2006, by and between 1375 KINGS HIGHWAY/777 COMMERCE DRIVE ASSOCIATES,
      LLC
      and 14 MAMARONECK AVENUE REINVESTMENT ASSOCIATES, LLC ( Landlord ), each a
      Connecticut limited liability company with offices at c/o Celestial Capital
      Group, Inc., 10 East 40   th   
      Street,
      New York, NY 10016 and COMPETITIVE TECHNOLOGIES, INC. ( Tenant ), with offices
      1960 Bronson Road, Fairfield, Connecticut 06824. 

RECITALS  

WHEREAS,
      Landlord and Tenant entered into a lease ( Lease ) dated April 28, 2006 demising
      11,025 rentable square feet in the building known as 777 Commerce Drive,
      Fairfield, Connecticut ( Demised Premises  and 

WHEREAS,
      the Term of the Lease has not yet commenced; and 

WHEREAS,
      the parties have agreed to reduce the number of rentable square feet of the
        Demised
      Premises set forth in the Lease Summary from 11,025 RSF to10,939 RSF, and to
      amend the Lease accordingly.  

NOW,
      THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein and other
      good and valuable consideration, the parties agree as follows: 

1.
       Lease Summary and Schedule  A  .  A new Lease Summary and Schedule  A 
(Rent Schedule) in the form attached hereto shall replace the existing
      Lease
      Summary and Schedule  A  to the Lease. The  Rentable Square Feet ,  Base Rent ,
 Security Deposit ,  Tenant s Share,  and  Tenant s Tax Share  have been changed
      in the new Lease Summary to reflect the reduction of the rentable square footage
      of the Demised Premises from 11,025 RSF to 10,939 RSF. In addition, the
      estimated Commencement Date has been changed from July 1, 2006 to August 15,
      2006. All other terms in the Lease Summary remain the same. Schedule  A  has
      been changed in its entirety to reflect the new Annual Base Rent and Monthly
      Installment of Base Rent by reason of the reduction in the rentable square
      footage of the Demised Premises. 

2.
           Exhibit
         A  (Plan of Demised Premises).   
        A new
        Exhibit  A  (Plan of Demised Premises) in the form attached hereto shall replace
        the existing Exhibit  A  (Plan of Demised Premises) to the Lease.

3.
         Credit
      for Security Deposit and First Months  Rent   
      . Upon
      execution of the Lease,   Tenant
      paid Landlord $41,343.84, representing the Security Deposit due under the Lease,
      and   $20,671.92,
      representing the first months  installment of Base Rent due under the Lease.
      Landlord shall give Tenant a credit against the second months  installment of
      Base Rent due under the Lease in the amount of $483.00, representing the
      difference between the Security Deposit ($322.50) and first months  Base Rent
      ($161.25) previously paid by Tenant upon Lease execution and the amount due
      under the Lease as amended by this Agreement. 

4.
         Miscellaneous   .
      Except
      as amended by this Agreement, the parties confirm and ratify all the terms,
      covenants and conditions of the Lease. Unless expressly set forth to the
      contrary or modified by this Agreement, all defined terms shall have the
      meanings ascribed to them under the Lease. If there is a conflict between the
      provisions of the Lease and this Agreement, the  

[this
      portion of the page intentionally left blank]  

provisions
      of this Agreement shall control. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall
      inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors
      and/or permitted assigns.  

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF   ,
      the
      parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above
      written. 

LANDLORD    

1375 KINGS HIGHWAY/777   

14 MAMARONECK AVENUE   

COMMERCE DRIVE ASSOCIATES,
              LLC   

REINVESTMENT
              ASSOCIATES, LLC  

By:
              Celestial Real
              Estate Fund II, LLC,   

By: 14 Mamaroneck Avenue,
              LLC,   

Its
                Sole Member  

Its Sole Member   

By: Celestial Capital Management II,
              Inc.,   

Its
                Manager 

By:
              /s/  Mark Ellman  

By:
                 /s/ Mark Ellman

MARK
              ELLMAN, Manager  

MARK
              ELLMAN, President  

TENANT   : 

COMPETITIVE
                TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

By:
              /s/  D. J. Freed, Ph.D.   

Name:
              D.J. Freed, Ph.D   

Title:
              President and CEO  

LEASE
      SUMMARY  

Date
                of Lease:  

Tenant:  

Competitive
                Technologies, Inc.  

Address:  

777
                Commerce Drive  

Fairfield,
                CT 06825  

Taxpayer
                Identification Number:  

36-2664428  

Suite
                No.:  

100  

Rentable
                Square Feet:  

10,939
                R.S.F.  

Use
                (Article 6):  

General
                and executive offices for Tenant s technology transfer and licensing
                business.  

Term
                (Article 2):  

Seven
                (7) years  

Commencement
                Date (Article 2):  

Upon
                substantial completion of Landlord s Work, presently estimated as August
                15, 2006.  

Rent
                Commencement Date (Article 3):  

Same
                as Commencement Date, subject to Section 2.05.  

Base
                Rent:  

Electric
                (Article 5):  

Consumption
                measured by submeter or direct meter and payable by Tenant on the
                terms
                set forth in Section 5.01 or Section 5.02.  

Security
                Deposit (Article 30):  

$41,021.34
                (two months  Base Rent)  

Tenant s
                Share (Article 4):  

Approximately
                18.15% (or as later adjusted)  

Tenant s
                Tax Share (Article 4):  

Approximately
                18.15% (or as later adjusted)  

Base
                Year for Real Estate Taxes (Article 4):  

July
                1, 2006 - June 30, 2007 (Original Term)  

July
                1, 2013 - June 30, 2014 (Renewal Term)  

Base
                Year for Operating Expenses (Article 4):  

Calendar
                year 2006 (Original Term)  

Calendar
                year 2014 (Renewal Term)  

Renewal
                Option (Article 2):  

One
                five (5) year Renewal Term upon nine (9) months prior written notice
                and
                on the terms set forth in Section 2.06.  

Additional
                Tenant Concession (Article 3):  

Landlord
                shall pay the remainder of Tenant s rent due under its lease of 1960
                Bronson Road, Fairfield, CT on the terms set forth in Section
                3.02.  

Early
                Termination Option (Article 2):  

Tenant
                shall have the right to terminate the Lease at the end of the fifth
                Lease
                Year on the terms set forth in Section 2.07.  

Right
                of Expansion (Article 33):  

Tenant
                has an option to lease additional space on the first floor of the
                Building
                on the terms set forth in Section 33.01.  

Parking:  

Ten
                (10) reserved spaces in addition to the non-exclusive use of the
                Building s parking area on the terms set forth in Section
                6.03.  

Guarantor:  

None  

Broker:  

Albert
                B. Ashforth, Inc. and HK Group  

SCHEDULE
       A   

RENT
      SCHEDULE  

</EX-10.17>

<EX-21>
 3
 v055147_ex21.htm

Unassociated Document

Exhibit
      21 

Subsidiaries
      of Competitive Technologies, Inc.  

State/Country
                of  

Name
                of Subsidiary 

Incorporation/Organization 

CTT
                Trading Company, LLC 

Connecticut 

Vector
                Vision, Inc. 

Delaware 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 v055147_ex23-1.htm

Unassociated Document

Exhibit
      23.1 

Consent
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

Competitive
      Technologies, Inc. 

      Fairfield,
      Connecticut 

We
      hereby
      consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on
      Form
      S-1 (Registration No. 333-113751), Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-113751) and
      Form S-8 (Registration Nos. 33-87756, 333-18759, 333-49095, 333-95763,
      333-58612, 333-81456 and 333-102798) of Competitive Technologies, Inc. and
      Subsidiaries of our report dated October 4, 2006, relating to the consolidated
      financial statements, which appears in this Annual Report on Form
      10-K. 

/s/
 BDO
      Seidman, LLP  

      BDO
      Seidman, LLP 

      Valhalla,
      New York 

      October
      30, 2006 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 v055147_ex31-1.htm

Unassociated Document

Exhibit
      31.1 

CERTIFICATION   

I,
      Donald
      J. Freed, President and Chief Executive Officer and Director, certify
      that: 

1.     I
      have
      reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Competitive Technologies, Inc.
      (the
 Company  

2.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
      in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods
      presented in this report; 

4.     The
      Company s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the Company and we have: 

(a) 

designed
                such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
                controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
                ensure
                that material information relating to the Company, including its
                consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
                entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
                being
                prepared; 

(b) 

evaluated
                the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures and
                presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
                of the
                disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
                by
                this report based on such evaluation;
                and 

(c) 

disclosed
                in this report any change in the Company s internal control over financial
                reporting that occurred during the Company s most recent fiscal quarter
                (the Company s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that
                has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
                the
                Company s internal control over financial
                reporting. 

5.     The
      Company s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Company s
      auditors and the audit committee of the Company s Board of Directors (or persons
      performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 

all
                significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
                operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
                reasonably likely to adversely affect the Company s ability to record,
                process, summarize and report financial information;
                and 

(b) 

any
                fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
                employees who have a significant role in the Company s internal control
                over financial reporting. 

Date:
      October 30, 2006 

/s/
      Dr. D. J. Freed              

      Dr.
      D. J.
      Freed 

      President
      and 

      Chief
      Executive Officer and Director 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 v055147_ex31-2.htm

Unassociated Document

Exhibit
      31.2 

CERTIFICATION   

I,
      Michael D. Davidson, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, certify
      that: 

1.     I
      have
      reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Competitive Technologies, Inc.
      (the
 Company  

2.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
      in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods
      presented in this report; 

4.     The
      Company s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the Company and we have: 

(a) 

designed
                such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
                controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
                ensure
                that material information relating to the Company, including its
                consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
                entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
                being
                prepared; 

(b) 

evaluated
                the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures and
                presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
                of the
                disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
                by
                this report based on such evaluation;
                and 

(c) 

disclosed
                in this report any change in the Company s internal control over financial
                reporting that occurred during the Company s most recent fiscal quarter
                (the Company s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that
                has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
                the
                Company s internal control over financial
                reporting. 

5.     The
      Company s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Company s
      auditors and the audit committee of the Company s Board of Directors (or persons
      performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 

all
                significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
                operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
                reasonably likely to adversely affect the Company s ability to record,
                process, summarize and report financial information;
                and 

(b) 

any
                fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
                employees who have a significant role in the Company s internal control
                over financial reporting. 

Date:
      October 30, 2006 

/s/
      Michael D. Davidson        

      Michael
      D. Davidson 

      Senior
      Vice President and 

      Chief
      Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 v055147_ex32-1.htm

Unassociated Document

Exhibit
      32.1 

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO  

       SECTION
      906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

       (18
      U.S.C. 1350)  

In
      connection with the Annual Report of Competitive Technologies, Inc. (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2006, as filed with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Donald
      J. Freed, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
      pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. 1350),
      that
      to my knowledge: 

1. 

the
                Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d)
                of
                the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
                and 

2. 

the
                information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
                respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
                Company. 

/s/
      Dr. D. J. Freed           

      Dr.
      D. J.
      Freed 

      President
      and 

      Chief
      Executive Officer and Director 

      October
      30, 2006 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 v055147_ex32-2.htm

Unassociated Document

Exhibit
      32.2 

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO  

       SECTION
      906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

       (18
      U.S.C. 1350)  

In
      connection with the Annual Report of Competitive Technologies, Inc. (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2006, as filed with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Michael
      D. Davidson, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to
      Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. 1350), that to my
      knowledge: 

1. 

the
                Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d)
                of
                the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
                and 

2. 

the
                information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
                respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
                Company. 

/s/
      Michael D. Davidson        

      Michael
      D. Davidson 

      Senior
      Vice President and 

      Chief
      Financial Officer 

      October
      30, 2006 

</EX-32.2>

