<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061214_10-K_edgar_data_83402_0000083402-06-000089_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4927120</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>677832</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3516416</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>130</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000083402-06-000089.hdr.sgml : 20061214
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061214113615
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000083402-06-000089
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061214
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			RESOURCE AMERICA INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000083402
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	INVESTORS, NEC [6799]
		IRS NUMBER:				720654145
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-04408
		FILM NUMBER:		061276059

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE CRESCENT DRIVE, SUITE 203
		STREET 2:		NAVY YARD CORPORATE CENTER
		CITY:			PHILADELPHIA
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19112
		BUSINESS PHONE:		215-546-5005

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE CRESCENT DRIVE, SUITE 203
		STREET 2:		NAVY YARD CORPORATE CENTER
		CITY:			PHILADELPHIA
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19112

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	RESOURCE AMERICA LLC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20060928

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	RESOURCE AMERICA INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	RESOURCE EXPLORATION INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19890214

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 HdE/bOx4xdQb9CwV8RDf2izjX25415CM7eWZPFG9PJrfdweaGWNWJVNLvs6r2kGr
 aK+IlAPQoA2a1FJdP+fo7w==

 0000083402-06-000089.txt : 20061214

10-K
 1
 raiform10k093006.htm
 RESOURCE AMERICA, INC. FORM 10K 093006

Resource America, Inc. Form 10K 093006

UNITED
      STATES  

       SECURITIES
      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

       Washington,
      D.C. 20549  

FORM
      10-K  

      (Mark
      One) 

        x        ANNUAL
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES     EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934  

For
      the
      fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 

or  

o        TRANSITION
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES     EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934  

For
      the
      transition period from _________ to __________ 

Commission
      file number: 0-4408 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

      (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware____________      

                (State
                or other jurisdiction 

                of
                incorporation or organization) 

72-0654145   

                (I.R.S.
                Employer  

                Identification
                No.) 

One
                Crescent Drive, Suite 203  

                 Navy
                Yard Corporate Center  

                  Philadelphia,
                PA______      

                (Address
                of principal executive offices) 

________19112   

                (Zip
                Code) 

Registrant s
                telephone number, including area code:    215-546-5005   

Securities
                registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title
                of each class  

Name
                of each exchange on which registered  

None  

None  

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 

       Common
      stock, par value $.01 per share  

Title of class 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   Yes
 o  
No
 x  

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(a) of the Act. Yes  o   No  x  

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
      to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
      for
      the past 90 days.    Yes
 x
 No
 o  

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
      this
      Form 10-K. o  

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in
      Rule
      12b-2 of the Act).   Yes
 x
 No
 o  

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
      12b-2 of the Act).   Yes
 o  
No
 x  

The
      aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by non-affiliates of
      the
      registrant, based on the closing price of such stock on the last business day
      of
      the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (March 31, 2006)
      was approximately $207,494,000.  

The
      number of outstanding shares of the registrant s common stock on December 1,
      2006 was   17,292,049
        shares. 

DOCUMENTS
      INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

      [None] 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

       INDEX
      TO ANNUAL REPORT  

       ON
      FORM 10-K  

PART
      I  

ITEM
      1.       BUSINESS  

THE
      FOLLOWING DISCUSSION CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS REGARDING EVENTS AND
      FINANCIAL TRENDS WHICH MAY AFFECT OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL
      POSITION. SUCH STATEMENTS ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD
      CAUSE OUR ACTUAL RESULTS AND FINANCIAL POSITION TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE
      ANTICIPATED IN SUCH STATEMENTS. IN REAL ESTATE, THESE RISKS INCLUDE RISKS OF
      THE
      MARKETABILITY OF REAL ESTATE PROGRAMS, LOAN DEFAULTS, THE ADEQUACY OF OUR
      PROVISION FOR LOSSES AND THE ILLIQUIDITY OF OUR LOAN PORTFOLIO. IN OUR
      COMMERCIAL FINANCE AND FINANCIAL FUND MANAGEMENT BUSINESSES, THESE RISKS INCLUDE
      THE EFFECTS OF FLUCTUATIONS IN INTEREST RATES AND THE MARKETABILITY OF
      COMMERCIAL FINANCE AND COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATION PROGRAMS. FOR A MORE
      COMPLETE DISCUSSION OF THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES TO WHICH WE ARE SUBJECT,
      SEE
      ITEM 1A  RISK FACTORS.  

General  

We
      are a
      specialized asset management company that uses industry specific expertise
      to
      generate and administer investment opportunities for our own account and for
      outside investors in the financial fund management, real estate and commercial
      finance sectors. As a specialized asset manager, we develop investment funds
      in
      each sector in which outside investors invest along with us and for which we
      provide asset management services. As of September 30, 2006, we managed $12.1
      billion of assets. 

We
      limit our fund development and asset
      management services to asset classes in which we have specific expertise. We
      believe this strategy enhances the return on investment we can achieve for
      ourselves and for the investors in our funds. In our financial fund management
      operations, the asset classes on which we concentrate are asset-backed
      securities, known as ABS (principally residential and commercial mortgage-backed
      securities), structured finance securities, bank loans and the trust preferred
      securities of banks, bank holding companies, insurance companies and other
      financial companies. We describe these assets more particularly in    Financial
      Fund Management,  below. In our real estate operations, we concentrate on
      investments in multi-family and commercial real estate and real estate mortgage
      loans including whole loans, first priority interests in commercial mortgage
      loans, known as A notes, subordinated interests in first mortgage loans, known
      as B notes, and mezzanine loans. We discuss these assets more particularly
      in   
Real Estate,  below. In our commercial finance operations, we focus on
      originating small and middle-ticket equipment leases and commercial notes
      receivable through strategic marketing alliances and other program relationships
      with equipment vendors, commercial banks and other financial institutions.
      The
      financed equipment includes a wide array of business-essential equipment,
      including technology, commercial and industrial equipment and medical equipment.
      We describe these assets more particularly in   Commercial
      Finance.  

We
      have
      recently undertaken several new initiatives to expand the scope of our asset
      management operations, including private investment funds that make private
      equity investments in regional banks, a hedge fund focused on credit products
      and, through Resource Europe, Inc., the origination and management of
      international debt assets. 

3 

As of September 30, 2006 and 2005, we managed $12.1 billion and $7.1 billion
      of
      assets, respectively, for our own account, for the accounts of institutional
      and
      individual investors, for the account of Resource Capital Corp., or RCC, and
      the
      held in warehouse facilities in the following asset classes (in
      millions): 

(1)        We
      value
      these assets at their amortized cost.  

      (2)        We
      value
      our managed real estate assets as the sum of: the amortized cost of our
      commercial real estate loans; the book value of  

            real estate
      and
      other assets held by our real estate investment partnerships and
      tenant-in-common, or TIC, property interests; the 

            amount
      of our
      outstanding legacy loan portfolio; and the book value of our interests in real
      estate. 

      (3)        We
      value
      our commercial finance assets as the sum of the book value of the equipment
      and
      notes financed by us. 

Included
      in these assets at September 30, 2006 are $8.3 billion of assets held through
      the 20 collateralized debt obligation, or CDO, Issuers we have sponsored,
      including $1.4 billion in four CDOs sponsored for RCC, and $1.9 billion held
      in
      warehouse facilities for CDOs which had not closed as of September 30, 2006
      for
      which we have been engaged as the collateral manager. 

We
      attract investment funds through the sponsorship of investment vehicles,
      including CDO issuers, public and private investment partnerships, TIC programs
      and a real estate investment trust, or REIT. We arrange for the funding of
      these
      vehicles through short, medium and longer-term bank financing, CDO issuances
      and
      equity investments. We believe that we have developed a unique combination
      of
      origination channels to provide such funding, including a network of
      international investment banks for our CDOs, international and national banks
      and investment banks both for our short, medium and longer-term debt financing
      and for equity financing of RCC, and a national network of independent
      broker-dealers for our investment partnerships and TIC programs.

4 

Our
      assets under management are primarily managed through the investment vehicles
      we
      sponsor. As set forth in the table below, the number of investment vehicles
      we
      have sponsored grew significantly in 2006: 

(1) 

All
                of our operating segments, except for Resource Europe, manage assets
                on
                behalf of RCC. 

Financial
      Fund Management  

General   .
      We
      focus our financial fund management operations on the sponsorship and management
      of CDO issuers and the management of RCC. We conduct our financial fund
      management operations through three principal subsidiaries: 

Apidos
                Capital Management, LLC, or Apidos, which invests in, finances, structures
                and manages investments in bank
                loans. 

Ischus
                Capital Management, LLC, or Ischus, which invests in, finances, structures
                and manages investments in asset-backed securities or ABS, including
                residential mortgage-backed securities, or RMBS, and commercial
                mortgage-backed securities, or
                CMBS. 

Trapeza
                Capital Management, LLC, or Trapeza, a joint venture between us and
                an
                unrelated third party, which originates, structures, finances and
                manages
                investments in trust preferred securities and senior debt securities
                of
                banks, bank holding companies, insurance companies and other financial
                companies. 

CDOs   .
      In
      general, CDOs are issued by special purpose entities, which we refer to as
      CDO
      issuers, that hold portfolios of debt obligations. A CDO issuer typically issues
      two or more series of CDOs of different seniority, as well as equity (sometimes
      referred to as  preference shares ) to fund the purchase of a portfolio of
      assets. The series of CDOs are typically rated based on portfolio quality,
      diversification and, among the series of CDOs being issued, structural
      subordination. The equity issued by the CDO issuer is the  first loss  piece of
      the CDO issuer s capital structure, but is also generally entitled to all
      residual amounts available for payment after the CDO issuer s obligations to the
      holders of the CDOs have been satisfied. 

We
      have focused on the sponsorship of CDO issuers whose CDOs are backed by assets
      purchased through Ischus, Apidos and Trapeza and the management of their assets.
      We acquire assets for our CDO issuers principally in transactions with the
      issuers of those assets, and are responsible for the evaluation of assets
      proposed for inclusion in the CDO issuer s portfolio. We analyze the
      creditworthiness of the issuers of the portfolio assets, the assets themselves
      and the asset servicers through a credit committee made up of individuals with
      expertise in the targeted asset class. CDOs must be rated by one or more rating
      agencies in order for them to be eligible for many of the institutional
      investors to whom they are marketed; accordingly, we apply rating agency
      standards when evaluating assets for inclusion in a CDO issuer s
      portfolio. 

We
      fund
      the initial acquisition of a CDO issuer s portfolio assets through a secured
      warehouse credit facility prior to the closing of a CDO issuer s offering. At
      closing, the warehouse facility is refinanced through the issuance of CDOs.

5 

We
      derive
      revenues from our CDO operations through management and administration fees.
      We
      also receive distributions on amounts we invest directly in CDO issuers or
      in
      limited partnerships we form that purchase equity in our CDO issuers. Management
      fees vary by CDO issuer but, excluding CDOs managed on behalf of RCC, have
      ranged from an annual fee of between 0.25% and 0.60% of the par value of the
      CDO
      issuer s portfolio assets. For the Trapeza CDOs we manage, we share these fees
      with our co-sponsors. For CDOs managed on behalf of RCC, we receive fees
      directly from RCC pursuant to our management agreement in lieu of asset
      management fees from the CDO issuers. We describe the management fees we receive
      from RCC in    Resource Capital Corp  below. CDO issuer fees are payable
      monthly, quarterly or semi-annually, as long as we continue to manage portfolio
      assets on behalf of the CDO issuers. Our interest in distributions from the
      CDO
      issuers varies with the amount of our equity interest. In four partnerships
      in
      which we have invested that held equity interests in CDO issuers, we have
      incentive distribution interests.  

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, our financial fund management operations had sponsored
      or
      co-sponsored, structured and managed or co-managed 19 CDO issuers holding
      approximately $7.9 billion in assets as set forth in the following
      table: 

(1) 

We
                also own a 50% interest in the general partners of the limited
                partnerships that own a portion of the equity interests in each of
                seven
                Trapeza CDO issuers and one Ischus CDO issuer.

(4) 

Through
                Trapeza, we own a 50% interest in an entity that manages eight of
                the
                Trapeza CDO issuers and a 33.33% interest in an entity that manages
                two of
                the Trapeza CDO issuers. 

Real
      Estate   

General.
         Our
      real
      estate operations involve: 

the
                sponsorship and management of real estate investment partnerships
                and TIC
                programs;  

the
                management, solely for RCC, of general investments in commercial
                real
                estate debt. These investments may include first mortgage debt, whole
                loans, mortgage participations, subordinate notes, mezzanine debt
                and
                related commercial real estate securities;
                and 

to
                a lesser extent, the management and resolution of a legacy portfolio
                of
                real estate loans and property interests that we acquired at various
                times
                between 1991 and 1999.  

6 

Real
      Estate Investment Partnerships and TIC Programs.    Since
      2003, we have sponsored five real estate investment partnerships and four TIC
      programs in which investors acquire undivided fractional interests in real
      properties through a tenant-in-common structure. The partnerships and TIC
      programs have raised a total of $67.8 million and $57.6 million, respectively.
      These partnerships and TIC programs have acquired interests in 17 multi-family
      apartment complexes comprising of 5,754 units. The aggregate investment in
      the
      properties by these programs, including debt financing, is $204.8 million.
      The
      combined acquisition cost of the real estate controlled by all programs is
      $344.8 million, including interests owned by third parties. We receive
      acquisition, debt placement, and bridge equity fees from the partnerships and
      TIC programs in their acquisition stage. These fees, in the aggregate, have
      ranged from 1.75% to 2% of the acquisition costs of the properties or the debt
      financing, in the case of debt placement fees. In their operational state,
      we
      receive property management fees of 5% of gross revenues and partnership or
      program management fees of 1% on our partnership and TIC interests. We typically
      subcontract our property management obligations to third party property
      managers, who are paid 3% to 4% of gross revenues. 

Resource
      Capital Corp.    As
      of
      September 30, 2006, we managed approximately $439.7 million of commercial real
      estate loan assets on behalf of RCC, including $339.8 million of these assets
      in
      a CDO we sponsored in which RCC holds the equity interests. 

Legacy
      Portfolio of Loan and Property Interests.    In
      addition to our real estate investment partnerships, TIC programs and commercial
      loan portfolio, we have a legacy portfolio of real estate loans and property
      interests. Between fiscal 1991 and 1999, our real estate operations focused
      on
      the purchase of commercial real estate loans at discounts to their outstanding
      loan balances and the appraised value of their underlying properties. As a
      result of our ownership, management and resolution of some of these loans,
      we
      have acquired direct and indirect property interests. Since fiscal 1999, we
      have
      focused on managing and resolving our existing portfolio. However, we may sell,
      purchase or originate portfolio loans or real property investments in the future
      as part of our management process or as opportunities arise. During fiscal
      2006,
      we reduced the number of loans in this portfolio from twelve to nine through
      the
      repayment of seven loans offset by the addition of four loans in conjunction
      with the resolution of an existing loan, two ventures and one owned asset.
      We
      have retained an interest in one of the properties underlying the restructured
      loans. 

In
      applying Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation 46,  Consolidation
      of Variable Interest Entities,  or FIN 46 and its revisions, FIN 46-R, we
      consolidate certain variable interest entities, or VIEs, as to which it has
      been
      determined that we are the primary beneficiary. The assets, liabilities,
      revenues and costs and expenses of the VIEs that are included in our
      consolidated financial statements are not ours. The liabilities of the VIEs
      will
      be satisfied from the cash flows of the respective VIE s consolidated assets,
      not from our assets, since we have no legal obligation to satisfy those
      liabilities. The following table sets forth information about the loans we
      hold
      in our legacy portfolio in addition to FIN 46-R loans included in our financial
      statements (in thousands, except number of loans):  

(1) 

Consists
                of the original stated or face value of the obligation plus interest
                and
                the amount of the senior lien
                interest. 

(2) 

We
                generally obtain appraisals on each of the properties underlying
                our
                portfolio loans at least once every three years.

(3) 

Represents
                the amount of the senior lien
                interests. 

(4) 

Represents
                the book cost of our investment, including subsequent advances, after
                accretion of discount and allocation of gains from the sale of a
                senior
                lien interest in, or borrower refinancing of, the loan, but excludes
                an
                allowance for possible losses of       $770,000
                at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

(5) 

For
                loans held as FIN 46 entities  assets, the carried cost represents our
                investment adjusted to reflect the requirements of FIN 46-R of which
                $29.7
                million was classified as held for sale on the balance sheet at September
                30, 2005 (none at September 30,
                2006). 

(6)  
        Consists
      of the amounts set forth in the column "Outstanding Loans Receivable" less
      amounts in the column  Third Party Liens.  

7 

Resource
      Capital Corp.      

RCC
      is a
      publicly-traded (NYSE:RSO) REIT that we sponsored in fiscal 2005. RCC invests
      in
      a diversified portfolio of B notes, CMBS and other real estate-related loans
      and
      commercial finance assets. We manage RCC through Resource Capital Manager,
      Inc.,
      or RCM, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary. At September 30, 2006, we managed
      approximately $2.3 billion of assets on behalf of RCC. See    
General.  

At
      September 30, 2006, we owned 1.9 million shares of RCC common stock, or about
      10.7% of RCC s outstanding common stock and held options to acquire 2,166 shares
      (at an average price per share of $15.00) and warrants to acquire an additional
      100,088 shares (at $15.00 per share) of RCC common stock.  

In
        addition to dividends we receive on our RCC common stock, we derive revenues
        from RCC through its management agreement with RCM. Under this agreement,
        RCM
        receives a base management fee, incentive compensation and a reimbursement
        for
        out-of-pocket expenses. The base management fee is 1/12   th   
        of 1.50%
        of RCC s equity per month. The management agreement defines  equity  as,
        essentially, shareholder s equity, subject to adjustment for non-cash equity
        compensation expense and non-recurring changes to which the parties agree.
        The
        incentive compensation is 25% of the amount by which RCC s quarterly net income
        exceeds an amount equal to the weighted average issuance price of RCC s common
        shares, multiplied by the greater of 2% or 0.50% plus one-fourth of the ten-year
        treasury rate. RCM receives at least 25% of its incentive compensation in
        additional shares of RCC common stock and has the option to receive more
        of its
        incentive compensation in stock under the management agreement.  

Furthermore, we receive an acquisition fee of 1% of the carrying value of
        the
        commercial finance assets we sold to RCC. 

In
        fiscal
        2006, the management and acquisition fees we received from RCC were $8.2
        million, or 10% of our consolidated revenues. These fees have been reported
        as
        revenues by each of our operating segments, except for Resource
        Europe. 

Commercial
      Finance  

We
      focus
      our commercial finance operations on equipment leases and asset-based loans
      to
      small and mid-sized companies. Our equipment lease financing is generally for
       business-essential  equipment including technology, commercial, industrial and
      medical equipment, with a primary financed transaction size of under $2.0
      million and an average size of between $50,000 to $100,000. Our asset-backed
      non-commercial financing is used by borrowers to acquire professional practices,
      such as dental or veterinary practice and business franchises. We also provide
      loans to other commercial finance companies secured by pledged financial assets.
      Our asset-based loans generally range from between $5 million to $15
      million. 

During
      fiscal 2006, we originated $423.6 million in commercial finance assets (based
      on
      book value). As of September 30, 2006, we managed a commercial finance portfolio
      totaling $613.0 million, including $92.0 million on behalf of RCC, $402.0
      million on behalf of two public limited partnerships we sponsored, $109.0
      million for our own account and $10.0 million pursuant to an arrangement with
      a
      subsidiary of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, or ML,
      pursuant to which we originate, service and manage equipment leases with
      tax-exempt entities. Before September 28, 2006, we also had an arrangement
      with
      ML to originate, service and manage equipment leases and commercial finance
      notes with small and mid-size businesses, which was terminated by the sale
      of
      that portfolio to one of our public investment partnerships. 

We
      receive acquisition and management fees from RCC, from our investment
      partnerships and from ML. As of September 30, 2006, acquisition fees ranging
      from 1% to 2% of the cost of the equipment or the amount financed while annual
      servicing and management fees ranged from 1% to 1.8% of the book value of the
      assets and the equity managed, respectively. 

8 

New
      Initiatives  

In
      fiscal
      2006, we undertook several new initiatives to expand the scope of our asset
      management operations, as follows: 

Public
                Equity.    We
                sponsored three investment partnerships for institutional and individual
                investors focused on private equity investments in domestic regional
                banks. At September 30, 2006, we managed $20.5 million in assets
                on behalf
                of these investment partnerships. 

Hedge
                Fund.    We
                sponsored one partnership for institutional and individual investors
                that
                was structured as a hedge fund. The fund focuses on credit products.
                At
                September 30, 2006, we managed $37.1 million in ABS and syndicated
                bank
                loans on behalf of this fund. 

Resource
                Europe.    We
                formed Resource Europe, Inc. in fiscal 2006 to focus on investments
                in
                international, principally European, bank loans. As of September
                30, 2006,
                we managed $66.4 million in bank loan assets held on a warehouse
                line of
                credit. We expect to acquire additional bank loan assets on the warehouse
                line and to obtain term financing for these acquisitions through
                a CDO
                issuance in the second quarter of fiscal
                2007. 

Resource
      Europe  

In April 2006, we commenced our European leveraged loan operations, Resource
      Europe, based in London, England. Operating results for fiscal 2006 reflected
      approximately $1.0 million of costs, mostly wages and rent. Resource Europe
      is
      in the process of completing its first CDO which it expects to close in the
      second quarter of fiscal 2007.  

Credit
      Facilities   

Through
      our subsidiaries, we have access to three separate credit facilities, which
      we
      describe in this section. We also have arranged three credit facilities for
      three of our CDO issuers relating to their accumulation of assets, for which
      we
      are a guarantor. The aggregate amount of losses guaranteed under these
      facilities, which we describe in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
      Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Contractual Obligations and
      Other Commercial Commitments  was $29.0 million at September 30,
      2006. 

On
      July
      31, 2006, LEAF entered into a $150.0 million revolving warehouse facility with
      a
      group of banks led by National City Bank. Outstanding borrowings bear interest
      at one of two rates: (i) London Inter-Bank Offered Rates, or LIBOR, plus 150
      basis points or (ii) the prime rate. As of September 30, 2006, the balance
      outstanding was $86.4 million at an interest rate of 6.9%. The underlying
      equipment being leased or financed collateralized the borrowings under this
      facility. The Company has guaranteed this facility up to a maximum of $75.0
      million. 

We
      have a
      $14.0 million revolving line of credit with Sovereign Bank based on pledged
      real
      estate collateral and 700,000 shares of RCC stock expiring in July 2009.
      Outstanding borrowings bear interest at one of two rates, elected at our option:
      (i) LIBOR plus 200 basis points or (ii) the prime rate. Availability under
      the
      facility is limited based on the value of assets pledged as security. As of
      September 30, 2006, there were no outstanding borrowings and $11.4 million
      was
      available under this line.  

We
        also
        have a $25.0 million revolving line of credit with Commerce Bank expiring
        in
        August 2009 secured by collateral of 358,290 shares of TBBK stock and 1.2
        million shares of RCC stock. Outstanding borrowings bear interest at one
        of two
        rates, elected at our option: (i) LIBOR  
        plus
        2.25% or   (ii) the
        prime rate plus 1%. Credit availability is based on the value of assets pledged
        as security. As of September 30, 2006, there were no outstanding borrowings
        and
        $22.1 million was available under this line. 

9 

Asset
      Sourcing  

We
      originate assets, other than commercial finance investments, commercial real
      estate whole loans and trust preferred securities, through a variety of
      financial industry sources including investment banks, brokerage firms,
      commercial banks and loan originators, including Banc Investment Group, LLC,
      Barclays Capital Inc, Bear, Stearns International Limited, Citibank N.A., Credit
      Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, FIG Partners, LLC, Friedman, Billings, Ramsey
 
Co., Inc., Howe Barnes Investments, Inc., Keefe, Bruyette   Woods, Inc.,
      Lehman Brothers Inc., Morgan Keegan   Co., Inc., Morgan Stanley   Co.
      Incorporated, RBS Greenwich Capital, Stifel, Nicolaus   Company,
      Incorporated, and UBS Securities LLC. We base our origination capability on
      relationships our asset management professionals have developed with these
      sources over their professional careers, as well as upon our current presence
      in
      the market place as sponsor, originator, holder or acquirer of assets for
      investment entities and for our own account. 
 
      LEAF
      Financial is responsible for sourcing our commercial finance investments. LEAF
      Financial s strategy for originating commercial finance assets involves
      marketing to direct sales organizations which offer LEAF Financial s financing
      as part of their marketing package. By developing and maintaining programs
      with
      these organizations, LEAF Financial is able to use their sales force, and its
      outside distributors, dealers and resellers, to market its commercial finance
      products and services to the highly dispersed population of small- to
      middle-sized businesses, which is LEAF Financial s targeted
      demographic. 

In
      May
      2006, we hired a team of two commercial real estate lending professionals to
      originate commercial real estate whole loans directly from borrowers. This
      team,
      which previously headed a commercial lending office for a large investment
      bank,
      uses the contacts they have developed in the commercial finance industry to
      obtain borrower referrals. 

Our
      ability to source trust preferred investment opportunities comes from the
      relationships we have developed with the regional broker-dealer community that
      services smaller financial services companies. We also expect to source
      investments directly through our own relationships in the commercial banking
      sector. 

Employees  

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, we employed 224 full-time workers, an increase of 70, or
      45%, from 154 employees at September 30, 2005. The following table summarizes
      our employees by operating segment: 

ITEM
          1A. RISK FACTORS  

You
          should carefully consider the risks that follow together with all of the
          other
          information contained in this report in evaluating our company. If any
          of these
          risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition and
          results
          of operations could be materially adversely affected and the trading price
          of
          our common stock could decline. 

10 

Risks
      Related to Our Business Generally  

Our
      business depends upon our ability to sponsor and raise investor capital for
      our
      investment funds.   

Our
      business
      as a specialized asset manager depends upon our ability to sponsor, and raise
      capital, through investment funds and to generate management fees by managing
      those funds and the assets they hold. If we are unable to raise capital through
      these funds, our ability to increase our managed assets, and thus our revenues
      from management fees, will be materially impaired. Our ability to raise capital
      through these funds will depend upon numerous factors, including 

the
                performance of our existing funds; 

market
                acceptance of the types of funds we
                sponsor; 

the
                availability of qualified personnel to manage our
                funds; 

the
                availability of suitable investments in the types of loans, real
                estate,
                commercial finance assets and other assets that we seek to acquire
                for our
                funds; and 

interest
                rate changes and their effect on both the assets we seek to acquire
                for
                our funds, and the amount, cost and availability of acquisition
                financing. 

Our
        revenues depend to a significant extent upon the performance of the assets
        we
        manage.   

Our
        asset
        management revenues depend, to a significant extent, upon the value of the
        assets we manage and the returns achieved by those assets. If either or
        both the value of those assets or the revenues from them decline, our
        management revenues will decline, which could impair our profitability. Asset
        values and revenues from managed assets may be affected by factors beyond
        our
        control, including interest rate changes and other economic or market
        conditions. Moreover, our ability to compete and grow depends, in part, on
        the
        relative attractiveness of the type of investment funds we sponsor and our
        management performance and strategies under prevailing market conditions.
        Changes in our absolute performance, or performance relative to competing
        investments, market indices or other criteria could impair our ability to
        maintain or increase our revenues. 

Increases
      in interest rates may increase our operating costs.   

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, we had two corporate credit facilities, one commercial
      finance credit facilities and, with respect to two CDO issuers we are
      sponsoring, warehouse credit facilities. We expect that in the course of our
      operations we will obtain other credit facilities. All of our current credit
      facilities are at variable interest rates, and we expect that future facilities
      will also be at variable rates. As a result, increases in interest rates on
      our
      credit facilities, to the extent they are not matched by increased interest
      rates or other income from the assets whose acquisition is financed by these
      facilities, will increase our interest costs, which would reduce our net income.

Our
      revenues depend to a significant extent upon the performance of the assets
      we
      manage.   

The
      investments made by many of our funds are interest-rate sensitive. As a result,
      changes in interest rates could reduce the value of the assets held and the
      returns to investors, thereby impairing our ability to raise capital and
      reducing both our returns on amounts we have invested in the funds as well
      as
      management and other fees that may depend on fund net impaired. 

If
      we cannot generate sufficient cash to fund our participations in our investment
      funds, our ability to maintain and increase our revenues may be
      impaired.   

We
      typically participate in our investment funds along with our investors, and
      believe that our participation enhances our ability to raise capital from
      investors. We typically fund our participations through cash derived from
      operations or from financing. If our cash from operations is insufficient to
      fund our participation in future investment funds we sponsor, and we cannot
      arrange for financing, our continuing ability to raise funds from investors
      and,
      thus, our ability to maintain and increase the revenues we receive from fund
      management, will be impaired. 

11 

Termination
      of management arrangements with one or more of our investment funds could harm
      our business.   

We
      provide our management services to our investment funds through management
      agreements, as well as through our position as the sole or managing general
      partner of partnership funds or as the operating manager of other fund entities,
      or combinations thereof. Our arrangements are long-term, and frequently have
      no
      specified termination dates. However, our management arrangements with, or
      our
      position as general partner or operating manager of, an investment fund
      typically may be terminated by action taken by the investors. Upon any such
      termination, our management fees, after payment of any termination payments
      required, would cease, reducing our expected revenues. 
 
        We
      may have difficulty managing our growth which may divert resources and limit
      our
      ability to expand our operations successfully.   

The
      amount of assets we manage has grown substantially from $7.1 billion at
      September 30, 2005 to $12.1 billion at September 30, 2006. We expect to continue
      to experience significant growth in our assets under management. Our future
      success will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue
      to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls,
      reporting systems and procedures, and manage a growing number of assets and
      investment funds. We may not implement improvements to our management
      information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may
      discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Consequently, our
      continued growth may place a strain on our administrative and operations
      infrastructure. Any such strain could increase our costs or reduce or eliminate
      our profitability. 

Our
      business will be harmed if we are unable to locate and retain key
      personnel.   

Our
      ability to locate and retain quality personnel has contributed significantly
      to
      our growth and success and is important to attracting investors. The market
      for
      qualified executives, asset managers and other key personnel is extremely
      competitive. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in
      our
      efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. The loss of any of our
      professional personnel could reduce our revenues and earnings. 

We
      are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our
      business.   

Our
      ability to sponsor investment funds is highly dependent on both our access
      to
      various distribution systems of national, regional and local securities firms,
      and our ability to locate and acquire appropriate assets for our investment
      funds. We are subject to substantial competition in each area. In the
      distribution area, our investment funds compete with those sponsored by other
      asset managers which are being distributed through the same networks as well
      as
      investments sponsored by the securities firms themselves. While we have been
      successful in maintaining access to these distribution channels, we cannot
      assure you that we will continue to do so. The inability to have continued
      access to our distribution channels could reduce the number of funds we sponsor
      and assets we manage, thereby impeding and possibly impairing our revenues
      and
      revenue growth. 

In
      acquiring appropriate assets for our investment funds, we compete with numerous
      public and private investment vehicles, commercial banks, investment banks
      and
      other financial institutions, as well as industry participants in each of our
      separate asset management areas. Many of our competitors are substantially
      larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing
      resources than we do. Competition for desirable investments may result in higher
      costs and lower investment returns, and may delay our sponsorship of investment
      funds. 

There
      are few economic barriers to entry in the asset management
      business.   

Our
      investment funds compete against an ever-increasing number of investment and
      asset management products and services sponsored by investment banks, banks,
      insurance companies, financial services companies and others. There are few
      economic barriers to entry into the investment or asset management industries
      and, as a result, we expect that competition for access to distribution channels
      and appropriate assets to acquire will increase.  

12 

Risks
      Relating to Particular Aspects of Our Financial Fund Management, Real Estate
      and
      Commercial Finance Operations  

We
      depend upon CDO issuances as the principal source of term financing for assets
      we acquire for our account and for the account of investment entities we
      sponsor. If we are unable to access the CDO market, or are able to do so only
      on
      unattractive terms, our ability to acquire assets and sponsor investment
      vehicles may be limited.   

We
      use
      CDO financing to provide term funding for a significant portion of the assets
      we
      acquire, both for our own account and for the account of investment vehicles
      we
      sponsor. Pending financing through a CDO, we accumulate assets through warehouse
      and other short-term credit facilities. As a result, during the accumulation
      period, we are subject to the risk that the assets we acquire may not meet
      standards established by underwriters, rating agencies and CDO purchasers for
      CDO financing. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may limit or
      eliminate our ability to use CDOs as term financing for the kinds of assets
      we
      seek to acquire, or make the issuance of CDOs economically unattractive. If
      we
      are unable to issue CDOs to finance assets we accumulate, we may have to seek
      other, potentially more economically unfavorable forms of term financing, or
      liquidate assets which may be at a price lower than the acquisition price.
      Any
      such occurrence could limit or eliminate our ability to acquire assets or
      sponsor investment vehicles to hold these assets and, accordingly, impair our
      ability to generate asset management fees, which are a significant portion
      of
      our gross revenues. 

We
      arrange for warehouse and other short term financing for assets we accumulate
      for CDOs for our own account and for the account of investment vehicles we
      sponsor. We typically guarantee some portion of amounts drawn on these
      facilities which exposes us to loss.   

We
      typically accumulate assets for our own account and for the account of
      investment vehicles we sponsor by using warehouse and other short term financing
      pending obtaining term financing through CDOs or other longer-term credit
      facilities. If we cannot arrange CDO or other term financing, short term lenders
      may liquidate the assets accumulated through their credit facilities which,
      depending upon market conditions, could be at a price which is less than what
      we
      paid. Because we typically are required to guarantee the short term lender
      against loss, either generally or subject to negotiated caps, we will have
      to
      bear any loss realized up to the guaranty cap amount, if any. Our loss exposure
      at September 30, 2006 was $29.0 million. 

Our
      income from our interests in CDOs may be volatile.   

We
      account for our investments in the Trapeza CDO programs, described in
 Business-Financial Fund Management,  under the equity method of accounting.
      Accordingly, we recognize our percentage share of any income or loss of these
      entities. Because the Trapeza entities are investment companies for accounting
      purposes, such income or loss includes a  mark-to-market  adjustment to reflect
      the net changes in value, including unrealized appreciation or depreciation,
      in
      investments and swap agreements. Such value will be impacted by changes in
      the
      underlying quality of the Trapeza entities  investments and by changes in
      interest rates. To the extent that the Trapeza entities  investments are
      securities with a fixed rate of interest, increases in interest rates will
      likely cause the value of the investments to fall and decreases in interest
      rates will likely cause the value of the investments to rise. The Trapeza
      entities  various interest rate hedge and swap agreements will also change in
      value with changes in interest rates. In addition, as the equity interests
      that
      we hold in CDO issuers either directly or through limited partnership
      investments are terminated, we obtain a return of capital only after all
      payments are made on the CDOs. If there are defaults on the collateral
      securities held by these issuers, our distributions and return of capital upon
      liquidation may be reduced or eliminated. Accordingly, our income or loss from
      our CDO investments and from future similar CDO investments may be volatile.

13 

Real
      estate loans in our portfolio are subject to higher risk of default than first
      mortgage loans.   

The
      primary or sole source of recovery for our real estate loans and property
      interests is typically the underlying real property. Accordingly, the value
      of
      our loans and property interests depends upon the value of that real property.
      Many of the properties underlying our portfolio loans, while income producing,
      do not generate sufficient revenues to pay the full amount of debt service
      required under the original loan terms or have other problems. There may be
      a
      higher risk of default with these loans as compared to conventional loans.
      Loan
      defaults will reduce our current return on investment and may require us to
      become involved in expensive and time-consuming bankruptcy, reorganization
      or
      foreclosure proceedings. 

Real
      estate loans in our portfolio require large lump sum payments at maturity,
      increasing the risk of default.   

Our
      loans, including those treated in our consolidated financial statements as
      FIN
      46 assets and liabilities, typically provide payment structures other than
      equal
      periodic payments that retire a loan over its specified term, including
      structures that defer payment of some portion of accruing interest, or defer
      repayment of principal, until loan maturity. Where a borrower must pay a loan
      balance in a large lump sum payment, its ability to satisfy this obligation
      may
      depend upon its ability to obtain suitable refinancing or otherwise to raise
      a
      substantial cash amount, which we do not control. In addition, lenders can
      lose
      their lien priority in many jurisdictions, including those in which our existing
      loans are located, to persons who supply labor or materials to a property.
      For
      these and other reasons, the total amount which we may recover from one of
      our
      loans may be less than the total amount of the carrying value of the loan or
      our
      cost of acquisition. 

The
      value of our portfolio of real estate loans and property interests depends
      upon
      the value of the underlying real properties which may decline due to factors
      beyond our control.   

Declines
      in real property values generally and/or in those specific markets where the
      properties underlying our portfolio of loans and property interests are located
      could affect the value of those properties and, with respect to our portfolio
      loans, default rates. Properties underlying our loans and our property interests
      may be affected by general and local economic conditions, neighborhood values,
      competitive overbuilding, casualty losses and other factors beyond our control.
      The value of real properties may also be affected by factors such as the cost
      of
      compliance with, and liability under environmental laws, changes in interest
      rates and the availability of financing. Income from a property will be reduced
      if a significant number of tenants are unable to pay rent or if available space
      cannot be rented on favorable terms. Operating and other expenses of real
      properties, particularly significant expenses such as real estate taxes,
      insurance and maintenance costs, generally do not decrease when revenues
      decrease and, even if revenues increase, operating and other expenses may
      increase faster than revenues. 

Our
      portfolio of real estate loans principally consists of junior mortgage loans,
      which are subject to higher default risks than senior
      financing.   

Many
      of
      our portfolio loans, including those treated in our consolidated financial
      statements as FIN 46 assets and liabilities, are junior lien obligations.
      Subordinate lien financing poses a greater credit risk, including a
      substantially greater risk of nonpayment of interest or principal, than senior
      lien financing. If we or any senior lender forecloses on a loan, we will be
      entitled to share only in the net foreclosure proceeds after payment to all
      senior lenders. It is therefore possible that we will not recover the full
      amount of a foreclosed loan or the amount of our unrecovered investment in
      the
      loan. 

Our
      real estate loan loss reserve may not be sufficient to cover future
      losses.   

At
      September 30, 2006, our allowance for possible losses was $770,000, which
      represents 1.5% of the book value of our investments in real estate loans and
      property interests. We cannot assure you that this allowance will prove to
      be
      sufficient to cover future losses, or that future provisions for losses will
      not
      be materially greater than those we have recorded to date. Losses that exceed
      our allowance for losses, or cause an increase in our provision for losses,
      could materially reduce our earnings.  

14 

Our
      real estate loans are illiquid, and we may not be able to divest them in
      response to changing economic, financial and investment
      conditions.   

The
      loans
      in our portfolio, including those treated in our consolidated financial
      statements as FIN 46 assets and liabilities, typically do not conform to
      standard loan underwriting criteria. Many of our loans are subordinate loans.
      As
      a result, our loans are relatively illiquid investments. We may be unable to
      vary our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment
      conditions. 

Hazardous
      or toxic substances on properties underlying our loans may subject us to
      environmental liabilities.   

The
      existence of hazardous or toxic substances on a property will reduce its value
      and our ability to sell the property in the event of a default in the loan
      it
      underlies. Contamination of a real property by hazardous substances or toxic
      wastes not only may give rise to a lien on that property to assure payment
      of
      the cost of remediation, but also can result in liability to us as an owner,
      lender or, if we assume management, as an operator, for that cost regardless
      of
      whether we know of, or are responsible for, the contamination. In addition,
      if
      we arrange for disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we
      may
      be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the
      site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws
      may require us to incur substantial expenses to remediate contaminated
      properties and may materially limit use of these properties. In addition, future
      laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect
      to
      existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability.

We
      may be required to repurchase up to $3.5 million of real estate loan
      participations we have sold.   

Before
      fiscal 2000, we entered into a series of standby commitments with some
      participants in our loans which obligate us to repurchase their participations
      or substitute a performing loan if the borrower defaults. At September 30,
      2006,
      the participations as to which we had standby commitments had an aggregate
      outstanding balance of $1.3 million.  

Our
      equipment leases and commercial notes may have greater risks of default than
      senior secured loans.   

While
      we
      expect that we will transfer our commercial financing assets, principally direct
      financing leases, operating leases and equipment notes, to third party programs
      or, to a lesser extent, RCC, we typically retain some assets for our own
      account. Many of the entities seeking equipment financing from us are small-
      to
      middle-size businesses. As a result, we may be subject to higher risks of a
      default than if we provided equipment financing to larger businesses. While
      we
      will seek to repossess and re-lease or sell the equipment subject to a defaulted
      lease or other commercial finance instrument, we may not be able to do so on
      advantageous terms. If a borrower files for protection under the bankruptcy
      laws, we may experience difficulties and delays in recovering the equipment.
      Moreover, the equipment may be returned in poor condition and we may be unable
      to enforce important lease or loan provisions against an insolvent borrower,
      including the contract provisions that require the borrower to return the
      equipment in good condition. In some cases, the deteriorating financial
      condition of a borrower may make trying to recover what it owes impractical.
      The
      costs of recovering equipment upon a default, enforcing obligations under the
      lease or loan, and transporting, storing, repairing and finding a new borrower
      or purchaser for the equipment may be high. Higher than expected lease defaults
      will result in a loss of anticipated revenues. 

ITEM
      1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None 

15 

ITEM
      2.       PROPERTIES  

Philadelphia,
      Pennsylvania:  

We
      maintain our executive and corporate offices at One Crescent Drive in the
      Philadelphia Naval Yard under a lease for 8,771 square feet that expires in
      May
      2019. We lease 20,207 square feet for additional executive office space and
      for
      certain of our real estate operations at 1845 Walnut Street. This lease, which
      expires in May 2008, contains extension options through 2033 and is in an office
      building in which we own a 30% equity interest. Our commercial finance
      operations are located in another office building at 1818 Market Street under
      a
      lease for 29,554 square feet that expires in March 2008.  

New
      York City, New York:  

We
      maintain additional executive offices in a 12,930 square foot location in New
      York City at 712 5   th   
      Avenue
      under a lease agreement that expires in March 2010. Certain of our financial
      fund management and real estate operations are also located in these
      offices. 

Other:  

We
      maintain various other office leases in the following cities: Los Angeles and
      San Francisco, California; Portland, Oregon; Northfield, Illinois; Denver,
      Colorado; and Bloomfield, Michigan. We also lease office space in London,
      England for our European operations. 

ITEM
      3.       LEGAL
      PROCEEDINGS  

In
      October 2006, Atlas America (our former energy subsidiary) tentatively settled
      a
      class action lawsuit filed in February 2000 in New York pertaining to the
      payment of royalty revenues to landowners. We are a named defendant in the
      lawsuit. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, Atlas America has agreed
      to
      pay $300,000. We believe that this matter will not have a material adverse
      effect on our financial condition or operations. 

We
      are a
      party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course
      of
      our business. Management believes that none of these actions, individually
      or in
      the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
      or
      results of operations.  

ITEM
      4.       SUBMISSION
      OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOL    DERS        

No
      matter
      was submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended September
      30, 2006. 

16 

PART
      II  

ITEM
      5.         MARKET
      FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED   STOCKHOLDER
      MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF

EQUITY
      SECURITIES        

Our
      common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "REXI."
      The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices as reported by
      Nasdaq and as adjusted for the spin-off of Atlas America as of June 30, 2005,
      on
      a quarterly basis for our last two fiscal years: 

As
      of December 1, 2006, there were 17,292,049 shares of common stock outstanding
      held by 388 holders of record. 

We
      have
      paid regular quarterly cash dividends since the fourth quarter of fiscal 1995.
      Commencing with the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we increased our quarterly
      dividend by 52% from $0.033 to $0.05 per common share and for fiscal 2006,
      further increased our quarterly dividend by 20% to $0.06 per common
      share. 

Additionally,
      in fiscal 2005, we distributed our 10.7 million shares of Atlas America to
      our
      stockholders in the form of a tax-free distribution valued at $91.4
      million. 

Securities
      Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans  

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Plan
                category 

Number
                of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options,

warrants
                and rights 

Weighted-average
                exercise price of outstanding options,  

                warrants
                and rights 

Number
                of securities remaining available for 

                future
                issuance under equity compensation 

                plans
                excluding securities  

                reflected
                in column (a) 

Equity
                compensation plans   approved

by
                security   holders 

3,865,296 

$  7.54 

821,698 

17 

The following table provides information about purchases by us during the
      quarter ended September 30, 2006 of equity securities that are registered
      by us pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:

Issuer
      Purchases of Equity Securities  

(1) 

On
                September 21, 2004, the Board of Directors approved a share repurchase
                program under which we may buy up to $50.0 million of our outstanding
                common stock from time to time in open market purchases or through
                privately negotiated transactions. 

18 

ITEM
      6.       SELECTED
      FINANCIAL DATA  

The
      following selected financial data should be read together with our consolidated
      financial statements, the notes to the consolidated financial statements and
      "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations" in Item 7 of this report. We derived the selected consolidated
      financial data for each of the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      and as of September 30, 2006 and 2005 from our consolidated financial statements
      appearing elsewhere in this report, which have been audited by Grant Thornton
      LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. We derived the selected
      financial data for the years ended September 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and as
      of
      September 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002 from our consolidated financial statements
      for
      those periods which were audited by Grant Thornton LLP but are not included
      in
      this report. As a result of the completion of our spin-off of Atlas America
      in
      June 2005, financial data relating to our former energy operations has been
      reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 

19 

ITEM
      7.           MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION     AND
      RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

In
      the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we spun-off our energy operation, Atlas
      America, to our stockholders and focused on being a specialized asset manager
      in
      financial fund management, real estate and commercial finance.      Before
      the spin-off, in fiscal 2003, we took initiatives and expanded our specialized
      asset management businesses. These initiatives have resulted in material growth
      in both revenues and assets under management for those operations. Our total
      assets under management increased from $7.1 billion at September 30, 2005 to
      $12.1 billion at September 30, 2006, a 71% increase. Included in this amount
      at
      September 30, 2006 are $1.9 billion of financial fund management assets that
      are
      being carried on eight warehouse facilities for which we have been engaged
      as
      the collateral manager by CDO issuers for CDOs not closed. In addition, assets
      are being acquired for two additional CDOs which are not carried on warehouse
      facilities. We expect to close four CDOs in the first quarter of fiscal 2007
      and
      six CDOs in subsequent periods.  

The
      growth in our assets under management was particularly accelerated by our
      sponsorship in March 2005 of Resource Capital Corp. ( RCC ) (NYSE: RSO) which,
      at September 30, 2006, had $2.4 billion in assets, of which we manage $2.3
      billion. RCC, a real estate investment trust focuses on originating and
      investing in commercial real estate secured loans, whole loans, B-notes,
      mezzanine loans, mortgage-related securities and other real estate related
      assets and to a lesser extent, higher-yielding commercial finance assets and
      asset-backed securities. We derive revenues from RCC through its management
      agreement with our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Resource Capital Manager,
      Inc., or, RCM. In return for providing certain investment and advisory services,
      RCM is entitled to receive a base management fee and an incentive management
      fee. RCM also receives reimbursement for certain out-of-pocket expenses that
      relate to RCC s activities. As of September 30, 2006, we own $1.9 million shares
      of RCC from which we expect to receive quarterly dividends. We also hold options
      and warrants to acquire an additional 102,254 shares at a cost of $15.00 per
      share. 

The growth in our assets under management was the result of: 

an
                increase in the financial fund management assets we manage on behalf
                of
                individual and institutional investors and RCC;

an
                increase in real estate assets managed on behalf of limited partnerships
                and TIC property interests that we sponsor and RCC; and

an
                increase in commercial finance assets managed on behalf of the limited
                partnerships we sponsor, Merrill Lynch, and
                RCC. 

The following table sets forth information relating to our assets under
      management by operating segment and their growth from September 30, 2005 to
      September 30, 2006 (in millions): 

20 

Our
      assets under management are primarily managed through various investment
      vehicles including CDOs, public and private limited partnerships, TIC property
      interests, a real estate investment trust, and other investment funds. The
      following table sets forth the number of entities we manage by operating
      segment: 

(1) 

All
                of our operating segments, except for Resource Europe, manage assets
                on
                behalf of RCC. 

The
      revenues in each of our business segments are generated by the fees we earn
      for
      structuring and managing the investment vehicles we sponsor on behalf of
      individual and institutional investors, RCC and ML and the income produced
      by
      the assets and investments we manage for our own account. The following table
      sets forth certain information related to the revenues we have recognized in
      each of these revenue categories (in thousands): 

(1) 

Includes
                fees from each of our financial fund management, real estate and
                commercial finance operations and our share of the income or loss
                from
                limited and general partnership interests we own in our financial
                fund
                management and real estate
                operations. 

(2) 

Includes
                interest income on bank loans from our financial fund management
                and
                Resource Europe operations, interest and accreted discount income
                from our
                real estate operations, interest and rental income from our commercial
                finance operations and revenues from certain real estate
                assets. 

(3) 

Includes
                the resolution of loans we hold in our real estate
                segment. 

(4) 

Reflects
                net gains (losses) recognized by our real estate segment on the sale
                of
                TIC interests to outside investors. 

(5) 

Includes
                the equity compensation earned in connection with the formation of
                RCC and
                the disposition of leases and loans as well as other charges in our
                commercial finance operations. 

A
      detailed description of the revenues generated by each of our business segments
      can be found under Results of Operations: Financial Fund Management, Real Estate
      and Commercial Finance. 

21 

Results
      of Operations: Financial Fund Management   

We conduct our financial fund management operations through three principal
      subsidiaries: 

Apidos
                Capital Management, LLC, which invests in, finances, structures and
                manages investments in bank loans. 

Ischus
                Capital Management, LLC, which invests in, finances, structures and
                manages investments in asset-backed securities or ABS, including
                residential mortgage-backed securities, or RMBS, and commercial
                mortgage-backed securities, or
                CMBS. 

Trapeza
                Capital Management, LLC, a joint venture between us and an unrelated
                third
                party, which originates, structures, finances and manages investments
                in
                trust preferred securities and senior debt securities of banks, bank
                holding companies, insurance companies and other financial
                companies. 

The
      following table sets forth information relating to assets managed by us on
      behalf of institutional and individual investors and RCC (in
      millions): 

We
      earn
      fees on assets managed on behalf of institutional and individual investors
      as
      follows: 

collateral
                management fees    
                these vary by CDO, ranging from an annual fee between 0.08% and 0.75%
                of
                the aggregate principal balance of the collateral securities owned
                by the
                CDO issuers; and 

administration
                fees    
                these vary by limited partnership, ranging from between 0.75% and
                2.00% of
                the partnership capital balance. 

The
      distributions we expect to receive from each CDO issuer varies and is dependent
      on our investment in a particular limited partnership and with the terms of
      our
      general partner interest. 

Apidos   

We
      sponsored, structured and currently manage four CDO issuers for institutional
      and individual investors and RCC which hold approximately $1.3 billion in bank
      loans at September 30, 2006, of which $614.9 million are managed on behalf
      of
      RCC through Apidos CDO I and Apidos CDO III. In addition, at September 30,
      2006,
      we managed $624.3 million of bank loans for four CDOs currently in their
      accumulation stage, one of which we expect to close in the first quarter of
      fiscal 2007 and three which we expect to close in subsequent
      periods. 

We
      derive
      revenues from our Apidos operations through base and incentive management fees
      of up to 0.75% of the aggregate principal balance of the collateral held by
      the
      CDO issuers of which a portion is subordinated to debt service payments on
      the
      CDOs and interest income earned on the assets of certain issuers during the
      warehousing period prior to execution of a CDO.  

22 

Ischus   

We
      sponsored, structured and currently manage five CDO issuers for institutional
      and individual investors and RCC, holding approximately $3.1 billion in
      primarily real estate ABS including RMBS, CMBS and credit default swaps. At
      September 30, 2006, we managed $568.0 million of ABS for two CDOs which we
      expect to close in subsequent periods. At September 30, 2006, Ischus also
      managed approximately $764.7 million of agency RMBS on behalf of
      RCC. 

We
      own a
      50% interest in the general partner and manager of Structured Finance Fund,
      L.P.
      and Structured Finance Fund II, L.P., collectively referred to as the SFF
      partnerships. These partnerships own a portion of the equity interests of three
      Trapeza CDO issuers and Ischus CDO I. We also have invested as a limited partner
      in each of these limited partnerships.  

We
      derive
      revenues from our Ischus operations through management and administration fees.
      We also receive distributions on amounts we invest in the limited partnerships.
      Management fees vary by CDO issuer, ranging from between 0.08% and 0.40% of
      the
      aggregate principal balance of the collateral held by the CDO issuer of which
      a
      portion is subordinated to debt service payments on the CDOs.  

Trapeza   

We
      have
      co-sponsored, structured and currently co-manage ten CDO issuers holding
      approximately $3.5 billion in trust preferred securities of banks, bank holding
      companies, insurance companies and other financial companies. In addition,
      at
      September 30, 2006, we managed $668.3 million in trust preferred securities
      for
      two CDOs, one of which we expect to close in the first quarter of fiscal 2007
      and one which we expect to close in a subsequent period. 

We
      own a
      50% interest in an entity that manages eight Trapeza CDO issuers and a 33.33%
      interest in another entity that manages two Trapeza CDO issuers. We also own
      a
      50% interest in the general partners of the limited partnerships that own the
      equity interests of five Trapeza CDO issuers. We also have invested as a limited
      partner in each of these limited partnerships. 

We
      derive
      revenues from our Trapeza operations through base and incentive management
      and
      administration fees. We also receive distributions on amounts we have invested
      in limited partnerships. Management fees, including incentive fees vary by CDO
      issuer, but have ranged from between 0.25% and 0.60% of the aggregate principal
      balance of the collateral held by the CDO issuers of which a portion is
      subordinated. These fees are also shared with our co-sponsors. We are also
      entitled to incentive distributions in four of the partnerships we manage.

Other
      Company Sponsored Partnerships   

We
      sponsored, structured and currently
      manage three affiliated partnerships for individual and institutional investors
      holding approximately $20.7 in investments in regional domestic banks. We derive
      revenues from these operations through an annual management fee, based on 2.0%
      of equity. We also have invested as the general partner of these partnerships
      and may receive a carried interest of up to 20% upon meeting specific investor
      return rates. 

23 

We
      have
      also sponsored, structured and currently manage another affiliated partnership
      organized as a hedge fund, holding approximately $9.3 million of RMBS and $27.8
      million of bank loans at September 30, 2006. We derive revenues from this
      partnership through base and incentive management fees. Base management fees
      are
      calculated monthly at 1/12   th   
      of 2% of
      the partnership s net assets.      Incentive
      management fees are calculated annually at 20% of cumulative annual net profits.
      We also have invested as a limited partner in this partnership.  

The
      following
      table sets forth certain information relating to the revenues recognized and
      costs and expenses incurred in our financial fund management operations (in
      thousands): 

Fees
      and/or reimbursements that we receive vary by transaction and, accordingly,
      there may be significant variations in the revenues we recognize from our
      financial fund management operations from period to period. 

Year
      Ended September 30, 2006 Compared to Year Ended September 30,
      2005   

Revenues
      from our financial fund management operations increased $14.9 million (93%)
      to
      $30.8 million in fiscal 2006 from $15.9 million in fiscal 2005.  We
      attribute the increase to the following: 

a
                $5.0 million increase in fund management fees, primarily from the
                following: 

- 

a
                $4.8 million increase in collateral management fees principally caused
                by
                the completion of eight new CDOs coupled with a full year of collateral
                management fees for two previously completed
                CDOs; 

- 

a
                $1.1 million increase in management fees as a result of four
                company-sponsored unconsolidated partnerships that commenced operations
                between June 2005 and February
                2006; 

These
      increases were partially offset by: 

- 

a
                $205,000 increase in the Company s share of expenses for Trapeza Capital
                Management LLC;  

- 

a
                $335,000 decrease in reimbursed expenses. Fiscal 2005 included a
                reimbursement received in connection with the formation of Trapeza
                CDO
                VII. No such expense reimbursements were received in fiscal 2006;
                and 

- 

a
                $379,000 decrease related to a fee paid in connection with the assignment
                of securities on a related warehouse facility during fiscal 2005.
                No such
                fees were earned during fiscal
                2006; 

a
                $6.2 million increase in interest income on loans held for investment
                resulting from the consolidation of four Apidos CDO issuers while
                they
                were accumulating assets on warehouse facilities.  In December 2005
                and September 2006, the assets and liabilities of these issuers were
                removed from our consolidated financial statements upon the execution
                of
                the CDO transactions;   

24 

a
                $2.3 million increase in RCC management fees and equity compensation,
                consisting of a $1.8 million increase in management fees and a $557,000
                increase in equity compensation. RCC commenced operations in March
                2005;

a
                $579,000 increase in revenues from our limited and general partner
                interests, primarily from the
                following: 

- 

a
                $1.2 million increase in our earnings from unconsolidated partnerships
                we
                have sponsored; offset in part by 

- 

a
                $644,000 decrease in net unrealized appreciation in the book value
                of
                securities and swap agreements to reflect current market
                value; 

a
                $576,000 increase in our earnings in unconsolidated CDOs primarily
                as a
                result of our investment in six new CDO issuers we sponsored during
                fiscal
                2006; and 

a
                $283,000 increase in interest income on ABS resulting from the interest
                spread earned on assets accumulating with a third party through a
                warehouse facility based on the terms of the warehousing
                agreement. 

Costs
      and
      expenses of our financial fund management operations increased $2.0 million
      (22%) for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005.  We attribute the
      increases to the following: 

a
                $1.4 million increase in general and administrative expenses, primarily
                from the following: 

- 

a
                $4.3 million increase in wages and benefits as a result of the addition
                of
                personnel in response to the growth in our assets under
                management; 

- 

a
                $551,000 increase in financial software programs and publications
                as a
                result of the growth of our assets under management;
                and 

- 

a
                $703,000 increase in other operating expenses, including insurance,
                rent
                allocations and other expenses related to the additional
                personnel. 

Theses
      increases were partially offset by: 

- 

a
                $2.6 million increase in reimbursed expenses from our Trapeza, Ischus,
                and
                Apidos operations;  

- 

a
                $1.1 million decrease in RCC start-up costs, which commenced operations
                in
                the second quarter of fiscal 2005; and

- 

a
                $446,000 decrease in professional and recruiting fees principally
                due to
                the expiration of a consulting
                agreement. 

a
                $259,000 decrease in expenses of consolidated partnerships, primarily
                professional fees.  There were no such expenses in fiscal
                2006. 

Year
      Ended September 30, 2005 Compared to Year Ended September 30,
      2004   

Revenues
      from our financial fund management operations increased $8.4 million (110%)
      to
      $15.9 million in fiscal 2005 from $7.6 million in fiscal 2004.  We
      attribute the increase to the following: 

a
                $2.4 million increase in fund management fees resulting primarily
                from a
                $2.1 million increase in collateral management fees principally caused
                by
                the completion of two new CDOs coupled with a full year of collateral
                management fees for three previously completed CDOs;

a
                $744,000 increase in interest income on loans resulting from the
                consolidation of an Apidos CDO issuer in our financial statements
                while it
                accumulated assets through a warehouse facility;

a
                $3.2 million increase in income from RCC as follows:

- 

a
                $1.4 million increase in management fees;
                and 

25 

- 

a
                $1.8 million increase in equity compensation as a result of the formation
                of RCC, for which we were granted 345,000 shares of RCC restricted
                common
                stock and options to purchase 651,666 common shares of RCC at an
                exercise
                price of $15.00 per share.  

a
                $2.2 million increase in our earnings from the SFF partnerships related
                to
                interest income on CDO investments; 

a
                $417,000 decrease in other revenue resulting primarily from the
                following: 

- 

a
                $1.0 million decrease in net reimbursement fees.  Fees were accrued
                in fiscal 2004 in anticipation of the completion of two Trapeza
                CDOs.  No such fees were accrued in fiscal 2005.  This decrease
                was partially offset by 

-      
        a
      $623,000 increase in consulting and advisory fees. 

Costs and expenses of our financial fund management operations increased $6.7
      million (284%) for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004.  We attribute
      the increases to the following: 

a
                $5.7 million increase in general and administrative expenses.  The
                increase resulted primarily from the
                following: 

- 

a
                $4.5 million increase in wages and benefits as a result of the addition
                of
                personnel to manage our expanding portfolio of trust preferred securities,
                ABS, bank loans, and private equity
                investments; 

- 

a
                $1.1 million increase in start-up costs relating to RCC, which commenced
                operations on March 8, 2005. 

- 

a
                $525,000 increase in financial software programs and publications
                as a
                result of the implementation of new asset management systems in response
                to our growing assets under
                management; 

- 

a
                $444,000 increase in other operating expenses, primarily from increased
                insurance costs, rent allocations and other general and administrative
                expenses related to the addition of personnel;
                and 

a
                $757,000 increase in equity compensation expense related to the transfer
                of 289,000 restricted shares of RCC held by RCM to members of management;
                and 

Results
      of Operations: Real Estate  

In
      real estate, we manage three classes of assets: 

commercial
                real estate debt, principally first mortgage debt, whole loans, mortgage
                participations, subordinated notes, mezzanine debt and related commercial
                real estate securities; 

real
                estate investment limited partnerships, limited liability company
                and TIC
                property interests; and 

real
                estate loans, owned assets and ventures, known collectively as our
                legacy
                portfolio. 

26 

During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, our real estate operations were affected
      by
      three principal trends or events:  

the
                continued development of our commercial real estate debt
                platform; 

growth
                in our real estate business through the sponsorship of five real
                estate
                investment partnerships and the sponsorship of four TIC property
                interests; and 

our
                selective resolution of the loans in our legacy portfolio through
                repayments, sales, refinancings and
                restructurings. 

We
      support our real estate investment partnerships by making long-term limited
      partnership investments. In addition, from time-to-time, we make bridge
      investments in the underlying partnerships and TIC property interests to
      facilitate acquisitions. We record losses on these equity method investments
      primarily as a result of depreciation and amortization expense recorded by
      the
      partnerships and TIC property interests. As additional investors are admitted
      to
      the partnerships and TIC programs, we transfer our bridge investment to new
      investors at our original cost and recognize a gain approximately equal to
      the
      previously recognized loss. 

In the twelve months ended September 30, 2006, we resolved loans with a combined
      book value of $43.9 million, realizing $42.1 million in net proceeds. We reduced
      the number of loans in our portfolio from twelve at September 30, 2005 to nine
      at September 30, 2006 through the repayment of seven loans, offset by the
      addition of four loans in conjunction with the resolution of an existing loan,
      two ventures and one owned asset. As a result, the face value of the assets
      we
      manage in our legacy portfolio, principally outstanding loans receivable,
      decreased from $293.9 million at September 30, 2005 to $76.1 million at
      September 30, 2006.  

The
      following table sets forth information relating to the revenues recognized
      and
      costs and expenses incurred in our real estate operations (in
      thousands): 

Gains
      on
      resolutions of loans, FIN 46 assets and other real estate assets   (if
      any)
      and the amount of fees received (if any) vary from transaction to transaction.
      There have been in the past, and we expect that in the future, that there will
      be significant period-to-period variations in our gains on resolutions and
      fee
      income. Moreover, it is anticipated that gains on resolutions will likely
      decrease in the future as we complete the resolution of our legacy
      portfolio. 

27 

Year
        Ended September 30, 2006 Compared to Year Ended September 30,
        2005   

Revenues from our real estate operations increased $5.9 million (33%) from
        $17.8
        million in fiscal 2005 to $23.7 million in fiscal 2006. We attribute the
        increase to the following: 

a
                $6.7 million increase in fee income related to the purchase and third
                party financing of properties through the sponsorship of real estate
                investment partnerships and TIC property
                interests; 

a
                $1.0 million increase in management fees from
                RCC; 

a
                $1.1 million increase in management fees from the additional properties
                acquired subsequent to September 30,
                2005; 

a
                $1.3 million decrease in our share of the operating losses of our
                unconsolidated real estate investments accounted for on the equity
                method
                due principally to a prepayment penalty on the refinancing of an
                investment property recorded in fiscal 2005;
                and 

a
                $1.4 million increase in net gains (including $1.7 million of previously
                recorded losses) recognized on our sale of TIC property interests
                in
                fiscal 2006. There were no sales of TIC property interests in fiscal
                2005. 

These increases were partially offset by the following: 

a
                $655,000 decrease in FIN 46 revenues and rental property income in
                fiscal
                2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The decrease is primarily related
                to our
                foreclosure on a hotel property during fiscal 2005. As a result of
                the
                foreclosure, we included an additional two months of operating income
                in our results for fiscal 2005;  

a
                $3.5 million decrease in gains on resolutions of loans, FIN 46 assets
                and
                real estate assets. In fiscal 2006, we received $4.0 million plus
                a
                $200,000 note receivable from the sale of 19.99% of our 50% interest
                in a
                real estate venture, resulting in a gain of $4.2 million. Additionally,
                we
                resolved one loan with a book value of $2.5 million, recognizing
                a gain of
                $82,000. During fiscal 2005, a partnership in which we had owned
                a 50%
                equity interest (a 30% interest in fiscal 2006) refinanced its mortgage.
                We received net proceeds from the refinancing of $13.6 million, which
                was
                $6.3 million in excess of the recorded value of our interest. We
                recognized the $6.3 million as a gain. In addition, during fiscal
                2005, we
                foreclosed on a loan that was classified as a FIN 46 asset. In connection
                with the foreclosure, we acquired a note payable for $540,000 that
                was
                recorded as a FIN 46 liability in the amount of $1.6 million; as
                a result,
                we recognized a gain of $1.0 million. We also recognized an aggregate
                gain
                of $792,000 on the sale of two investments in our real estate investment
                partnerships during fiscal year 2005; and 

a
                $407,000 decrease in interest and accreted discount income resulting
                from
                the cessation of accretion on one loan offset by the interest accrued
                on
                three new loans acquired during fiscal 2006 as a result of asset
                resolutions. 

Costs
        and expenses of our real
        estate operations were $12.1 million for fiscal 2006, an increase of $2.2
        million (22  %)
        as
        compared to  
        fiscal
        2005.      We
        attribute the increase to the following:  

a
                $3.4 million increase in general and administrative expenses primarily
                due
                to the following: 

-    
             
                a
                $2.1 million increase in wages and benefits as a result of the addition
                of
                personnel primarily to support the development of our debt platform
                and
                the combined growth of our investment partnerships and TIC
                programs; 

-    
             
                a
                $757,000 net increase in commission expense and offering and
                organizational reimbursements due to the higher level of sales of
                real
                estate investment programs; and 

-    
             
                a
                $480,000 increase in both property management expenses related to
                real
                estate investment partnerships and $300,000 of travel costs due to
                the
                increased acquisition activity associated with managing our real
                estate
                investment programs. 

28 

This
        increase was partially offset by: 

a
                $1.2 million decrease in FIN 46 operating expenses primarily related
                to
                the foreclosed hotel property and the resulting additional two months
                of
                operating expenses in fiscal 2005.  

Year
        Ended September 30, 2005 Compared to Year Ended September 30,
        2004   

Revenues
        from our real estate operations increased $7.3 million (69%) from $10.5 million
        in fiscal 2004 to $17.8 million in fiscal 2005. We attribute the increase
        to the
        following: 

a
                $1.4 million increase in FIN 46 revenues, primarily the additional
                two
                months of operating income related to the foreclosed hotel property
                in
                fiscal 2005;  

$659,000
                increase in management fees due to additional properties
                acquired; 

a
                $2.7 million increase in fee income related to the purchase and third
                party financing of properties through the sponsorship of investment
                partnerships and TIC property interests;
                and 

a
                $7.3 million increase in gains on resolutions of loans, FIN 46 assets
                and
                real estate assets. A partnership in which we owned a 50% equity
                interest
                refinanced its mortgage. We received net proceeds of $13.6 million
                from
                this refinancing and recorded a $6.3 million gain representing the
                excess
                of the recorded value of our interest. In addition, during fiscal
                2005, we
                foreclosed on a loan that was classified as a FIN 46 asset on our
                consolidated balance sheet. In connection with the foreclosure, we
                acquired a note payable for $540,000 that was recorded on our books
                as a
                FIN 46 liability in the amount of $1.6 million; as a result we recognized
                a gain of $1.0 million. The foreclosed asset is recorded as an investment
                in real estate at September 30, 2005. We recognized an aggregate
                gain of
                $792,000 on the sale of two investments in our real estate investment
                partnerships during fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2004, we resolved five
                loans
                having an aggregate book value of $5.0 million for $5.1 million,
                recognizing a net gain of $49,000. We also received $3.4 million
                for the
                sale of our investment in one venture resulting in a gain of
                $841,000. 

These
        increases were partially offset by the following: 

a
                $1.4 million decrease in interest and accreted discount income resulting
                from the resolution of six loans since fiscal 2004 and the cessation
                of
                accretion on one loan as of July 2005. Approximately $1.0 million
                of the
                decrease related to one loan resolved during fiscal 2004; $226,000
                of the
                decrease related to the cessation of accretion;
                and 

a
                $3.4 million decrease in our share of the operating results of our
                unconsolidated real estate investments accounted for on the equity
                method.
                The majority of the decrease was due to costs of approximately $1.8
                million associated with the refinancing of a first mortgage on a
                property
                in which we had a 50% interest. Additionally, $663,000 of the decrease
                related to losses incurred through equity investments in our real
                estate
                investment partnerships made subsequent to fiscal 2004. The loss
                from an
                equity investment which was converted from a loan during fiscal 2004
                contributed another $626,000 of the
                decrease. 

Costs and expenses of our real estate operations were $9.9 million for fiscal
        2005, an increase of $3.0 million (43  %)
        as
        compared to  
        fiscal
        2004.      We
        attribute the increase to the following:  

an
                increase of $1.1 million in real estate general and administrative
                expenses primarily from an increase in wages and benefits as a result
                of
                the addition of personnel in our real estate subsidiary to manage
                our
                existing portfolio of commercial loans and real estate and to expand
                our
                real estate operations through the sponsorship of real estate investment
                programs; and 

a
                $1.8 million increase in FIN 46 operating expenses primarily related
                to
                the foreclosed hotel property and the adjustment to current reporting,
                resulting in an additional two months of operating expenses in fiscal
                2005.  

29 

Results
      of Operations: Commercial Finance  

During
      fiscal 2006, our commercial finance originations were $423.6 million compared
      to
      $250.8 million during fiscal 2005, increasing our assets under management to
      $612.7 million as compared to $339.7 million at September 30, 2005, an increase
      of $273.0 million (80%). Our commercial finance origination growth was driven
      by
      our continued growth in new and existing vendor programs, the expansion of
      our
      sales staff and new commercial finance products. Asset-backed loans made to
      other commercial finance companies was a new product we introduced during fiscal
      2006. These secured loans are collateralized by leases and loans made to small
      and mid-sized companies and range in size from $5.0 to $15.0 million. These
      loan
      originations are typically sold to RCC. 

In
      December 2004, we commenced an offering of up to $60.0 million of limited
      partnership interests in our second investment partnership, LEAF Fund II. On
      April 14, 2005, we sold the required number of units to break escrow and
      commenced operations. LEAF Fund II completed its offering on October 13, 2006
      having raised $60.0 million of capital from investors.  

On
      July
      31, 2006, LEAF Financial entered into a new $150.0 million revolving credit
      facility which among other things, expanded LEAF s borrowing capacity from $90.0
      million, reduced the interest rate, extended the termination date to July 31,
      2009, and reduced our corporate guarantee to $75.0 million. The agreement
      includes performance criteria that if met, will remove the guarantee
      completely. 

On
      September 28, 2006, LEAF Fund II purchased the ML portfolios, which were
      serviced by LEAF, for approximately $191.7 million and the ML agreement was
      terminated. LEAF will continue to act as servicer for this portfolio on behalf
      of LEAF II and will continue to receive fees similar to those earned from ML.
      Additionally, LEAF Financial will continue to originate and service tax-exempt
      leases on behalf of ML.  

The
      following table sets forth information related to our commercial finance assets
      managed on behalf of our investment partnerships, RCC, ML and ourselves (in
      millions): 

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, we managed approximately 15,000 leases and notes that had
      an
      average original finance value of $53,000 with an average term of 54 months.
      The
      following table sets forth certain information related to the types of
      businesses in which our commercial finance assets are used and the concentration
      by asset type of our portfolio under management as of September 30,
      2006: 

Lessee
                business  

Equipment
                under management  

Services 

49 

% 

Medical 

26 

% 

Finance/Insurance 

15 

% 

Computers 

18 

% 

Retail
                trade services 

9 

% 

Industrial 

15 

% 

Manufacturing
                services 

8 

% 

Asset
                based lending 

14 

% 

Transportation/Communication 

5 

% 

Office
                equipment 

5 

% 

Wholesaler
                trade 

3 

% 

Garment
                care 

4 

% 

Construction 

3 

% 

Restaurant
                equipment 

4 

% 

Agriculture 

3 

% 

Software 

3 

% 

Other 

5 

% 

Communication 

3 

% 

100 

% 

Other 

8 

% 

100 

% 

30 

The
      revenues from our commercial finance operations consist primarily of finance
      revenues from leases and notes held by us prior to being sold; asset acquisition
      fees which are earned when commercial finance assets are sold to one of our
      investment partnerships and asset management fees earned over the life of the
      lease or loan after it is sold. The following table sets forth certain
      information relating to the revenues recognized and costs and expenses incurred
      in our commercial finance operations (in thousands):  

Year
      Ended September 30, 2006 Compared to Year Ended September 30,
      2005   

Revenues
      in our commercial finance operations increased $10.5 million (78%) to $23.8
      million in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. We attribute the increase
      to
      the following:  

a
                $4.0 million increase in finance revenues primarily due to an increase
                of
                $172.8 million in lease and note originations and the increase in
                our
                revolving credit facility which allowed us to hold more finance assets
                on
                our balance sheet; 

a
                $5.0 million increase in fund and RCC management fees directly related
                to
                our increase in assets under management;
                and 

a
                $748,000 increase in asset acquisition fees. Our increase in lease
                originations supported our increased sales to our affiliated partnerships,
                RCC and ML for which we receive acquisition
                fees. 

Costs
      and
      expenses from our commercial finance operations increased $5.6 million (63%)
      for
      fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. We attribute this increase to the
      following:  

a
                $1.6 million increase in general and administrative expenses principally
                due to the following:  

- 

a
                $710,000 increase in professional fees directly related to the overall
                expansion of our operations; 

- 

a
                $307,000 increase in travel and entertainment expenses resulting
                from the
                expansion of our business development
                activities. 

Year
      Ended September 30, 2005 Compared to Year Ended September 30,
      2004   

Revenues
      in our commercial finance operations increased $6.2 million (88%) to $13.4
      million in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. We attribute the increase
      to
      the following:  

a
                $2.4 million increase in finance revenues primarily due to an increase
                of
                $101.3 million in lease originations;

a
                $2.3 million increase in fund and RCC management fees directly related
                to
                our increase in assets under management;
                and 

a
                $1.5 million increase in asset acquisition fees. The increase in
                lease
                originations supported our increased sales to our affiliated partnerships
                and ML for which we receive acquisition
                fees. 

31 

Costs
      and expenses from our commercial finance operations increased $1.1 million
      for
      fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. We attribute this increase to the
      following:  

a
                $2.4 million increase in wages and benefits due to additional personnel
                for the further expansion of our operations;
                and 

a
                $1.3 million decrease in general and administrative expenses due
                to the
                following:  

- 

a
                $1.1 million decrease in offering and organization expenses related
                to our
                affiliated partnerships;  

- 

a
                $287,000 decrease in liquidation expense as a result of a one time
                charge
                in 2004 relating to the dissolution of other affiliated partnerships;

- 

a
                $340,000 decrease in expenses reimbursed to us by our investment
                partnerships; and 

- 

a
                $565,000 increase in other expenses resulting from the expansion
                of our
                business development activities and the overall expansion of our
                operations. 

Results
      of Operations: Other Costs and Expenses and Other Income (Expense)

Year
      Ended September 30, 2006 Compared to Year Ended September 30,
      2005   

General
      and administrative costs were $9.8 million for fiscal 2006, an increase of
      $1.4
      million (18%) as compared to $8.4 million for fiscal 2005. We attribute the
      increase to the following: 

a
                $870,000 increase in wages and benefits due principally to the
                following: 

- 

a
                $1.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense due to
                our
                implementation of FAS 123R.   Effective
                October 1, 2005, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
                Standards ( SFAS ) 123R,    Accounting
                for Stock-Based Compensation,  as revised ( SFAS 123R ),   resulting
                in a change in our method of recognizing share-based compensation
                expense.
                Specifically, we now record compensation expense for our employee
                stock
                options. Had we expensed employee stock options for fiscal 2005,
                we
                estimate that share-based compensation expense would have increased
                by
                $3.2 million. For additional information, see Note 2 to notes to
                consolidated financial statements;
                and 

- 

a
                $380,000 increase in wages and benefits due to increased headcount
                to
                service our increased asset management operations; partially offset
                by

- 

a
                $720,000 reduction of expense based on an annual actuarial adjustment
                to
                the supplemental employment retirement plan for our retired Chief
                Executive Officer (and current Chairman) to reflect the increase
                in
                investment values in the plan compared to the remaining liability;
                and 

a
                $308,000 increase in accounting and auditing fees in conjunction
                with our
                expanded operations.  

Depreciation
      and amortization expense was $3.1 million for fiscal 2006, an increase of
      $855,000 (39%) as compared to $2.2 million for fiscal 2005. We incurred
      increased depreciation of $624,000 on leasehold improvements, equipment and
      furnishings for the renovation of existing offices as well as newly opened
      offices. In addition, depreciation expense from operating leases increased
      by
      $231,000 (33%) in correlation to our increase in lease rental income of $239,000
      (29%). 

Interest
      expense was $10.1 million for fiscal 2006, an increase of $7.3 million (260%)
      as
      compared to $2.8 million for fiscal 2005. The expanded use of our secured
      warehouse credit facilities to purchase loans held for investment by our
      financial fund management business resulted in an increase in interest expense
      of $4.6 million. Additionally, increased draws on our commercial finance credit
      facilities to fund the growth of our commercial finance loan originations and
      our entry into asset-backed lending along with higher interest rates on
      borrowings caused an additional increase in interest expense of $2.3 million.

For
      the
      years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, our operations reflected a charge
      of
      $1.8 million and $1.4 million, respectively, to earnings for minority interests,
      principally for our partners  share of the SFF partnerships. Fiscal 2005
      includes an additional quarter of expense upon the consolidation of these
      entities which had previously been recorded on a one-quarter lag. 

32 

Other
      income, net was $5.2 million for fiscal 2006, an increase of $604,000 (13%)
      as
      compared to $4.6 million in fiscal 2005. The principal components of other
      income, net, are as follows: 

in
                fiscal 2002, we charged operations $1.0 million, which was the amount
                of
                our maximum exposure relating to the settlement of a lawsuit, in
                which one
                of our insurance carriers refused to participate. We thereafter filed
                an
                action seeking recovery on our policy with that carrier. In the second
                quarter of fiscal 2006, we prevailed in our action against the carrier,
                received a $200,000 reimbursement and reversed the $1.0 million
                accrual; 

in
                the first quarter of fiscal 2005, we received a $1.4 million settlement
                on
                a claim against one of our directors  and officers  liability insurance
                carriers; and 

during
                fiscal 2005, we recorded gains totaling $1.5 million from the sale
                of the
                remaining RAIT Investment Trust, or RAIT, shares that we
                held. 

Our
      effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing
      operations before taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change) decreased
      to
      16% in fiscal 2006 from 40% in fiscal 2005. The decrease in our effective tax
      rate reflects the tax planning strategies that we initiated in fiscal 2006
      offset, in part, by increased state income taxes in conjunction with the
      increased profitability of our operating segments. In connection with the
      implementation of these tax planning strategies, the tax rate for fiscal 2006
      reflected the reversal of $39.5 million of a previously recorded valuation
      allowance against state net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs which resulted
      in a tax benefit of approximately $3.9 million. In addition, we recorded a
      deferred tax asset of $1.1 million associated with approximately $16.3 million
      of local net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, for which we had previously
      believed would not be realized prior to their statutory expiration date. 
Our effective tax rate, as adjusted to exclude the benefit from the change
      in
      the valuation allowance and recording the additional local deferred tax
      asset, would have been 39% for fiscal 2006. We expect our effective tax rate
      to
      be 40% in fiscal 2007. Future tax rates could change if estimates of taxable
      income change or if there are changes in our recorded NOLs or their related
      valuation allowances. 

Year
      Ended September 30, 2005 Compared to Year Ended September 30,
      2004   

General
      and administrative costs were $8.4 million for fiscal 2005, a decrease of $1.1
      million (11%) as compared to $9.4 million for fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2004,
      we
      incurred $1.7 million of costs in connection with the initial public offering
      and spin-off of Atlas America, primarily resulting from a $1.4 million charge
      related to the accelerated retirement of our former Chief Executive Officer.
      For
      fiscal 2005, $2.7 million of spin-off costs were reflected in discontinued
      operations. In addition, our legal fees decreased $1.1 million to $200,000
      in
      fiscal 2005 from $1.3 million in fiscal 2004 due to the resolution of lawsuits.
      The decreases were, in part, offset by additional accounting and consulting
      fees
      of $1.5 million as a result of our compliance with Section 404 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our provision for possible losses decreased to
      $149,000 for fiscal 2005 from $642,000 for fiscal 2004 relative to the continued
      resolution of our legacy portfolio. The remainder of the variance was comprised
      of various increased corporate costs and expenditures, primarily payroll and
      insurance in conjunction with our increased asset management
      operations. 

Depreciation
      and amortization expense was $2.2 million for fiscal 2005, an increase of $1.0
      million (83%) as compared to $1.2 million for fiscal 2004. This increase was
      principally due to our commercial finance operations which increased its net
      operating lease assets owned to $5.2 million at September 30, 2005 from $510,000
      at September 30, 2004. 

33 

Interest
      expense was $2.8 million for fiscal 2005, a decrease of $1.2 million, as
      compared to $4.0 million for fiscal 2004. The decrease in interest expense
      for
      fiscal 2005 reflected a $1.4 million reduction of interest resulting from the
      redemption in fiscal 2004 of our 12% senior notes and a $1.1 million reduction
      due to repayment of debt related to our real estate operations. The decreases
      were offset by increased interest expense of $1.0 million related to increased
      draws on our commercial financing credit facilities as a result of our increased
      lease originations during fiscal 2005. In addition, our financial fund
      management operations incurred $443,000 of interest expense on a new warehouse
      line for acquiring bank loans.  

For fiscal 2005, our operations reflected a $1.4 million charge for minority
      interests in the SFF partnerships. As of September 30, 2004, these entities
      were
      not consolidated.  

Other
      income, net, was $4.6 million for fiscal 2005, a decrease of $4.6 million,
      as
      compared to $9.2 million for fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2005 and 2004, we sold
      110,637 and 782,700 shares, respectively, of RAIT and recorded gains of $1.5
      million and $9.5 million, respectively. Dividend income from RAIT decreased
      by
      $904,000 to $11,000 for fiscal 2005 from $915,000 for fiscal 2004 as a result
      of
      these sales. As of September 30, 2005, all shares of RAIT had been sold. Fiscal
      2004 reflected charges of $2.0 million related to the write-off of deferred
      finance costs and the premium paid on the redemption of our 12% senior notes.
      In
      fiscal 2005, we received $1.4 million related to the settlement of a claim
      against our directors  and officers  liability insurance carrier.  

On
      June
      30, 2005, we distributed our remaining 10.7 million shares of Atlas America
      to
      our stockholders in the form of a tax-free dividend.  

Discontinued
      Operations  

In
      accordance with SFAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long
      Lived Assets," our decision to dispose of certain entities has resulted in
      the
      presentation of these operations as discontinued (see Note 18 of notes to
      consolidated financial statements). 

Spin-off
      of Atlas America  

Discontinued
      operations reflects the June 30, 2005 distribution of our remaining 10.7 million
      shares of Atlas America to our stockholders. The distribution decreased our
      stockholders  equity by $91.4 million. Due to the spin-off, we no longer
      consolidate Atlas America in our financial statements and accordingly, their
      income (loss) from operations including disposal costs, net of tax, of
      ($47,000), $16.5 million and $19.8 million for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively, was reflected in discontinued operations in our consolidated
      statements of income. 

Resolution
      of Real Estate Assets Held for Sale  

The
      activity in the number of real estate investments held for sale, including
      FIN
      46 entities and owned properties, were as follows: 

34 

The
      discontinued operations of our real estate segment were as follows (in
      thousands): 

Cumulative
      Effect of Change in Accounting Principle  

Historically,
      we have presented our equity pickup in the Trapeza entities on a one-quarter
      lag
      as permitted under generally accepted accounting principles. Improvements in
      the
      timeliness and availability of financial data from the Trapeza entities have
      allowed us to report our earnings in these entities on a current basis going
      forward. As a result of this change, our equity in earnings of the Trapeza
      entities of $1.4 million, net of tax of $983,000 for the three months ended
      September 30, 2005 has been reflected as of October 1, 2005 in the consolidated
      statements of income as a cumulative change in accounting
      principle. 

Liquidity
      and Capital Resources  

General.   
      During
      the past five years, our major sources of liquidity, exclusive of the cash
      generated by the operations of Atlas America, have been from the resolution
      of
      our real estate legacy portfolio, borrowings under our existing credit
      facilities and sales of our RAIT shares. We have employed these funds
      principally to expand our specialized asset management operations including
      our
      sponsorship and investment in RCC, repurchase our shares, reduce our outstanding
      debt and, in fiscal 2004, to redeem our senior notes. We expect to fund our
      asset management businesses from a combination of cash to be generated by
      operations, continued resolution of our legacy portfolio and expanded borrowings
      under our existing credit facilities.  

The
      following table sets forth our sources and uses of cash (in thousands):

Year
      Ended September 30, 2006 Compared to Year Ended September 30,
      2005   

We
      increased our cash balance by $7.3 million to $37.6 million at September 30,
      2006 from $30.4 million at September 30, 2005. Additionally, we held $8.1
      million and $5.0 million of cash in escrow accounts at September 30, 2006 and
      2005, respectively, which were reflected as restricted cash in our consolidated
      balance sheets. Our ratio of earnings from continuing operations before income
      taxes, minority interest and interest expense to fixed charges was 3.6 to 1.0
      for fiscal 2006 as compared to 9.9 to 1.0 for fiscal 2005. The decrease in
      this
      ratio primarily reflects the increase in interest expense as a result of the
      additional borrowings under our financial fund management and commercial finance
      credit facilities. Our ratio of debt to equity was 89% and 79% at September
      30,
      2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in the ratio for fiscal 2006 reflects
      our expanded utilization of and increase in our commercial finance credit
      facility at September 30, 2006. 

35 

Cash
      Flows from Operating Activities   .       Net
      cash
      used in the operating activities of continuing operations increased by $20.1
      million to $39.1 million of cash used for fiscal 2006 as compared to $19.0
      million of cash used for fiscal 2005, substantially as a result of the
      following: 

a
                $50.5 million increase in our commercial finance investments, reflecting
                the continued expansion of that segment; offset in part
                by 

a
                $15.6 million increase in cash provided primarily from operating
                assets
                and liabilities; and 

a
                $14.8 million increase in net income generated by our continuing
                operations, as adjusted for non-cash items; includes a $9.8 million
                decrease in income from discontinued operations, reflecting the nine
                months of operations of Atlas America included in fiscal
                2005. 

Cash
      Flows from Investing Activities.        Net
      cash
      used by the investing activities of our continuing operations increased by
      $10.8
      million for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005, primarily reflecting the
      additional utilization under our commercial finance credit
      facility. 

Cash
      Flows from Financing Activities.    Net
      cash
      provided by the financing activities of our continuing operations increased
      by
      $36.2 million for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. This increase in
      our
      cash flows principally reflects the following: 

an
                increase in our borrowings, net of repayments, of $60.6 million which
                principally involved the $45.4 million of additional net borrowings
                to
                fund our increased investments in our commercial finance operations,
                and
                $12.5 million in proceeds from the first mortgage we secured on a
                foreclosed hotel property. This increase was offset partially
                by; 

a
                $9.5 million increase in repurchases of our common stock as part
                of our
                Board-approved stock repurchase program;
                and 

a
                $5.7 million decrease in proceeds from the exercise of employee stock
                options, principally by the employees of Atlas America in conjunction
                with
                the spin-off of that subsidiary in June
                2005. 

Cash
      Retained by Entities Previously Consolidated.   
      As of
      December 31, 2005, we no longer consolidated two affiliated partnerships in
      our
      financial fund management segment that invest in regional banks due to a change
      in the rights of the limited partners to remove us as the general partner.
      Accordingly, the September 30, 2005 combined cash balance of these entities
      of
      $3.8 million was not reflected in our consolidated statement of cash flows
      for
      fiscal 2006. 

Cash
      Flows from Discontinued Operations.   
      Net cash
      provided by discontinued operations increased by $15.4 million for fiscal 2006
      as compared to fiscal 2005. We received $38.9 million principally from the
      sale
      of three FIN 46 assets during fiscal 2006, an increase of $32.9 million as
      compared to the $6.0 million of proceeds for fiscal 2005. This increase was
      offset, in part, by the $17.8 million decrease in cash flows generated from
      the
      operations of Atlas America for the nine months ended June 30,
      2005. 

Year
      Ended September 30, 2005 Compared to Year Ended September 30,
      2004   

We
      had
      $30.4 million in cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2005 compared to
      $39.9 million at September 30, 2004. In fiscal 2005, we had $5.0 million in
      cash
      held in escrow which is reflected as restricted cash. Our ratio of earnings
      from
      continuing operations before income taxes, minority interest and interest
      expense to fixed charges was 9.9 to 1.0 for fiscal 2005 as compared to 1.3
      to
      1.0 for fiscal 2004. The increase in this ratio reflects primarily the increase
      in cash distributions from equity investees as well as an increase in pre-tax
      income from continuing operations. Our ratio of debt to equity was 79% and
      17%
      at September 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in the ratio for
      fiscal 2005 principally reflects the additional debt borrowed under our
      financial fund management warehouse credit facility to fund our acquisition
      of
      loans held for investment. 

36 

Cash
      Flows from Operating Activities.    We
      increased our cash utilized in operations by $6.4 million to $19.0 million
      in
      fiscal 2005, substantially reflecting the following: 

$13.7
                million was used by operating assets, liabilities and taxes, including
                the
                $18.1 million of Atlas America net operating liabilities eliminated
                with
                the spin-off; and 

a
                $1.2 million increase in our investment in commercial finance; offset
                in
                part, by the 

$8.5
                million of cash generated by the increase in net income, as adjusted
                to
                reconcile net income to net cash from operating
                activities. 

Cash
      Flows from Investing Activities.        Our
      investing activities from continuing operations utilized $121.0 million more
      cash in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004, primarily as a result of the
      following: 

the
                proceeds from the resolution and/or refinancing of our legacy real
                estate
                investment portfolio produced $7.4 million of proceeds in fiscal
                2005,
                $19.0 million less than the $26.4 million in fiscal 2004;

we
                increased our investments in real estate by $10.1 million, including
                two
                TIC property interests;  

we
                placed $5.0 million in escrow as required by our financial fund secured
                warehouse credit facility; and 

a
                $11.7 million reduction in funds provided from the decrease in other
                assets; offset, in part, by 

a
                $9.4 million increase in equity
                distributions. 

Cash
      Flows from Financing Activities.    Net
      cash
      provided by our financing activities from continuing operations increased by
      $107.1 million for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. This increase in
      our
      cash flows principally reflected the following: 

an
                increase of $99.0 million in borrowings, net of repayments. Fiscal
                2004
                net borrowings were reduced by significant repayments, including
                the $54.0
                million redemption of the remaining outstanding 12% senior notes
                and the
                $28.3 million repayment of one FIN 46 mortgage
                loan; 

a
                $10.4 million increase in investor contributions to our financial
                fund
                management entities; and 

$5.2
                million of additional proceeds from the exercise of employee stock
                options. 

These
      increases were offset, in part, by the following: 

$5.2
                million of cash used to repurchase 283,080 of our shares as part
                of our
                Board-approved stock repurchase
                program; 

a
                $1.4 million increase in distributions paid to minority holders;
                and 

Cash
      Flows from Discontinued Operations.   
      Net cash
      provided by discontinued operations decreased by $11.6 million for fiscal 2005
      as compared to fiscal 2004. This decrease of cash from discontinued operations
      principally reflects the $6.0 million of net proceeds received in fiscal 2005
      from the resolution of two real estate investments and the operating results of
      seven real estate properties held for sale as compared to the resolution of
      six
      real estate investments and the operating results of 13 real estate properties
      held for sale in fiscal 2004 generating $42.8 million of proceeds. This decrease
      of $36.8 million was offset, in part, by a $25.4 million increase in cash
      generated from operations of Atlas America during the nine months of fiscal
      2005
      as compared to fiscal 2004.  

37 

Capital
      Requirements  

The
      amount of funds we must commit to investments in our financial fund management,
      real estate and commercial finance operations depends upon the level of funds
      raised through investment programs managed by our operating segments. We believe
      cash flows from operations, cash and other working capital and amounts available
      under our credit facilities will be adequate to fund our contribution to these
      programs. However, the amount of funds we raise and the level of our investments
      will vary in the future depending on market conditions. 

Dividends  

In
      the
      years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we paid cash dividends of $4.3
      million, $3.5 million and $2.6 million, respectively. We have paid quarterly
      cash dividends since August 1995. Additionally, in fiscal 2005, we distributed
      our 10.7 million shares of Atlas America to our stockholders in the form of
      a
      tax-free distribution valued at $91.4 million. 

The
      determination of the amount of future cash dividends, if any, is at the sole
      discretion of our board of directors and will depend on the various factors
      affecting our financial condition and other matters the board of directors
      deems
      relevant.  

Contractual
      Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments      

The
      following tables summarize our contractual obligations and other commercial
      commitments at September 30, 2006 (in thousands): 

(2)    
               
                  Excludes
                  $69.9 million related to credit facilities that will be transferred
                  upon
                  the execution of the CDO transactions and will not have to be repaid
                  by
                  us. 

38 

In
      connection with the sale of a real estate loan in March 2006, we have agreed
      that in exchange for the current property owner relinquishing certain critical
      control rights, we will make payments to the current property owner under
      certain stipulated circumstances, including the sale or foreclosure of the
      property or a subsequent resale of the loan. A payment initially in the amount
      of $2.6 million, increasing by $16,234 per month to a maximum of $3.6 million,
      would be due upon the occurrence of specified events. In addition, the current
      property owner has the right to receive collateral as security for this
      obligation equal to or greater than 105% of the value of the obligation upon
      the
      occurrence of certain specified events or if our net worth falls below $80.0
      million. Our obligation runs through December 31, 2014. In addition, we have
      agreed to partially indemnify the purchaser of the loan for a portion of the
      difference between ordinary income tax rates and capital gain rates on accrued
      interest on the note between the date of sale of the loan in March 2006 and
      December 31, 2011.  

In
      March
      2006, we entered into a warehouse agreement with JP Morgan Securities, Inc.
      which provides for guarantees by the Company on the first $2.3 million of losses
      on a portfolio of bank loans. This guarantee, secured by a $1.2 million cash
      deposit, expires upon the closing of the associated CDO which is expected in
      the
      second quarter of fiscal 2007. 

In
      June
      2006, we entered into a warehouse agreement with Credit Suisse International
      which provides for guarantees by us on the first $16.5 million of losses on
      a
      portfolio of bank loans. This guarantee, secured by a $3.8 million cash deposit,
      expires upon the closing of the associated CDO which is expected in the second
      quarter of fiscal 2007. 

In
      August
      2006, we entered into a warehouse agreement with Credit Suisse which provides
      for guarantees by us on the first $10.0 million of losses and 8% of the balance
      on a portfolio of bank loans. This guarantee increases to $15.0 million and
      8%
      of the warehouse balance of the portfolio of loans if another CDO transaction
      is
      not priced by February 7, 2007. This guarantee, secured by a $2.5 million cash
      deposit, expires upon the closing of the associated CDO which is expected in
      the
      fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. 

Five
      real
      estate investment partnerships in which we have general partner interests have
      obtained senior lien financing with respect to the thirteen properties they
      acquired. In addition, four TIC investment programs which we have sponsored
      have
      obtained senior lien financing with respect to four acquired properties. These
      senior liens are with recourse only to the properties securing them subject
      to
      certain standard exceptions, which we have guaranteed. These guarantees expire
      as the related indebtedness is paid down over the next ten years. In addition,
      property owners have obtained senior lien financing with respect to four of
      our
      loans. The senior liens are with recourse only to the properties securing them
      subject to certain standard exceptions, which we have guaranteed. These
      guarantees expire as the related indebtedness is paid down over the next ten
      years.  

We
      guarantee one of our real estate partners against any losses, costs or damages
      that it may incur due to any fraud, bankruptcy, material misrepresentation
      or
      limited other intentional bad acts by us and terminates upon the earlier
      occurrence of (i) either we or our partner ceases to be member of such
      partnership or (ii) termination of the operating agreement of the partnership.
      Our maximum liability on the guarantee is $1.1 million. 

As
        of
        September 30, 2006, we do not believe it is probable that any payments will
        be
        required under any of our indemnifications and accordingly, no liabilities
        for
        these obligations have been recorded in the consolidated financial statements.

As a specialized asset manager, we sponsor investment funds in which we may
        make
        an equity investment along with outside investors. This equity investment
        is
        generally based on a percentage of funds raised and varies among investment
        programs.  

We
        are a
        party to employment agreements with certain executives that provide for
        compensation and certain other benefits. The agreements also provide for
        severance payments under certain circumstances. 

We
        are a
        party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course
        of
        our business. Management believes that none of these actions, individually
        or in
        the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
        or
        operations.  

39 

Critical
      Accounting Policies   

The
      discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations
      are
      based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared
      in
      accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
      of
      America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make
      estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets,
      liabilities, revenues and cost and expenses, and related disclosure of
      contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our
      estimates, including those related to the provision for possible losses,
      deferred tax assets and liabilities, and identifiable intangible assets, and
      certain accrued liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience
      and
      on various other assumptions that we believe reasonable under the circumstances,
      the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying
      values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
      sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different
      assumptions or conditions.  

We
      have
      identified the following policies as critical to our business operations and
      the
      understanding of our results of operations.  

Loans
      Held for Investment  

We
      purchase participations in corporate leveraged loans and commercial real estate
      loans in the secondary market and through syndications of newly-originated
      loans. These loans are held for investment; therefore, we initially record
      them
      at their purchase price, and subsequently account for them based on their
      outstanding principal plus or minus any unamortized premiums or discounts.
      We
      may sell a loan held for investment if the credit fundamentals underlying a
      particular loan have changed in such a manner that our expected return on
      investment may decrease. Once we decide to no longer hold the loan for
      investment, the loan is recorded at the lower of amortized cost or fair
      value. 

To
      estimate the allowance for loan losses, we first identify impaired loans. Loans
      are generally evaluated for impairment individually, but loans purchased on
      a
      pooled basis with relatively smaller balances and substantially similar
      characteristics may be evaluated collectively for impairment. We consider a
      loan
      to be impaired when, based on current information and events, management
      believes it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due
      according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. When a loan is
      impaired, the allowance for loan losses is increased by the amount of the excess
      of the amortized cost basis of the loan over its fair value. Fair value may
      be
      determined based on market price, if available; the fair value of the collateral
      less estimated disposition costs; or the present value of estimated cash flows.
      Increases in the allowance for loan losses are recognized in the statements
      of
      income as a provision for loan losses. When a loan, or a portion thereof, is
      considered uncollectible and pursuit of the collection is not warranted, then
      we
      will record a charge-off or write-down of the loan against the allowance for
      loan losses. 

An
      impaired loan may remain on accrual status during the period in which we pursue
      repayment of the loan; however, the loan would be placed on non-accrual status
      at such time as either (1) management believes that scheduled debt service
      payments will not be met within the coming 12 months; (2) the loan becomes
      90
      days delinquent; (3) management determines the borrower is incapable of, or
      has
      ceased efforts toward, curing the cause of the impairment; or (4) the net
      realizable value of the loan s underlying collateral approximates our carrying
      value of such loan. While on non-accrual status, we recognize interest income
      only when actual payment is received. 

40 

Revenue
      Recognition  

Resource
      Capital Corp.   

In
      March
      2005, we entered into a Management Agreement pursuant to which we will provide
      certain services, including investment management and certain administrative
      services to RCC. We receive fees and are reimbursed for our expenses as follows:

a
                monthly base management fee equal to 1/12th of the amount of RCC s equity
                multiplied by 1.50%. Under the Management Agreement,   equity   is equal
                to the net proceeds from any issuance of shares of common stock less
                other
                offering related costs plus or minus our retained earnings (excluding
                non-cash equity compensation incurred in current or prior periods)
                less
                any amounts RCC paid for common stock repurchases. The calculation
                may be
                adjusted for one-time events due to changes in generally accepted
                accounting principles, or GAAP, as well as other non-cash charges,
                upon
                approval of the independent directors of RCC;

incentive
                compensation based on the products of (i) 25% of the dollar amount
                by
                which, (A) RCC s net income per common share (before non-cash equity
                compensation expense and incentive compensation) for a quarter (based
                on
                the weighted average number of shares outstanding) exceeds, (B) an
                amount
                equal to (1) the weighted average share price of shares of common
                stock in
                the offerings of RCC, multiplied by (2) the greater of (a) 2.00%
                or (b)
                0.50% plus one-fourth of the ten year treasury rate (as defined in
                the
                Management Agreement for such quarter), multiplied by (ii) the weighted
                average number of common shares outstanding for the quarter. The
                calculation may be adjusted for one time events due to changes in
                GAAP as
                well as other non-cash charges upon approval of the independent directors
                of RCC; and  

out-of-pocket
                expenses and certain other costs incurred by us associated with RCC
                and
                its operations. 

The
      incentive compensation is payable quarterly. Seventy-five percent (75%) of
      the
      incentive compensation is payable in cash and twenty-five percent (25%) is
      payable in the form of a restricted stock award. We may elect to receive more
      than 25% of our incentive compensation in the form of shares of common stock.
      However, our ownership percentage in RCC, direct and indirect, cannot exceed
      15%. All shares are fully vested upon issuance, provided that we may not sell
      such shares for one year after the incentive compensation becomes due and
      payable. Shares payable as incentive compensation are valued at the average
      of
      the closing prices of the shares over the thirty day period ending three days
      prior to the issuance of such shares. 

The
      initial term of the Management Agreement ends March 31, 2008. The Management
      Agreement automatically renews for a one-year term at the end of the initial
      term and each renewal term. With a two-thirds vote of the independent directors
      of RCC, the independent directors of RCC may elect to terminate the Management
      Agreement because of the following:        

unsatisfactory
                performance; and/or 

unfair
                compensation payable to the Company and fair compensation cannot
                be agreed
                upon between two-thirds of the independent directors of RCC and
                us. 

In
      the
      event that the Management Agreement is terminated based on the provisions
      disclosed above, RCC must pay us a termination fee equal to four times the
      sum
      of the average annual base management fee and the average annual incentive
      during the two 12-month periods immediately preceding the date of such
      termination. The Management Agreement also entitles RCC to terminate the
      Management Agreement for cause. 

41 

Financial
      Fund Management   

Loan
      Interest Income Recognition  

Interest
      income on loans includes interest at stated rates adjusted for amortization
      or
      accretion of premiums and discounts. Premiums and discounts are amortized or
      accreted into income using the effective yield method. When we purchase a loan
      or pool of loans at a discount, we consider the provisions of American Institute
      of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position, or SOP, 03-3   Accounting
      for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer   to evaluate
      whether all or a portion of the discount represents accretable yield. If a
      loan
      with a premium or discount is prepaid, we immediately recognize the unamortized
      portion as a decrease or increase to interest income. 

Stock-Based
      Compensation  

We
      account for the RCC restricted stock and stock options it has received in
      accordance with EITF 00-8, "Accounting by a Grantee for an Equity Instrument
      to
      Be Received in Conjunction with Providing Goods or Services." The terms of
      the
      stock award agreement provide that the deferred compensation be amortized over
      a
      three-year graded vesting period. The unvested stock and options are adjusted
      quarterly to reflect changes in the market value of RCC as performance under
      the
      agreement is completed. Such changes are reflected in the equity compensation
      expense recognized in that quarter and in future quarters until the stock and
      options are fully vested. 

Investments
      in Unconsolidated Entities  

Investments
      in the Trapeza entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting
      because as a 50% owner of the general partner of these entities, we have the
      ability to exercise significant influence over their operating and financial
      decisions. Our combined general and limited partner interests in these entities
      range from 13% to 18%.  

We
      account for four other company-sponsored partnerships using the equity
      method.  Three of these partnerships invest in regional banks and the other
      is organized as a hedge fund that we manage.  Our combined general and
      limited partner interests in each of these partnerships is approximately 10%.
      At
      September 30, 2005, these entities were consolidated with our financial
      statements. 

Investment
      Securities Available-for-Sale   

Investments
      in financial fund management entities contain the interests in unconsolidated
      CDOs owned by us and interests owned by the SFF partnerships that we control
      and
      as a result, are consolidated in our financial statements. Our combined general
      and limited partner interests in the SFF entities range from 15% to 36% and
      the
      interests owned by third parties are reflected as minority interest. The SFF
      entities are accounted for in accordance with EITF 99-20,  Recognition of
      Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests
      in
      Securitized Financial Assets.  

Real
      Estate    

Investments
      in Unconsolidated Entities  

Our
      investments in real estate limited partnerships, limited liability companies
      and
      TIC property interests are accounted for using the equity method of accounting
      since we have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating
      and
      financial decisions of the entities. These entities, which we sponsored and
      manage, were organized to invest in multi-family residential properties.

42 

Fee
      Income  

We
      receive acquisition fees of 1.75% of the net purchase price of properties
      acquired and financing fees equal to 1.75% of the debt obtained or assumed
      related to the properties acquired. In conjunction with TIC acquisitions, we
      also may receive a bridge equity fee. We recognize these fees upon acquiring
      the
      properties and obtaining the related financing.  

We
      also
      receive a monthly property management fee equal to 5% of the gross operating
      revenues from the underlying properties. We typically subcontract our property
      management obligations to third party property managers. We recognize this
      fee
      as the revenues of the underlying properties are earned. 

Additionally,
      we receive an annual investment management fee from the limited partnerships
      equal to 1% of the gross offering proceeds of each partnership for our services.
      We receive an annual asset management fee from the TIC investments equal to
      1%
      of the gross revenues from the property in connection with the performance
      of
      our asset management responsibilities. We receive an annual asset management
      fee
      from one limited liability company equal to 1.5% of the gross revenues of the
      underlying properties. These investment management fees and asset management
      fees are recognized ratably over each annual period. 

Loan
      Interest Income Recognition  

On
      our
      investments in real estate loans, we accrete the difference between its cost
      basis and the sum of projected cash flows from that loan into interest income
      over the estimated life of the loan using the interest method which recognizes
      a
      level interest rate over the life of the loan. We review projected cash flows,
      which include amounts realizable from the underlying properties, on a regular
      basis. Changes to projected cash flows, which can be based upon updated property
      appraisals, changes to the property and changes to the real estate market in
      general, reduce or increase the amounts accreted into interest income over
      the
      remaining life of the loan. We also utilize the cost recovery method for loans
      when appropriate under the circumstances. 

In
      determining the our allowance for possible losses related to our investments
      in
      real estate, we consider general and local economic conditions, neighborhood
      values, competitive overbuilding, casualty losses and other factors which may
      affect the value of loans and real estate. The value of loans and real estate
      may also be affected by factors such as the cost of compliance with regulations
      and liability under applicable environmental laws, changes in interest rates
      and
      the availability of financing. Income from a property will be reduced if a
      significant number of tenants are unable to pay rent or if available space
      cannot be rented on favorable terms. In addition, we continuously monitor
      collections and payments from our borrowers and maintain an allowance for
      estimated losses based upon our historical experience and our knowledge of
      specific borrower collection issues. We reduce our investment in real estate
      loans and real estate by an allowance for amounts that may become unrealizable
      in the future. Such allowance can be either specific to a particular loan or
      property or general to all loans and real estate. 

Commercial
      Finance   

Finance
      Revenues  

Investments
      in commercial finance assets consist of notes receivable, direct financing
      leases and operating leases. Leases are recorded in accordance with SFAS 13,
       Accounting for Leases,  and its various amendments and
      interpretations. 

Notes
      Receivable.   
      For term
      loans, the investment in notes receivable consists of the sum of the total
      future minimum loan payments receivable less unearned finance income. Unearned
      finance income, which is recognized as revenue over the term of the financing
      by
      the effective interest method, represents the excess of the total future minimum
      contracted payments over the cost of the related equipment. For all other loans,
      interest income is recorded at the stated rate on the accrual basis to the
      extent that such amounts are expected to be collected.  

43 

Direct
      Financing Leases   .
      Certain
      of our lease transactions are accounted for as direct financing leases (as
      distinguished from operating leases). Such leases transfer substantially all
      benefits and risks of equipment ownership to the customer. Our investment in
      direct financing leases consists of the sum of the total future minimum
      contracted payments receivable and the estimated unguaranteed residual value
      of
      leased equipment, less unearned finance income. Unearned finance income, which
      is recognized as revenue over the term of the financing by the effective
      interest method, represents the excess of the total future minimum lease
      payments plus the estimated unguaranteed residual value expected to be realized
      at the end of the lease term over the cost of the related equipment. Initial
      direct costs incurred in the consummation of the lease are capitalized as part
      of the investment in lease receivables and amortized over the lease term as
      a
      reduction of the yield. 

Operating
      Leases.   
      Leases
      not meeting any of the criteria to be classified as direct financing leases
      are
      deemed to be operating leases. Under the accounting for operating leases, the
      cost of the leased equipment, including acquisition fees associated with lease
      placements, is recorded as an asset and depreciated on a straight-line basis
      over the equipment s estimated useful life, generally up to seven years. Rental
      income consists primarily of monthly periodic rental payments due under the
      terms of the leases. We recognize rental income on a straight line basis.
      Generally, during the lease terms of existing operating leases, we will not
      recover all of the cost and related expenses of our rental equipment and,
      therefore, we are prepared to remarket the equipment in future years. Our policy
      is to review, on a quarterly basis, the expected economic life of our rental
      equipment in order to determine the recoverability of its undepreciated cost.
      We
      write down our rental equipment to its estimated net realizable value when
      it is
      probable that its carrying amount exceeds such value and the excess can be
      reasonably estimated; gains are only recognized upon actual sale of the rental
      equipment. There were no writedowns of equipment during fiscal 2006, 2005 and
      2004. 

We
      generally discontinue the recognition of revenue for leases and notes for which
      payments are more than 90 days past due.  

Acquisition
      and Fund Management Fees  

We
      receive acquisition fees from our leasing partnerships and ML equal to a
      percentage of the cost of leased equipment acquired as compensation for expenses
      incurred related to the lease acquisition. These fees are earned at the time
      of
      the sale of the related leased equipment to our partnerships and ML.

We
      also
      receive management fees for managing and servicing the leased assets acquired
      and earns fees at the time the service is performed. We also currently receive
      servicing fees ranging from 2% to 4% of gross rental payments received from
      certain parties and servicing fees that average 1% of the managed portfolio
      balance from others. Further, we receive fees as a reimbursement of our
      operating and administrative expenses incurred to manage the investment
      partnerships. 

Until
      September 2006, we had a program with subsidiaries of Merrill Lynch Commercial
      Finance Corp. ( ML ) under which we originated and sold leases to ML. We
      recorded gains or losses on the sales of leases and notes to ML based on the
      present value of the estimated cash flows that we retained over the estimated
      outstanding period of the receivables. This excess cash flow essentially
      represented an "interest-only" ("I/O") strip, consisting of the present value
      of
      the finance charges and late fees in excess of the amounts paid for debt
      service, credit losses, and service fees. During fiscal 2006 and 2005, we
      recognized gains of $28,000 and $313,000, net of tax, respectively related
      to
      the I/O strip. On September 26, 2006, we terminated this program with
      ML. 

Investments
      in Unconsolidated Entities  

Investments
      in commercial finance partnerships are accounted for using the equity method
      of
      accounting since we have the ability to exercise significant influence over
      operating and financial decisions of the partnerships. 

Other
      Revenues  

Fees
      from
      delinquent payments are recognized when received and are included in other
      income.  

44 

Recently
      Issued Financial Accounting Standards  

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
      157,
      or SFAS,    Fair
      Value Measurements,  or SFAS 157   ,   
      which
      provides guidance on how to measure assets and liabilities that use fair value.
      SFAS 157 will apply under other accounting pronouncements that require or
      permits assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value but does not expand
      the use of fair value to any new circumstances. This standard also will require
      additional disclosures in both annual and quarterly reports. SFAS 157 will
      be
      effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after
      November 15, 2007 and will be adopted by us in the first quarter of its fiscal
      year 2009. We currently are determining the effect, if any, the adoption of
      SFAS
      157 will have on our financial statements. 

In
      September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission staff issued Staff
      Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, 108,    Considering
      the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in
      Current Year Financial Statements,  or SAB 108  .
      SAB 108
      was issued to provide consistency between how registrants quantify financial
      statement misstatements.  

Historically,
      there have been two widely-used methods for quantifying the effects of financial
      statement misstatements. These methods are referred to as the  roll-over  and
 iron curtain  method. The roll-over method quantifies the amount by which the
      current year income statement is misstated. Exclusive reliance on an income
      statement approach can result in the accumulation of errors on the balance
      sheet
      that may not have been material to any individual income statement, but which
      may misstate one or more balance sheet accounts. The iron curtain method
      quantifies the error as the cumulative amount by which the current year balance
      sheet is misstated. Exclusive reliance on a balance sheet approach can result
      in
      disregarding the effects of errors in the current year income statement that
      results from the correction of an error existing in previously issued financial
      statements. We currently use the roll-over method for quantifying identified
      financial statement misstatements. 

SAB
      108
      established an approach that requires quantification of financial statement
      misstatements based on the effects of the misstatement on each of a registrant s
      financial statements and the related financial statement disclosures. This
      approach is commonly referred to as the  dual approach  because it requires
      quantification of errors under both the roll-over and iron curtain
      methods. 

SAB
      108
      allows registrants to initially apply the dual approach either by (1)
      retroactively adjusting prior financial statements as if the dual approach
      had
      always been used or (2) recording the cumulative effect of initially applying
      the dual approach as adjustments to the carrying values of assets and
      liabilities as of January 1, 2006 with an offsetting adjustment recorded to
      the
      opening balance of retained earnings. Use of this  cumulative effect  transition
      method requires detailed disclosure of the nature and amount of each individual
      error being corrected through the cumulative adjustment and how and when it
      arose. 

We
      expect
      to initially apply SAB 108 using the retroactive transition method in connection
      with the preparation of our annual financial statements for the year ending
      September 30, 2007. When we initially apply the provisions of SAB 108, we
      do not expect to record an adjustment as of September 30, 2007. The
      accompanying financial statements do not reflect any such
      adjustments. 

On
      July
      13, 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes -
      An Interpretation of SFAS 109.  FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty
      in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance
      with SFAS 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  FIN 48 also prescribes a
      recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
      recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken
      in a
      tax return. The new accounting standard also provides guidance on derecognition,
      classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods,
      disclosure, and transition. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective as of the
      beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2006 with early
      adoption permitted if no interim financial statements have been issued. We
      will
      not elect for early adoption of FIN 48, thus the provisions of FIN 48 will
      be
      implemented in the quarter ending December 31, 2007. We are currently
      determining the effect, if any, the adoption of FIN 48 will have on our
      financial statements. 

45 

In
      March
      2006, the FASB issued SFAS 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets,
      an amendment to SFAS 140.   SFAS 156 requires that all separately
      recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities be initially measured
      at
      fair value, if practicable. It also permits, but does not require, the
      subsequent measurement of servicing assets and servicing liabilities at fair
      value. Derivative instruments used to mitigate the risks inherent in servicing
      assets and servicing liabilities must be accounted for at fair value. Under
      SFAS
      156, an election can also be made for subsequent fair value measurement of
      servicing assets and servicing liabilities by class, thus simplifying the
      accounting and provide for income statement recognition of potential offsetting
      changes in the fair value of servicing assets, servicing liabilities and related
      derivative instruments. This statement will be adopted by us in the first
      quarter of its fiscal year 2007. We are currently determining the effect, if
      any, the adoption of FAS 156 will have on our financial statements. 

46 

ITEM
      7A.       QUANTITATIVE
      AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

The
      primary objective of the following information is to provide forward-looking
      quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market
      risks. The following discussion is not meant to be a precise indicator of
      expected future losses, but rather an indicator of reasonable possible losses.
      This forward-looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage
      our ongoing market risk exposures. All of our market risk  -  sensitive
      instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. 

General  

We
      are
      exposed to various market risks, principally fluctuating interest rates. These
      risks can impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.
      We manage these risks through regular operating and financing
      activities. 

The
      following analysis presents the effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial
      position as if hypothetical changes in market risk factors occurred at September
      30, 2006. We analyze only the potential impacts of hypothetical assumptions.
      Our
      analysis does not consider other possible effects that could impact our
      business.  

Financial
      Fund Management  

At
      September 30, 2006, we had two outstanding secured warehouse facilities to
      purchase bank loans. The two facilities had balances of $66.4 million and $2.9
      million, respectively, with interest rates of 3.8% and 6.0%, respectively,
      at
      September 30, 2006. A hypothetical 10% changes in the weighted average interest
      rate on these facilities would change our annual interest expense by
      approximately $128,000 and $15,000, respectively, based on expected CDO
      execution dates of March 2007 and July 2007, respectively. 

Real
      Estate  

Portfolio
      Loans and Related Senior Liens.   
      As of
      September 30, 2006, we believe that none of the three loans held in our
      portfolio that have senior liens are sensitive to changes in interest rates
      since: 

the
                loans are subject to forbearance or other agreements that require
                all of
                the operating cash flow from the properties underlying the loans,
                after
                debt service on senior lien interests, to be paid to us and thus
                are not
                currently being paid based on the stated interest rates of the loans;

the
                senior lien interests ahead of our interests are at fixed rates and
                are
                thus not subject to interest rate fluctuation that would affect payments
                to us; and  

each
                loan has significant accrued and unpaid interest and other charges
                outstanding to which cash flow from the underlying property would
                be
                applied even if cash flow were to exceed the interest due, as originally
                underwritten.  

FIN
      46 Loans.   
      One
      mortgage that we consolidate at September 30, 2006 as a result of FIN 46, is
      at
      a fixed interest rate and, therefore, is not subject to interest rate
      fluctuations.  

Commercial
      Finance  

At
      September 30, 2006, the amount outstanding on the $150.0 million LEAF Financial
      credit facility with National City Bank was $86.4 million at a weighted average
      interest rate of 6.9%. A hypothetical 10% change in the weighted average
      interest rates on these facilities would change our annual interest expense
      by
      approximately $420,000. 

47 

ITEM
      8.        FINANCIAL
      STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

[THE
      REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]  

48 

REPORT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

Stockholders
      and Board of Directors 

       RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

We
      have
      audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Resource America, Inc.
      (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2006 and 2005,
      and
      the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders' equity
      and comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the three years in the
      period ended September 30, 2006. These financial statements are the
      responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
      an
      opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 

We
      conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
      financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
      examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
      in
      the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
      principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
      evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
      audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In
      our
      opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
      material respects, the consolidated financial position of Resource America,
      Inc.
      and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2006 and 2005 and the consolidated results
      of their operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
      ended September 30, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally
      accepted in the United States of America. 

As
      discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
      recorded the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in connection
      with how the Company presented their equity earnings and losses in certain
      unconsolidated entities. Additionally, as discussed in Note 2 to the
      consolidated financial statements, effective October 1, 2005, the Company
      adopted the fair value method of accounting provisions of Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, Share-Based Payment. 

Our
      audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
      consolidated financial statements taken as a whole. Schedules III and IV are
      presented for the purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part
      of
      the basic consolidated financial statements. These schedules have been subjected
      to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic consolidated
      financial statements and, in our opinion, are fairly stated in all material
      respects in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
      a
      whole. 

We
      have
      also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Resource America, Inc. s
      internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on
      criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the
      Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and
      our
      report dated December 8, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management s
      assessment and an unqualified opinion on internal control
      effectiveness. 

/s/
      GRANT THORNTON LLP  

Cleveland,
      Ohio 

      December
      8, 2006 

49 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       CONSOLIDATED
      BALANCE SHEETS  

      (in
      thousands, except share data) 

See
      accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 

50 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF INCOME  

      (in
      thousands, except per share data) 

See
      accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 

51 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE
      INCOME  

       YEARS
      ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2006, 2005 AND 2004  

      (in
      thousands) 

See
      accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements  

52 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

      (in
      thousands) 

See
      accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 

53 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   (Continued)  

      (in
      thousands) 

(1)      Revised
      presentation to reflect detail of cash flows from discontinued
      operations. 

See
      accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 

54 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      1 - NATURE OF OPERATIONS  

Resource
      America, Inc. (the "Company") is a specialized asset management company that
      uses industry specific expertise to generate and administer investment
      opportunities for the Company and for outside investors in the financial fund
      management, real estate and commercial finance sectors. As a specialized asset
      manager, the Company seeks to develop investment vehicles in which outside
      investors invest along with the Company and for which the Company manages the
      assets acquired pursuant to long-term management and operating agreements.
      The
      Company limits its investment vehicles to investment areas where it owns
      existing operating companies or has specific expertise.  

In
      financial fund management, the Company manages the following types of securities
      and loans: 

trust
      preferred securities of banks, bank holding companies, insurance companies
      and
      other financial companies ( Trapeza   

asset-backed
      securities ( ABS ) including residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBS ) and
      commercial mortgage 

backed s  ecurities
      ( CMBS ) ( Ischus  

bank
      loans ( Apidos  and 

private
      equity investments. 

The
      assets are managed on behalf of institutional and individual investors and
      a
      specialty finance real estate investment trust, Resource Capital Corp. ( RCC )
      (NYSE: RSO), which commenced operations in March 2005. 

In
      real
      estate, the Company has expanded its operations through the sponsorship of
      real
      estate investment partnerships and tenant-in-common ( TIC ) programs. It has
      sponsored five such investment partnerships, four of which have commenced
      operations (one was still in the offering stage) and four TIC programs as of
      September 30, 2006. In addition, on behalf of RCC, the Company manages
      commercial real estate secured loans, whole loans, B-notes, mezzanine loans,
      mortgage related securities and other real estate related assets. The Company
      also manages a portfolio of real estate loans and, principally as a result
      of
      loan restructurings or foreclosures, interests in real property.  

In
      commercial finance, the Company has sponsored two publicly-held commercial
      finance partnerships for whom it originated leases and notes which commenced
      operations in March 2003 and April 2005, respectively. The Company is in the
      process of obtaining regulatory approval for the sponsorship of a third
      partnership. In April 2003, the Company entered into an agreement with a third
      party under which the Company originated and serviced equipment leases for
      the
      third party. This agreement was terminated in September 2006. In addition,
      the
      Company manages assets for RCC. 

Atlas
      America Spin-off  

In
      May
      2004, Atlas America Inc., the Company s former energy subsidiary ( Atlas
      America ) (Nasdaq: ATLS), completed a public offering of 2,645,000 shares of its
      common stock resulting in a $20.4 million gain based on the excess of proceeds
      received over the book value of the interest sold to the public. The gain is
      reflected as an increase to stockholders  equity. The net proceeds of the
      offering of $37.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and costs,
      were distributed to the Company in the form of a non-taxable dividend.

In
      connection with the Atlas America public offering, Edward E. Cohen ( E. Cohen )
      became Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Atlas America and
      retired as Chief Executive Officer of the Company. In connection with his
      retirement and the commencement of payment of benefits to him under his
      retirement plan, the Company recorded a charge of $1.4 million in fiscal 2004,
      which was included in general and administrative expenses (see Note
      14). 

55 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      1 - NATURE OF OPERATIONS   (Continued)  

On
      June
      30, 2005, the Company distributed its remaining interest in Atlas America of
      10.7 million shares to its stockholders in the form of a tax-free dividend.
      Each
      stockholder of the Company received 0.59367 shares of Atlas America for each
      share of Company common stock owned as of June 24, 2005, the record date.
      Although the distribution itself was tax-free to the Company s stockholders,
      there may be some tax liability as a result of the deconsolidation arising
      from
      prior unrelated corporate transactions among Atlas America and some of its
      subsidiaries. The Company anticipates that all or portions of any liability
      arising from this transaction may be reimbursed to the Company by Atlas America.
      The Company no longer consolidates Atlas America in its financial statements
      as
      of June 30, 2005, and the results of Atlas America s operations have been
      reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income
      (see Note 18).  

In
      connection with the public offering of Atlas America, the Company and Atlas
      America entered into a master separation and distribution agreement which
      contains the key provisions relating to Atlas America s separation from the
      Company. There are two agreements referenced in the master separation and
      distribution agreement that govern the ongoing relationships between the Company
      and Atlas America that are still in effect at September 30, 2006. These
      agreements are the tax matters agreement and the transition services agreement.

The
      tax
      matters agreement governs the respective rights, responsibilities and
      obligations of the Company and Atlas America with respect to tax liabilities
      and
      benefits, tax attributes, tax contests and other matters regarding income taxes,
      non-income taxes and related tax returns. 

The
      transition services agreement governs the provision of support services by
      the
      Company to Atlas America and by Atlas America to the Company, such
      as: 

payroll
      and human resources administration; 

information
      technology and data processing; 

real
      estate management; and 

other
      general administrative functions. 

The
      Company and Atlas America pay each other a fee for these services equal to
      their
      respective costs in providing them. The fee is payable monthly in arrears,
      15
      days after the close of the month. The Company and Atlas America also agreed
      to
      pay or reimburse each other for any out-of-pocket payments, costs and expenses
      associated with these services (see Note 15). 

In
      October 2006, Atlas America tentatively settled a class action lawsuit filed
      in
      February 2000 in New York pertaining to the payment of royalty revenues to
      landowners. The Company is a named defendant in the lawsuit. Under the terms
      of
      the settlement, Atlas America has agreed to pay $300,000. Management of the
      Company believes that this matter will not have a material adverse effect on
      the
      Company s financial condition or operations. 

56 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Reclassifications  

Certain
      reclassifications have been made to the fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 consolidated
      financial statements to conform to the fiscal 2006 presentation. 

The
      Company believes that, consistent with the presentation of other specialty
      finance companies, it is more appropriate to present its consolidated balance
      sheet on a non-classified basis, which does not segregate assets and liabilities
      into current and non-current categories.    The
      consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2005 has been reclassified to
      conform with this new presentation.  

Principles
      of Consolidation  

The
      consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its
      subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned except for certain financial fund
      management entities and LEAF Financial Corp ( LEAF ) in which the senior
      executives of LEAF hold 11.5%. In addition, in accordance with Financial
      Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Interpretation ( FIN ) 46-R,  Consolidation
      of Variable Interest Entities  ( FIN 46-R ), the Company consolidates certain
      variable interest entities ( VIEs ) as to which it has determined that it is the
      primary beneficiary (see Notes 7 and 8).  

Use
      of Estimates  

Preparation
      of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
      principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
      management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
      of
      assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
      as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts
      of revenues and costs and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
      could differ from these estimates. 

Impairment
      of Long-Lived Assets  

The
      Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or
      circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
      recoverable. If it is determined that an asset's estimated future cash flows
      will not be sufficient to recover its carrying amount, an impairment charge
      may
      be required to reduce the carrying amount for that asset to its estimated fair
      value. 

57 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
(Continued)  

Supplemental
      Cash Flow Information  

The
      Company considers temporary investments with a maturity at the date acquired
      of
      90 days or less to be cash equivalents.  

Supplemental
      disclosure of cash flow information (in thousands): 

Recently
      Issued Financial Accounting Standards  

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
      ( SFAS ) 157,    Fair
      Value Measurements   
      ( SFAS
      157 )   ,   
      which
      provides guidance on measuring the fair value of assets and liabilities. SFAS
      157 will apply to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit assets
      or liabilities to be measured at fair value but does not expand the use of
      fair
      value to any new circumstances. This standard will also require additional
      disclosures in both annual and quarterly reports. SFAS 157 will be effective
      for
      financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007
      and will be adopted by the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year
      2009.
      The Company is currently determining the effect, if any, the adoption of SFAS
      157 will have on its financial statements. 

In
      September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission staff issued Staff
      Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) 108,    Considering
      the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in
      Current Year Financial Statements   
      ( SAB
      108 ). SAB 108 was issued to provide consistency between how registrants
      quantify financial statement misstatements.  

Historically,
      there have been two widely-used methods for quantifying the effects of financial
      statement misstatements. These methods are referred to as the  roll-over  and
 iron curtain  method. The roll-over method quantifies the amount by which the
      current year income statement is misstated. Exclusive reliance on an income
      statement approach can result in the accumulation of errors on the balance
      sheet
      that may not have been material to any individual income statement, but which
      may misstate one or more balance sheet accounts. The iron curtain method
      quantifies the error as the cumulative amount by which the current year balance
      sheet is misstated. Exclusive reliance on a balance sheet approach can result
      in
      disregarding the effects of errors in the current year income statement that
      results from the correction of an error existing in previously issued financial
      statements. The Company currently uses the roll-over method for quantifying
      identified financial statement misstatements. 

58 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
(Continued)  

Recently
      Issued Financial Accounting Standards   (Continued)  

SAB
      108
      established an approach that requires quantification of financial statement
      misstatements based on the effects of the misstatement on each of a registrant s
      financial statements and the related financial statement disclosures. This
      approach is commonly referred to as the  dual approach  because it requires
      quantification of errors under both the roll-over and iron curtain
      methods. 

SAB
      108
      allows registrants to initially apply the dual approach either by (1)
      retroactively adjusting prior financial statements as if the dual approach
      had
      always been used or (2) recording the cumulative effect of initially applying
      the dual approach as adjustments to the carrying values of assets and
      liabilities as of January 1, 2006 with an offsetting adjustment recorded to
      the
      opening balance of retained earnings. Use of this  cumulative effect  transition
      method requires detailed disclosure of the nature and amount of each individual
      error being corrected through the cumulative adjustment and how and when it
      arose. 

The
      Company expects to initially apply SAB 108 using the retroactive transition
      method in connection with the preparation of the Company s annual financial
      statements for the year ending September 30, 2007. When the Company
      initially applies the provisions of SAB 108, the Company does not expect to
      record an adjustment as of September 30, 2007. The accompanying financial
      statements do not reflect any such adjustments. 

On
      July
      13, 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes -
      An Interpretation of SFAS 109.  FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty
      in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance
      with SFAS 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  FIN 48 also prescribes a
      recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
      recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken
      in a
      tax return. The new accounting standard also provides guidance on derecognition,
      classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods,
      disclosure, and transition. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective as of the
      beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2006 with early
      adoption permitted if no interim financial statements have been issued. The
      Company will not elect for early adoption of FIN 48, thus the provisions of
      FIN
      48 will be implemented in the quarter ending December 31, 2007. The Company
      is
      currently determining the effect, if any, the adoption of FIN 48 will have
      on
      its financial statements.  

In
      March
      2006, the FASB issued SFAS 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets,
      an amendment to SFAS 140.   SFAS 156 requires that all separately
      recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities be initially measured
      at
      fair value, if practicable. It also permits, but does not require, the
      subsequent measurement of servicing assets and servicing liabilities at fair
      value. Derivative instruments used to mitigate the risks inherent in servicing
      assets and servicing liabilities must be accounted for at fair value. Under
      SFAS
      156, an election can also be made for subsequent fair value measurement of
      servicing assets and servicing liabilities by class, thus simplifying the
      accounting and provide for income statement recognition of potential offsetting
      changes in the fair value of servicing assets, servicing liabilities and related
      derivative instruments. This statement will be adopted by the Company in the
      first quarter of its fiscal year 2007. The Company is currently determining
      the
      effect, if any, the adoption of FAS 156 will have on its financial
      statements. 

59 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
(Continued)  

Stock-Based
      Compensation  

Employee
      stock options  

The
      Company adopted SFAS 123R,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  as revised
      ( SFAS 123R ), as of October 1, 2005. Accordingly, employee stock options
      granted on and after October 1, 2005 are being expensed by the Company over
      the
      option vesting period, based on the estimated fair value of the award on the
      date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Company s
      calculations were made using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
      following weighted average assumptions:  

During
      the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, the Company granted 44,000 employee
      stock options. There was no corresponding tax benefit recorded since the options
      issued were incentive stock options ( ISOs ) and employees have typically held
      the stock received on exercise for the requisite holding period. However, with
      respect to taxable transactions, including disqualifying dispositions of ISO
      shares and exercises of non-qualified stock options, the Company recorded a
      $231,000 deferred tax benefit with an offset to additional paid-in capital
      for
      fiscal 2006.  

The
      unamortized compensation related to previously issued options is being expensed
      over the remaining vesting period of those options. At September 30, 2006 and
      2005, the Company had unamortized compensation expense of $2.3 million and
      $3.1
      million, respectively. For fiscal 2006, the Company recorded
      compensation expense of $1.1 million ($0.06 per share-diluted).  

For
      the
      fiscal years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, the Company accounted for
      stock-based employee compensation plans under the recognition and measurement
      principles of Accounting Principles Board Opinion 25 and related
      interpretations. No stock-based employee compensation expense was reflected
      in
      net income since each option granted had an exercise price equal to the market
      value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. 

60 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
(Continued)  

Stock-Based
      Compensation        Employee
      stock options       
      (Continued)  

SFAS
      123R
      requires the disclosures of pro forma net income and earnings per share as
      if
      the Company had adopted the fair value method for stock options granted. The
      following table provides the pro forma effects of recognizing compensation
      expense in accordance with SFAS 123R (in thousands, except per share
      data): 

Restricted
      common stock  

In
      February 2006, LEAF issued 300,000 shares of its restricted common stock valued
      at $69,000 based on 3% of LEAF s equity as of the date of issuance. These
      restricted shares, issued to three senior officers of LEAF, vest 50% per year
      commencing on February 1, 2007. For fiscal 2006, the Company recorded
      stock-based compensation for the LEAF restricted stock of $36,000. 

In
      fiscal
      2006, the Company issued 84,580 shares of restricted RAI common stock to its
      senior management valued at $1.5 million based on the closing price of the
      Company s stock as of the date of grant. These restricted shares vest 25% per
      year commencing on January 3, 2007 except for 1,061 shares which vested
      immediately. For fiscal 2006, the Company recorded stock-based compensation
      expense for these restricted shares of $269,000. 

In
      conjunction with the formation of RCC in March 2005, the Company received
      restricted shares of RCC (see Note 9). The Company accounts for the RCC
      restricted stock and stock options it holds in accordance with EITF 96-18,
        Accounting for Equity Instruments that are issued to other than Employees for
      Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling, Goods or Services,   and SFAS 123-R.

61 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
(Continued)  

Concentration
      of Credit Risk  

Financial
      instruments, which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit
      risk, consist principally of periodic temporary investments of cash and
      restricted cash. The Company places its temporary cash investments and
      restricted cash in high quality short-term money market instruments with
      high-quality financial institutions and brokerage firms. At September 30, 2006,
      the Company had $43.0 million in deposits at various banks, of which $40.3
      million was over the insurance limit of the Federal Deposit Insurance
      Corporation. No losses have been experienced on such investments. 

Investments
      in Marketable Securities  

The
      Company accounts for its investments in affiliates, financial fund management
      entities and other marketable securities in accordance with SFAS 115,
 Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.  Investments
      in affiliates include the Company s holdings in The Bancorp, Inc. ( TBBK )
      (Nasdaq: TBBK) and RCC. Investments in financial fund management entities
      include the Company s direct investments in the unconsolidated collateralized
      debt obligations ( CDOs ) it sponsors as well as its indirect holdings in CDOs
      through its consolidation with the Structured Finance Fund ( SFF ) entities.
      These investment securities are classified as available-for-sale and, as such,
      are carried at fair value based on market quotes. Cumulative net unrealized
      gains and losses on these investment securities, net of tax, are reported as
      accumulated comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders  equity. The cost of
      securities sold is based on the specific identification method.  

The
      investments held by the respective CDOs are sensitive to interest rate
      fluctuations, which accordingly impact their fair value. Unrealized losses
      are
      generally caused by the effect of rising interest rates on certain securities
      with stated interest rates that are below market. The Company s review of these
      CDO investments at September 30, 2006 noted that all were current with respect
      to scheduled payments of interest and principal and that there were no changes
      in characteristics to indicate any credit impairment. Therefore, the Company
      does not believe that the unrealized losses in the CDOs represent an
      other-than-temporary impairment as of September 30, 2006. 

The
      following table discloses the pre-tax unrealized gains (losses) relating to
      the
      Company s investments in marketable securities (in thousands): 

CDO
      investments with unrealized losses as of September 30, 2006 along with the
      related fair value and aggregated by the length of time they were in a
      continuous unrealized loss position, are as follows (in thousands): 

62 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES -
      (Continued)  

Fair
      Value of Financial Instruments   

The
      Company used the following methods and assumptions in estimating the fair value
      of each class of financial instrument for which it is practicable to estimate
      fair value.  

For
      cash,
      receivables and payables, the carrying amounts approximate fair value because
      of
      the short maturity of these instruments. 

It
      is
      impractical to determine the fair values of the Company s investments in real
      estate loans because each loan is a unique transaction involving a discrete
      property. However, the Company believes the carrying amounts of the loans are
      reasonable estimates of their fair value considering the nature of the loans
      and
      the estimated yield relative to the risks involved.  

The
      fair
      value of certain financial instruments is as follows (in
      thousands): 

(1) 

The
                carrying value of the Company s floating rate debt approximates its fair
                value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments and
                the
                variable interest rates in the debt agreements. The carrying value
                of the
                Company s fixed rate debt approximates its fair value due to its recent
                issuance. 

Loans
      Held for Investment  

The
      Company purchases participations in corporate leveraged loans and commercial
      real estate loans in the secondary market and through syndications of
      newly-originated loans. These loans are held for investment; therefore, the
      Company initially records them at their purchase price, and subsequently
      accounts for them based on their outstanding principal plus or minus any
      unamortized premiums or discounts. The Company may sell a loan held for
      investment if the credit fundamentals underlying a particular loan have changed
      in such a manner that the Company s expected return on investment may decrease.
      Once the Company decides that it no longer will hold the loan for investment,
      the loan is recorded at the lower of amortized cost or fair value. 

63 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES -
      (Continued)  

Loans
      Held for Investment   (Continued)  

To
      estimate the allowance for loan losses, the Company first identifies impaired
      loans. Loans are generally evaluated for impairment individually, but loans
      purchased on a pooled basis with relatively smaller balances and substantially
      similar characteristics may be evaluated collectively for impairment. The
      Company considers a loan to be impaired when, based on current information
      and
      events, management believes it is probable that the Company will be unable
      to
      collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan
      agreement. When a loan is impaired, the allowance for loan losses is increased
      by the amount of the excess of the amortized cost basis of the loan over its
      fair value. Fair value may be determined based on market price, if available;
      the fair value of the collateral less estimated disposition costs; or the
      present value of estimated cash flows. Increases in the allowance for loan
      losses are recognized in the statements of income as a provision for loan
      losses. When a loan, or a portion thereof, is considered uncollectible and
      pursuit of the collection is not warranted, then the Company will record a
      charge-off or write-down of the loan against the allowance for loan
      losses. 

An
      impaired loan may remain on accrual status during the period in which the
      Company is pursuing repayment of the loan; however, the loan would be placed
      on
      non-accrual status at such time as either (1) management believes that scheduled
      debt service payments will not be met within the coming 12 months; (2) the
      loan
      becomes 90 days delinquent; (3) management determines the borrower is incapable
      of, or has ceased efforts toward, curing the cause of the impairment; or (4)
      the
      net realizable value of the loan s underlying collateral approximates the
      Company s carrying value of such loan. While on non-accrual status, the Company
      recognizes interest income only when actual payment is received. 

Property
      and Equipment  

Property and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation is based on cost, less
      estimated salvage value, using the straight-line method over the asset s
      estimated useful life. Amortization is based on cost, maintenance and repairs
      are expensed as incurred using the straight-line method over the lease term.
      Major renewals and improvements that extend the useful lives of property and
      equipment are capitalized. 

Revenue
      Recognition  

Resource
      Capital Corp.   

In
      March
      2005, the Company entered into a Management Agreement pursuant to which it
      will
      provide certain services, including investment management and certain
      administrative services to RCC. The Company receives fees and is reimbursed
      for
      its expenses as follows:  

a
                monthly base management fee equal to 1/12th of the amount of RCC s equity
                multiplied by 1.50%. Under the Management Agreement,   equity   is equal
                to the net proceeds from any issuance of shares of common stock less
                other
                offering related costs plus or minus the Company s retained earnings
                (excluding non-cash equity compensation incurred in current or prior
                periods) less any amounts RCC paid for common stock repurchases.
                The
                calculation may be adjusted for one-time events due to changes in
                generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) as well as other
                non-cash charges, upon approval of the independent directors of RCC;

64 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES -
      (Continued)  

Revenue
      Recognition       
      Resource Capital Corp.            
      (Continued)   

incentive
                compensation based on the products of (i) 25% of the dollar amount
                by
                which, (A) RCC s net income per common share (before non-cash equity
                compensation expense and incentive compensation) for a quarter (based
                on
                the weighted average number of shares outstanding) exceeds, (B) an
                amount
                equal to (1) the weighted average share price of shares of common
                stock in
                the offerings of RCC, multiplied by (2) the greater of (a) 2.00%
                or (b)
                0.50% plus one-fourth of the ten year treasury rate (as defined in
                the
                Management Agreement for such quarter), multiplied by (ii) the weighted
                average number of common shares outstanding for the quarter. The
                calculation may be adjusted for one time events due to changes in
                GAAP as
                well as other non-cash charges upon approval of the independent directors
                of RCC; and  

out-of-pocket
                expenses and certain other costs incurred by the Company associated
                with
                RCC and its operations. 

The
      incentive compensation is to be paid quarterly. Seventy-five percent (75%)
      of
      the incentive compensation is to be paid in cash and twenty-five percent (25%)
      is to be paid in the form of a restricted stock award. The Company may elect
      to
      receive more than 25% of its incentive compensation in the form of shares of
      common stock. However, the Company s ownership percentage in RCC, direct and
      indirect, cannot exceed 15%. All shares are fully vested upon issuance, provided
      that the Company may not sell such shares for one year after the incentive
      compensation becomes due and payable. Shares payable as incentive compensation
      are valued at the average of the closing prices of the shares over the thirty
      day period ending three days prior to the issuance of such shares. 

The
      initial term of the Management Agreement ends March 31, 2008. The Management
      Agreement automatically renews for a one-year term at the end of the initial
      term and each renewal term. With a two-thirds vote of the independent directors
      of RCC, the independent directors of RCC may elect to terminate the Management
      Agreement because of the following:        

unsatisfactory
                performance; and/or 

unfair
                compensation payable to the Company and fair compensation cannot
                be agreed
                upon between two-thirds of the independent directors of RCC and the
                Company. 

In
        the
        event that the Management Agreement is terminated based on the provisions
        disclosed above, RCC must pay the Company a termination fee equal to four
        times
        the sum of the average annual base management fee and the average annual
        incentive during the two 12-month periods immediately preceding the date
        of such
        termination. The Management Agreement also entitles RCC to terminate the
        Management Agreement for cause.  

Furthermore,
        the Company receives an acquisition fee of 1% of the carrying value of the
        commercial finance assets it sells to RCC.  

In
        fiscal
        2006, the management and acquisition fees that the Company received from
        RCC
        were $8.2 million, or 10% of our consolidated revenues. These fees have been
        reported as revenues by each of the Company s operating segments, except for
        Resource Europe.  

65 

RESOURCE
        AMERICA, INC.  

         NOTES
        TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

         SEPTEMBER
        30, 2006  

NOTE
        2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES -
        (Continued)  

Revenue
        Recognition   Financial Fund Management   

Loan
      Interest Income Recognition  

Interest
      income on loans includes interest at stated rates adjusted for amortization
      or
      accretion of premiums and discounts. Premiums and discounts are amortized or
      accreted into income using the effective yield method. When the Company
      purchases a loan or pool of loans at a discount, it considers the provisions
      of
      American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position
      (  SOP  ) 03-3   Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a
      Transfer   to evaluate whether all or a portion of the discount represents
      accretable yield. If a loan with a premium or discount is prepaid, the Company
      immediately recognizes the unamortized portion as a decrease or increase to
      interest income.  

       Stock-Based
      Compensation  

The
      Company accounts for the RCC restricted stock and stock options it has received
      in accordance with EITF 00-8, "Accounting by a Grantee for an Equity Instrument
      to Be Received in Conjunction with Providing Goods or Services." The terms
      of
      the stock award agreement provide that the deferred compensation be amortized
      over a three-year graded vesting period. The unvested stock and options are
      adjusted quarterly to reflect changes in the market value of RCC as performance
      under the agreement is completed. Such changes are reflected in the equity
      compensation expense recognized in that quarter and in future quarters until
      the
      stock and options are fully vested. 

Investments
      in Unconsolidated Entities  

Investments
      in the Trapeza entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting
      because the Company, as a 50% owner of the general partner of these entities,
      has the ability to exercise significant influence over their operating and
      financial decisions. The Company's combined general and limited partner
      interests in these entities range from 13% to 18%.  

The
      Company accounts for four other company-sponsored partnerships using the equity
      method.  Three of these partnerships invest in regional banks and the other
      is organized as a hedge fund that the Company manages.  The Company s
      combined general and limited partner interests in each of these partnerships
      is
      approximately 10%. At September 30, 2005, these entities were consolidated
      with
      the Company s financial statements (see Note 10). 

Investment
      Securities Available-for-Sale   

Investments
      in financial fund management entities contain the interests in unconsolidated
      CDOs owned by the Company and interests owned by the SFF partnerships that
      the
      Company controls and as a result, are consolidated in its financial statements.
      The Company's combined general and limited partner interests in the SFF entities
      range from 15% to 36% and the interests owned by third parties are reflected
      as
      minority interest. The SFF entities are accounted for in accordance with EITF
      99-20,  Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained
      Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets.  

66 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES -
      (Continued)  

Revenue
      Recognition   Real Estate   

Investments
        in Unconsolidated Entities  

The
        Company s investments in real estate limited partnerships, limited liability
        companies and TIC property interests are accounted for using the equity method
        of accounting since the Company has the ability to exercise significant
        influence over operating and financial decisions of the entities. These
        entities, which the Company sponsored and manages, were organized to invest
        in
        multi-family residential properties.  

Fee
      Income  

The
      Company receives acquisition fees of 1.75% of the net purchase price of
      properties acquired and financing fees equal to 1.75% of the debt obtained
      or
      assumed related to the properties acquired. In conjunction with TIC
      acquisitions, the Company also may receive a bridge equity fee. The Company
      recognizes these fees upon acquiring the properties and obtaining the related
      financing.  

The
      Company also receives a monthly property management fee equal to 5% of the
      gross
      operating revenues from the underlying properties. The Company typically
      subcontracts its property management obligations to third party property
      managers. The Company recognizes this fee as the revenues of the underlying
      properties are earned. 

Additionally,
      the Company receives an annual investment management fee from the limited
      partnerships equal to 1% of the gross offering proceeds of each partnership
      for
      its services. The Company receives an annual asset management fee from the
      TIC
      investments equal to 1% of the gross revenues from the property in connection
      with its performance of its asset management responsibilities. The Company
      receives an annual asset management fee from one limited liability company
      equal
      to 1.5% of the gross revenues of the underlying properties. These investment
      management fees and asset management fees are recognized ratably over each
      annual period. 

Loan
      Interest Income Recognition  

On
      its
      investments in real estate loans, the Company accretes the difference between
      its cost basis and the sum of projected cash flows from that loan into interest
      income over the estimated life of the loan using the interest method which
      recognizes a level interest rate over the life of the loan. The Company reviews
      projected cash flows, which include amounts realizable from the underlying
      properties, on a regular basis. Changes to projected cash flows, which can
      be
      based upon updated property appraisals, changes to the property and changes
      to
      the real estate market in general, reduce or increase the amounts accreted
      into
      interest income over the remaining life of the loan. The Company also utilizes
      the cost recovery method for loans when appropriate under the
      circumstances. 

In
      determining the Company s allowance for possible losses related to its
      investments in real estate, the Company considers general and local economic
      conditions, neighborhood values, competitive overbuilding, casualty losses
      and
      other factors which may affect the value of loans and real estate. The value
      of
      loans and real estate may also be affected by factors such as the cost of
      compliance with regulations and liability under applicable environmental laws,
      changes in interest rates and the availability of financing. Income from a
      property will be reduced if a significant number of tenants are unable to pay
      rent or if available space cannot be rented on favorable terms. In addition,
      the
      Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its borrowers and
      maintains an allowance for estimated losses based upon its historical experience
      and its knowledge of specific borrower collection issues. The Company reduces
      its investments in real estate loans and real estate by an allowance for amounts
      that may become unrealizable in the future. Such allowance can be either
      specific to a particular loan or property or general to all loans and real
      estate. 

67 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES -
      (Continued)  

Revenue
      Recognition   (Continued)   

Commercial
      Finance   

Finance
      Revenues  

Investments
      in commercial finance assets consist of notes receivable, direct financing
      leases and operating leases. Leases are recorded in accordance with SFAS 13,
       Accounting for Leases,  and its various amendments and
      interpretations. 

Notes
      Receivable.   
      For term
      loans, the investment in notes receivable consists of the sum of the total
      future minimum loan payments receivable less unearned finance income. Unearned
      finance income, which is recognized as revenue over the term of the financing
      by
      the effective interest method, represents the excess of the total future minimum
      contracted payments over the cost of the related equipment. For all other loans,
      interest income is recorded at the stated rate on the accrual basis to the
      extent that such amounts are expected to be collected.  

Direct
      Financing Leases   .
      Certain
      of the Company s lease transactions are accounted for as direct financing leases
      (as distinguished from operating leases). Such leases transfer substantially
      all
      benefits and risks of equipment ownership to the customer. The Company s
      investment in direct financing leases consists of the sum of the total future
      minimum contracted payments receivable and the estimated unguaranteed residual
      value of leased equipment, less unearned finance income. Unearned finance
      income, which is recognized as revenue over the term of the financing by the
      effective interest method, represents the excess of the total future minimum
      lease payments plus the estimated unguaranteed residual value expected to be
      realized at the end of the lease term over the cost of the related equipment.
      Initial direct costs incurred in the consummation of the lease are capitalized
      as part of the investment in lease receivables and amortized over the lease
      term
      as a reduction of the yield. 

Operating
      Leases.   
      Leases
      not meeting any of the criteria to be classified as direct financing leases
      are
      deemed to be operating leases. Under the accounting for operating leases, the
      cost of the leased equipment, including acquisition fees associated with lease
      placements, is recorded as an asset and depreciated on a straight-line basis
      over the equipment s estimated useful life, generally up to seven years. Rental
      income consists primarily of monthly periodic rental payments due under the
      terms of the leases. The Company recognizes rental income on a straight line
      basis. Generally, during the lease terms of existing operating leases, the
      Company will not recover all of the cost and related expenses of its rental
      equipment and, therefore, it is prepared to remarket the equipment in future
      years. The Company s policy is to review, on a quarterly basis, the expected
      economic life of its rental equipment in order to determine the recoverability
      of its undepreciated cost. The Company writes down its rental equipment to
      its
      estimated net realizable value when it is probable that its carrying amount
      exceeds such value and the excess can be reasonably estimated; gains are only
      recognized upon actual sale of the rental equipment. There were no writedowns
      of
      equipment during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. 

The
      Company generally discontinues the recognition of revenue for leases and notes
      for which payments are more than 90 days past due.  

68 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES -
      (Continued)  

Revenue
      Recognition   Commercial Finance   (Continued)   

Acquisition
      and Fund Management Fees  

The
      Company receives acquisition fees from its leasing partnerships and ML equal
      to
      a percentage of the cost of leased equipment acquired as compensation for
      expenses incurred related to the lease acquisition. These fees are earned at
      the
      time of the sale of the related leased equipment to its partnerships and ML.

The
      Company also receives management fees for managing and servicing the leased
      assets acquired and earns fees at the time the service is performed. The Company
      also currently receives servicing fees ranging from 2% to 4% of gross rental
      payments received from certain parties and servicing fees that average 1% of
      the
      managed portfolio balance from others. Further, the Company receives fees as
      a
      reimbursement of its operating and administrative expenses incurred to manage
      the investment partnerships. 

Until
      September 2006, the Company had a program with subsidiaries of Merrill Lynch
      Commercial Finance Corp. ( ML ) under which it originated and sold leases to ML.
      The Company recorded gains or losses on the sales of leases and notes to ML
      based on the present value of the estimated cash flows that it retained over
      the
      estimated outstanding period of the receivables. This excess cash flow
      essentially represented an "interest-only" ("I/O") strip, consisting of the
      present value of the finance charges and late fees in excess of the amounts
      paid
      for debt service, credit losses, and service fees. During fiscal 2006 and 2005,
      the Company recognized gains of $28,000 and $313,000, net of tax, respectively
      related to the I/O strip. On September 26, 2006, the Company terminated this
      program with ML. 

Investments
      in Unconsolidated Entities  

Investments
      in commercial finance partnerships are accounted for using the equity method
      of
      accounting since the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence
      over operating and financial decisions of the partnerships. 

Other
      Revenues  

Fees
      from
      delinquent payments are recognized when received and are included in other
      income.  

69 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      3 - COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  

Comprehensive
      income includes net income and all other changes in the equity of a business
      from transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner sources.
      These changes, other than net income, are referred to as  other comprehensive
      income  and for the Company include changes in the fair value, net of taxes, of
      investment securities available-for-sale. Hedging gains and losses of Atlas
      America were also included in comprehensive income through June 30, 2005, the
      spin-off completion date.   

The
      following table reflects the changes in comprehensive income (in
      thousands): 

NOTE
      4 - EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE  

Basic
      earnings (loss) per share ( Basic EPS ) is determined by dividing net income
      (loss) by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding
      during the period. Diluted earnings (loss) per share ( Diluted EPS ) is computed
      by dividing net income (loss) by the sum of the weighted average number of
      shares of common stock outstanding after giving effect to the potential dilution
      from the exercise of securities, such as stock options, into shares of common
      stock as if those securities were exercised as well as the dilutive effect
      of
      other award plans, including restricted stock and director units. 

70 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      4 - EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE   (Continued)  

The
      following table presents a reconciliation of the components used in the
      computation of Basic EPS and Diluted EPS (in thousands):  

(1) 

The
                Company recorded a cumulative adjustment for the elimination of the
                one-quarter delay in reporting its equity in earnings of the Trapeza
                entities (see Note 10). 

(2) 

The
                Company had outstanding convertible notes payable in the amount of
                $11,500
                to two executive officers of LEAF. These notes were converted (at
                the
                election of the executives) into 11.5% of LEAF s common stock on February
                1, 2006. The Diluted EPS computation reflects the assumed conversion
                of
                the notes as of the beginning of the periods presented through the
                conversion date and the related minority interest expense, net of
                tax, as
                a reduction of income from continuing
                operations. 

NOTE
      5 -RESTRICTED CASH  

At
      September 30, 2006, the Company held $8.1 million of cash in escrow accounts
      in
      conjunction with certain financing arrangements (see Notes 12 and 17). At
      September 30, 2005, the Company held $5.0 million in escrow in conjunction
      with
      a warehouse facility. 

NOTE
      6 - INVESTMENTS IN COMMERCIAL FINANCE  

The
      Company s investments in commercial finance include the following (in
      thousands): 

The
      interest rates on notes receivable generally range from   8  %
      to
      15%. 

71 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      6 - INVESTMENTS IN COMMERCIAL FINANCE   (Continued)  

The
      components of direct financing leases are as follows (in
      thousands): 

Although
      the lease and notes terms extend over many years as indicated in the following
      table, the Company routinely sells without recourse the leases and notes it
      acquires or originates to the investment entities it manages (including RCC
      and
      prior to September 26, 2006, ML) shortly after their acquisition or origination
      in accordance with agreements with each party. As a result of these routine
      sales of leases and notes as well as the Company s credit evaluations,
      management concluded that no allowance for possible losses was needed at
      September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. The contractual future minimum lease and
      note
      payments and related rental payments scheduled to be received on direct
      financing non-cancelable leases, notes receivable and operating leases for
      each
      of the five succeeding annual periods ending September 30 and thereafter are
      as
      follows (in thousands):  

(1) 

Operating
                lease amounts as shown are net of the residual value, if any, at
                the end
                of the lease term. 

NOTE
      7   LOANS HELD FOR INVESTMENT  

The
      Company typically funds the initial acquisition of portfolio assets for CDO
      issuers it sponsors through a secured warehouse credit facility prior to closing
      the CDO issuer s offering.      In
      those
      transactions in which the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary (as
      defined by FIN 46-R), the assets and liabilities of the CDO issuer are
      consolidated. Upon the execution of the CDO, the warehouse facility is
      refinanced through the issuance of CDOs and the CDO issuer is no longer
      consolidated with the Company. 

The
      following is a summary of the Company s bank loans held for investment (in
      thousands): 

72 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      7   LOANS HELD FOR INVESTMENT   (Continued)  

At September 30, 2006, the Company s secured bank loan portfolio consisted of
      $69.3 million of floating rate loans, which bear interest between various London
      Inter-Bank Offered Rates ( LIBOR ), including European LIBOR, rates plus 1.75%
      to 4.25%, with maturity dates ranging from October 2012 to March 2016. There
      were no fixed rate loans as of September 30, 2006. 

At
      September 30, 2006, all of the Company s loans are current with respect to the
      scheduled payments of principal and interest. In reviewing the portfolio of
      loans and the observable secondary market prices, the Company did not identify
      any loans with characteristics indicating that impairment had occurred.

At September 30, 2005, the Company s secured bank loan portfolio consisted of
      $97.8 million of floating rate loans, which bore interest between various LIBOR
      rates plus 1.00% to 6.00%, with maturity dates ranging from December 2005 to
      April 2013. There were no fixed rate loans as of September 30, 2005. In December
      2005, the Company transferred these loans at cost to an unconsolidated CDO
      issuer that the Company sponsored. The related secured warehouse credit facility
      was simultaneously terminated (see Note 12). 

Based
      on
      its review of its loans held for investment at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
      respectively, management of the Company determined that no allowance for loan
      losses was needed.  

NOTE
      8 - INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE  

Real
      Estate Loans and Real Estate  

The
      following is a summary of the changes in the carrying value of the Company s
      investments in real estate (in thousands): 

Minimum
      future rental income under non-cancelable operating leases associated with
      real
      estate rental properties owned by the Company or that have been consolidated
      under FIN 46-R for each of the five succeeding years ending September 30 and
      thereafter are as follows: 2007 - $739,000; 2008 - $750,000; 2009 - $725,000;
      2010 - $595,000; 2011 - $470,000; and thereafter - $1,496,000.  

Based
      on
      its review of its investments in real estate at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
      respectively, management of the Company determined that the allowance for loan
      losses of $770,000 was adequate. 

73 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      8 - INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE   (Continued)  

Consolidation
      of Variable Interest Entities   Real Estate  

Certain
      entities relating to the Company s real estate business have been consolidated
      in accordance with FIN 46-R. Due to the timing of the receipt of financial
      information from third parties, the Company accounts for the activities of
      these
      entities on a one quarter lag, except when adjusting for the impact of
      significant events such as a refinance or sale.  

The
      assets, liabilities, revenues and costs and expenses of the VIEs that are
      included in the consolidated financial statements are not the Company s. The
      liabilities of the VIEs will be satisfied from the cash flows of the respective
      VIE s consolidated assets, not from the assets of the Company, which has no
      legal obligation to satisfy those liabilities.  

The
      following tables provide supplemental information about assets, liabilities,
      revenues and costs and expenses associated with two and three entities at
      September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, that were consolidated in accordance
      with FIN 46-R (in thousands):  

74 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      8 - INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE   (Continued)  

Consolidation
      of Real Estate Entities Held for Sale  

The
      following tables provide supplemental information about assets, liabilities
      and
      discontinued operations associated with one and six entities that were held
      for
      sale at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively (in thousands): 

(1) 

The
                decrease at September 30, 2006 reflects the sale of one owned and
                four FIN
                46 properties and the resolution of the corresponding mortgage loans
                that
                had been held for sale at September 30,
                2005. 

For
      further information, see Note 18 on discontinued operations. 

75 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      9   INVESTMENT SECURITIES AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE   

In
      fiscal
      2006, the Company s investment securities available-for-sale were carried at
      fair market value based on market quotes. Unrealized gains or losses, net of
      tax, were reported as a separate component of stockholders  equity. In fiscal
      2005, the Company s investment in RCC was carried at the lower of cost or
      market, whereas TBBK was carried at market value. 

The
      Company has invested in two affiliated publicly-traded companies, RCC and TBBK,
      in addition to CDO issuers it has sponsored and manages as follows (in
      thousands): 

In
      March
      2005, RCC completed a private placement of 15,333,334 shares of its common
      stock
      at a price of $15.00 per share. On February 10, 2006, RCC closed its initial
      public offering of 4,000,000 shares of common stock (including 1,879,200 shares
      sold by selling stockholders) at a price of $15.00 per share. The Company
      purchased 1,000,000 shares in the March 2005 offering and 900,000 shares in
      the
      February 2006 offering. In connection with the formation of RCC, the Company
      was
      granted 345,000 shares of restricted stock and options to purchase 651,666
      shares of common stock of RCC. Subsequently, the Company awarded 344,079 shares
      of the RCC restricted stock and 649,500 of the RCC options to officers and
      employees who provide management services to RCC.  

The
      Company held 482,009 and 532,009 shares of TBBK as of September 30, 2006 and
      2005, respectively, of which 358,290 and 408,290 shares were included in
      investment securities available for sale and 123,719 shares were included in
      other assets at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

Investments
      in financial fund management entities represent the Company s and SFF
      partnerships  investments in CDOs that the Company has sponsored and manages.
      These investments included investments in ten and five CDOs at September 30,
      2006 and 2005, respectively. 

76 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      10   INVESTMENTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITIES  

As
      a
      specialized asset manager, the Company develops various types of investment
      vehicles, including partnerships and TIC programs. The following table details
      these investments and the range of partnership interests owned accounted for
      using the equity method because the Company has the ability to exercise
      significant influence over their operating and financial decisions (in
      thousands): 

(1) 

Due
                to a change in the partnership agreements that gave the limited partners
                the right to remove the Company as the general partner in fiscal
                2006, the
                Company no longer consolidates two of these affiliated partnerships
                that
                had been consolidated at September 30, 2005. These partnerships,
                which
                invest in regional banks, are included in financial fund management
                partnerships at September 30, 2006 at a cost of $3.2 million. In
                addition,
                the Company has a $2.5 million investment in a hedge fund it
                manages. 

(2) 

As
                of September 30, 2005, the Company had sponsored and managed two
                TIC
                property interests. During the year ended September 30, 2006, these
                TIC
                interests were sold to third-party investors and two new TIC property
                interests were acquired. At September 30, 2006, substantially all
                of these
                interests have been sold to third-party
                investors. 

Historically, the Company has presented its equity earnings and losses of the
      Trapeza entities on a one-quarter delay as permitted under GAAP. Beginning
      with
      the period ended June 30, 2006, improvements in the timeliness and availability
      of financial data from the Trapeza entities have allowed the Company to report
      its share in those earnings on a current basis. As a result of this change,
      the
      Company s equity in earnings of the Trapeza entities of $1.4 million, net of tax
      of $983,000, for the three months ended September 30, 2005 is being reported
      as
      a cumulative change in accounting principle as of October 1, 2005. 

The
      Company has equity interests of 50% and 33.33% in the managers of the Trapeza
      CDO entities, Trapeza Capital Management, LLC and Trapeza Management Group,
      LLC,
      respectively. The Company does not consolidate these entities since it does
      not
      have control over them and reports the equity results of these entities on
      a
      current basis beginning in fiscal 2006. Summarized operating data for these
      entities is presented below (in thousands): 

77 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      11   PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT  

Property
      and equipment, net, consisted of the following (in thousands):  

(1) 

The
                decrease reflects the December 2005 resolution of one loan whose
                underlying assets were consolidated with the Company s assets pursuant to
                FIN 46. 

NOTE
      12 - BORROWINGS  

Borrowings
      consisted of the following (in thousands): 

Annual
      principal payments over the next five years ending September 30 and thereafter
      are as follows (in thousands): 

(1) 

Excludes
                $69.3 million related to credit facilities that will be transferred
                upon
                the execution of the associated CDO transactions and will not have
                to be
                repaid by the Company. 

Secured
      warehouse credit facilities  

In
      June
      2006, the Company entered into a $300.0 million warehouse credit facility with
      affiliates of Credit Suisse International to fund its purchases of bank loans
      in
      Europe. The Company is charged interest during the warehouse period at the
      European London Inter-bank Offered Rate plus 65 basis points (3.8% on borrowings
      outstanding of $66.4 million at September 30, 2006) in return for a
      participation interest in the interest earned on the loans. The warehouse credit
      facility will expire and interest will be payable upon the closing of the
      collateralized loan obligation which is expected to be completed by the second
      quarter of fiscal 2007. The facility agreement provides for a guarantee by
      the
      Company as well as an escrow deposit (see Notes 5 and 17).  

78 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      12 - BORROWINGS   (Continued)  

Secured
      warehouse credit facilities   (Continued)  

In
      August
      2006, the Company entered into a $350.0 million warehouse credit facility with
      affiliates of Credit Suisse Securities LLC to fund its purchases of bank loans.
      The Company is charged interest during the warehouse period at London Inter-Bank
      Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus 62.5 basis points (6.0% on borrowings outstanding of
      $2.9 million at September 30, 2006) in return for a participation interest
      in
      the interest earned on the loans. The warehouse credit facility will expire
      and
      interest will be payable upon the closing of the CDO, which is expected to
      be
      completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. The facility agreement provides
      for a guarantee by the Company as well as an escrow deposit (see Notes 5 and
      17). 

The
      Company had a warehouse facility at September 30, 2005 with Credit Suisse First
      Boston to fund the purchase of bank loans. This facility was terminated upon
      the
      closing of the underlying CDO in December 2005. 

Secured
      revolving credit facilities   commercial finance  

On
      July
      31, 2006, LEAF entered into a $150.0 million revolving warehouse credit facility
      with a group of banks led by National City Bank that expires July 31, 2009.
      Outstanding borrowings bear interest at one of two rates: (i) LIBOR plus 150
      basis points or (ii) the prime rate. As of September 30, 2006, the balance
      outstanding was $86.4 million at an interest rate of 6.9%. The average
      borrowings in fiscal 2006 were $60.6 million and the weighted average interest
      rate was 7.0%. The underlying equipment being leased or financed collateralizes
      the borrowings under this facility. The Company has guaranteed this facility
      up
      to a maximum of $75.0 million. 

In
      2005,
      the Company s commercial finance segment had two secured revolving credit
      facilities, both of which were repaid and terminated on July 31, 2006 with
      the
      proceeds from the Nat City Facility. At September 30, 2005, LEAF had a $15.0
      million secured credit facility with Commerce Bank with outstanding borrowings
      of $740,000 at an interest rate of 6.7%. In addition, LEAF had a $75.0 million
      facility with National City Bank with outstanding borrowings of $30.2 million
      at
      an interest rate of 5.8%. 

Real
      estate-mortgage loan  

On
      June
      30, 2006, the Company obtained a $12.5 million first mortgage on a hotel
      property in Savannah, Georgia. The mortgage is due on July 6, 2011. The loan
      bears interest at 6.9% until October 6, 2006 and requires monthly payments
      of
      $82,300 for principal and interest. Commencing November 6, 2006, the mortgage
      will have a 7.1% fixed rate and will require monthly payments of principal
      and
      interest of $84,220.  

Real
      estate-FIN 46 mortgage loans  

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, a VIE consolidated by the Company in accordance with FIN
      46-R is the obligor under an outstanding first mortgage loan secured by real
      estate with an outstanding balance totaling $1.5 million. The mortgage loan
      requires monthly payments of principal and interest at a fixed interest rate
      of
      8.80% and matures in July 2014. The mortgage loan is not a legal obligation
      of
      the Company; however, it is senior to the VIE s obligation to the Company. Loan
      payments are paid from the cash flow of the VIE. 

As
      of
      September 30, 2005, three VIEs consolidated by the Company in accordance with
      FIN 46-R held three outstanding first mortgage loans secured by real estate
      with
      outstanding balances totaling $18.5 million. These mortgages required monthly
      payments of principal and interest at fixed rates ranging from 5.25% to 8.80%.
      During fiscal 2006, the Company sold one of the properties and repaid the
      mortgage on a second property. 

79 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      12 - BORROWINGS   (Continued)  

Other
      debt  

Secured
      revolving credit facilities.       
      The
      Company has a $14.0 million revolving line of credit with Sovereign Bank
      expiring in July 2009 which is secured by certain real estate collateral and
      the
      market value of 700,000 shares of RCC stock. The availability under the facility
      is limited based on the value of the collateral. Outstanding borrowings bear
      interest at one of two rates elected at the Company s option: (i) LIBOR plus 200
      basis points or (ii) the prime rate. As of September 30, 2006, there were no
      outstanding borrowings and $11.4 million was available under this line.

The
      Company has a $25.0 million revolving line of credit with Commerce Bank expiring
      in August 2009 secured by collateral of 358,290 shares of TBBK stock and 1.2
      million shares of RCC stock held by the Company. The availability under the
      facility is limited based on the value of the collateral. Outstanding borrowings
      bear interest at one of two rates, elected at the Company s option: (i) LIBOR
      plus 2.25% or (ii) the prime rate plus 1%. As of September 30,
      2006, there were no outstanding borrowings and $22.1 million was available
      under
      this line.  

Notes.
         On
      June
      15, 2006, the Company borrowed $1.5 million from JP Morgan under a promissory
      note for the purchase of its equity investment in Trapeza X. The note requires
      quarterly payments of principal and interest at LIBOR plus 100 basis points
      (5.35% at September 30, 2006) and matures in July 2010. The Company s share of
      the equity distributions and its share of the collateral management fees from
      Trapeza X collaterized the borrowings under the note. The $1.5 million note
      remains outstanding at September 30, 2006. 

At
      September 30, 2006, the Company also has an outstanding balance of $950,000
      on a
      secured note with Sovereign Bank. The note, secured by the furniture and
      computer equipment of the Company s commercial finance business, requires
      monthly payments of principal and interest       of
      $18,796 over five years at a fixed interest rate of 6.87%.  

Covenants  

At
      September 30, 2006, the Company was in compliance with all of the financial
      covenants under its various debt agreements. These financial covenants are
      customary for the type and size of the related debt facilities and include
      minimum equity requirements as well as specified debt service coverage and
      leverage ratios. 

NOTE
      13 - INCOME TAXES  

The
      following table details the components of the Company's income taxes from
      continuing operations (in thousands): 

80 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      13 - INCOME TAXES   (Continued)  

A
      reconciliation between the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate and the
      Company's effective income tax rate is as follows: 

Deferred
      income taxes are provided for the effects of temporary differences between
      the
      tax basis of an asset or liability and its reported amount in the consolidated
      balance sheets. These temporary differences result in taxable or deductible
      amounts in future years. 

The
      components of the Company s net deferred tax liability were as follows (in
      thousands):  

As
      of
      September 30, 2005, the Company had a deferred tax asset of $5.3 million
      resulting from state net operating loss carryforwards ( NOLs ) of $77.9 million.
      A valuation allowance was established against substantially all of this deferred
      tax asset, based upon management s assessment at that time that it was more
      likely than not that the Company would not be able to utilize the NOLs prior
      to
      their expiration. 

During
      fiscal 2006, the Company implemented tax planning strategies that management
      believes make it more likely than not that the Company will be able to utilize
      approximately   $39.5
      million of the NOLs before their expiration.  Accordingly, $3.9 million of
      the prior year valuation allowance was  
      reversed
      in fiscal 2006. 

81 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      13 - INCOME TAXES   (Continued)  

In
      addition, the Company recorded a deferred tax asset in fiscal 2006 of $1.1
      million associated with $16.3 million of local NOLs for which management had
      previously believed would more likely than not be realized prior to their
      statutory expiration dates.  Management has established a valuation
      allowance of $228,000 against these NOLs for the portion it believes is unlikely
      to be realized in future years.  

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, the Company had available state and local NOLs of $89.9
      million which expire in the fiscal years 2007 through 2030. Management will
      continue to assess its estimates of the amount of NOLs that the Company will
      be
      able to utilize. The estimate of the required valuation allowances could be
      adjusted in the future if projections of taxable income are
      revised. 

NOTE
      14 - BENEFIT PLANS  

Employee
      Stock Plans.    During
      fiscal 2006, the Company had four employee stock plans, the 1997 plan, the
      1999
      plan, the 2002 plan and the 2005 plan. In fiscal 2005, all remaining options
      previously granted under the 1989 plan were exercised and the plan was
      terminated. Grants under the employee stock plans become exercisable 25% per
      year after the date of grant but may vest immediately at management s
      discretion; options granted expire no later than ten years after the date of
      grant. In fiscal 2005, options of certain employees were accelerated in order
      to
      lower compensation expense in future periods. 

In
      connection with the spin-off of Atlas America, the Company s shareholders
      received a distribution of 0.59367 shares of Atlas America common stock for
      each
      share owned of Resource America common stock. Holders of options to purchase
      shares of the Company s stock did not participate in this distribution. As a
      result, an adjustment was required to preserve the intrinsic value of these
      options at the time of the spin-off. In accordance with rules prescribed by
      FIN
      44,  Accounting for Certain Transaction Involving Stock Compensation - An
      Interpretation of APB 25  and Internal Revenue Service Treasury regulation
      section 1.424-1, the ratio of the exercise price per share to the market value
      per share could not be reduced and the aggregate intrinsic value of an option
      after the adjustment could not be greater than the intrinsic value immediately
      before the adjustment. To calculate the adjustment, the Company utilized the
      price of its stock on the date of the spin-off ($38.53) and the close of
      business on July 1, 2005 ($16.66). Activity as reflected for fiscal 2005 is
      based on the adjusted number of options and the adjusted exercise price assigned
      to those options. 

The
      Company s employee stock plans can authorize grants of shares of the Company s
      common stock in the form of ISOs, non-qualified stock options, and stock
      appreciation rights. The 2005 plan also permits the issuance of restricted
      stock, stock units, performance shares, stock awards, dividend equivalents
      and
      other stock-based awards. 

The
      following table reflects the shares authorized and available for grant by
      plan: 

82 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      14 - BENEFIT PLANS   (Continued)  

Transactions
      for employee stock options are summarized as follows:  

(1) 

Adjusted
                for shares of restricted stock that have been granted under the 2005
                plan. 

The
      following information applies to employee stock options outstanding as of
      September 30, 2006:  

Restricted
      stock.    In
      fiscal
      2006, the Company awarded 84,580 shares of restricted stock, with a total value
      of $1.5 million, under the 2005 plan of which 1,061 shares vested immediately
      and were issued. The remaining 83,519 shares vest over a four-year period.

Deferred
      Stock and Deferred Compensation    
      P    lans.
         In
      addition to the employee stock plans, the Company has two non-employee directors
      plans, the   1997
      Non-Employee Director Deferred Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan  
      (the
 1997 Director Plan ) and the 2002 Non-Employee Director Deferred Stock and
      Deferred Compensation Plan (the  2002 Director Plan ). Each unit granted under
      these plans represents the right to receive one share of the Company s common
      stock.  

The
      1997
      Director Plan has a maximum of 75,000 units (173,450 units, as adjusted for
      the
      spin-off) reserved for issuance which have all been issued. The fair value
      of
      the grants awarded (at an average of $5.84 per unit, as adjusted for the
      spin-off), $972,000 in total, has been charged to operations over the vesting
      period. As of September 30, 2006, there were 104,070 units vested and
      outstanding under this plan.  

83 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      14 - BENEFIT PLANS   (Continued)  

Each
      of
      the Company s non-employee directors ( Eligible Director ) is eligible to
      participate in the 2002 Director Plan, which was approved by stockholders on
      April 29, 2002. Upon becoming an Eligible Director, each Eligible Director
      receives units equal to $15,000 divided by   the
      closing price of   the
      Company s   common
      stock on the date of grant.   Eligible
      Directors receive an additional unit award   on
        each
      anniversary of the date of initial grant equal to $15,000 divided by
  the
      closing price of   the
      Company s   common
      stock on the date of grant  .
      Units
      vest on the later of: (i) the fifth anniversary of the date the recipient became
      an Eligible Director and (ii) the first anniversary of the grant of those units,
      except that units will vest sooner upon a change in control or death or
      disability of an Eligible Director, provided the Eligible Director has completed
      at least six months of service. Upon termination of service by an Eligible
      Director, vested units will become issued common stock, but all unvested units
      are forfeited. The 2002 Director Plan provides for the issuance of a maximum
      of
      75,000 units (approximately 173,450 units, as adjusted for the spin-off) and
      terminates on April 29, 2012, except with respect to previously awarded grants.
      The fair value of the grants awarded (at an average of $7.00 per unit, as
      adjusted for the spin-off), $330,000 in total, has been charged to operations
      over the vesting period. As of September 30, 2006, there were 36,611 units
      outstanding, of which 30,717 were vested. In fiscal 2006, the Company issued
      3,894 units (at an average of $19.26 per unit).  

Transactions
      for the two non-employee director plans are summarized as follows: 

Employee
      Stock Ownership Plan.   
      The
      Company sponsors an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP"), which is a qualified
      non-contributory retirement plan established to acquire shares of the Company's
      common stock for the benefit of its employees who are 21 years of age or older
      and have completed 1,000 hours of service for the Company. Contributions to
      the
      ESOP are funded by the Company as set forth in the plan. Additional
      contributions can be made at the discretion of the Board of Directors. In
      September 1998, the Company loaned $1.3 million to the ESOP which it used to
      acquire 105,000 shares of the Company's common stock. The ESOP loan receivable
      (reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as a reduction in stockholders'
      equity) is reduced by the principal portion of contributions made by the Company
      to the ESOP.  

The
      common stock purchased by the ESOP is held by the plan trustee. On an annual
      basis, the trustee releases a portion of the common stock as directed by the
      plan. As of September 30, 2006, there were 76,000 shares allocated to
      participants and 84,000 unallocated shares in the plan. The fair value of the
      unallocated shares was $1.7 million as of September 30, 2006. Compensation
      expense related to the plan was $147,000, $113,000 and $216,000
      for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.   

84 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     -    
      (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      14 - BENEFIT PLANS   (Continued)  

The
      ESOP
      owned 102,000 shares of Atlas America at September 30, 2005. In accordance
      with
      the spin-off agreement with Atlas America, the Company s ESOP was divided and a
      new ESOP plan for Atlas America employees was set up. This agreement also
      provided that the ESOP of the Company and Atlas America would exchange shares
      of
      each other s stock based on the fair market value at the time of the exchange.
      Any remaining Atlas America shares after the exchange were sold by the ESOP.
      As
      of September 30, 2006, the Company no longer holds any shares of Atlas America
      in its ESOP.  

Investment Savings Plan.   
        The
        Company sponsors an Investment Savings Plan under Section 401(k) of the Internal
        Revenue Code which allows employees to defer up to 15% of their income, subject
        to certain limitations, on a pretax basis through contributions to the savings
        plan. The Company matches up to 50% of each employee's contribution, subject
        to
        certain limitations. The Company expensed   
        $   351,000,
        $247,000 and $  356,000  
        for
        matching contributions for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.    

Supplemental Employment Retirement Plan.   
        Under
        the supplemental employment retirement plan ( SERP ) of E. Cohen, the Company
        pays an annual benefit of 75% of his average income. The benefit is payable
        during his life or for a period of 10 years from May 2004 (the date of his
        retirement as the Company s Chief Executive Officer to become chief executive
        officer and president of Atlas America), whichever is longer. E. Cohen continues
        to serve as the Company s Chairman of the Board. During fiscal 2006, 2005 and
        2004, operations were charged $355,000, $30,000 and $1.4 million, respectively,
        with respect to this plan. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company
        recorded a $720,000 reduction to expense related to an annual actuarial analysis
        of the SERP related to an increase in value of the SERP s assets relative to the
        remaining liability. A corresponding adjustment was made to reduce the SERP
        liability. Fiscal 2004 expense also included an actuarial adjustment as a
        result
        of the acceleration of E. Cohen s retirement as CEO of the Company. In June
        2004, the Company commenced making payments to E. Cohen under his SERP in
        connection with his retirement. The SERP made retirement distributions to
        E.
        Cohen of $837,000, $847,000 and $254,000 during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
        respectively (see Notes 2 and 15).  

NOTE
      15 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  

In
      the
      ordinary course of its business operations, the Company has ongoing
      relationships with several related entities. The following table details the
      receivables and payables with these related parties (in thousands):

85 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     -    
      (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      15 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  
(Continued)  

The
      Company receives fees, dividends and reimbursed expenses from several
      related/managed entities. In addition, the Company reimburses another related
      entity for certain operating expenses. The following table details those
      activities (in thousands): 

Relationship
      with Atlas America.    On
      June
      30, 2005, the Company completed the spin-off of Atlas America. Atlas America
      reimburses the Company for various costs and expenses it continues to incur
      on
      behalf of Atlas America, primarily payroll and rent. Certain operating
      expenditures totaling $265,000 that remain to be settled between the Company
      and
      Atlas America as of September 30, 2006 are reflected in the consolidated balance
      sheet as a receivable from related party.  

Relationship
      with Anthem Securities.    Anthem
      Securities, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Atlas America and a registered
      broker dealer, serves as the dealer-manager of investment programs sponsored
      by
      the Company s real estate and commercial finance segments. Some of the personnel
      performing services for Anthem have been on the Company s payroll and Anthem
      reimburses the Company for the allocable costs of such personnel. In addition,
      the Company has agreed to cover some of the operating costs for Anthem s office
      of supervisory jurisdiction, principally licensing fees and costs.  

Relationship
      with 1845 Walnut Associates Ltd.    The
      Company leases space in an office building in which it also
      owns a 30% equity interest in the partnership that owns the building, 1845
      Walnut Associates Ltd. The property is managed by Brandywine Construction
      and Management, Inc. ( BCMI ), as further described below.  

Relationship
      with 9 Henmar LLC ( 9 Henmar ).    The
      Company owns interests in the Trapeza entities that have sponsored CDO issuers
      and manage pools of trust preferred securities acquired by the CDO issuers.
      The
      Trapeza entities and CDO issuers were originated and developed in large part
      by
      Daniel G. Cohen ( D. Cohen ). Jonathan Z. Cohen ( J. Cohen ) , the President,
      Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, and D. Cohen are the
      sons
      of E. Cohen and Betsy Z. Cohen ( B. Cohen ). The Company agreed to pay D.
      Cohen s company, 9 Henmar, 10% of the fees the Company receives in connection
      with the first four Trapeza CDOs that we sponsored and manage. In fiscal 2006,
      2005 and 2004, the Company received $4.3 million, $4.0 million and $3.3 million
      of such fees from these transactions, net of expenses, respectively, and paid
      9
      Henmar $479,000, $438,000 and $326,000, respectively. 

86 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     -    
      (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      15 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  
(Continued)  

Relationship
      with Ledgewood P.C.   
      Until
      April 1996, E. Cohen was of counsel to Ledgewood. E. Cohen receives certain
      debt
      service payments from Ledgewood related to the termination of his affiliation
      with Ledgewood and its redemption of his interest. 

Relationship
      with RAIT Investment Trust ( RAIT ) (NYSE: RAS).   
      Organized by the Company in 1997, RAIT is a real estate investment trust in
      which the Company previously was a shareholder. As of September 30, 2006 and
      2005, the Company did not own any of the outstanding common shares or have
      any
      beneficial interest of RAIT. B. Cohen is the chief executive officer of RAIT
      and
      J. Cohen is vice chairman and secretary of RAIT.  

In
      December 2003, RAIT provided the Company a standby commitment for $10.0 million
      in bridge financing in connection with the retirement of the Company s senior
      debt. RAIT received a $100,000 facilitation fee from the Company in connection
      with providing this standby commitment. On January 15, 2004, the Company
      borrowed $10.0 million from RAIT and repaid it in full on January 21, 2004.
      In
      fiscal 2005 and 2004, the Company realized gains of $15.0 million and $9.5
      million from the sale of the shares of RAIT common stock it held. 

Relationship
      with Retirement Trusts.    The
      Company has established two trusts to fund the SERP for E. Cohen. The 1999
      Trust, a secular trust, purchased 100,000 shares of the common stock of TBBK
      with a market value of $2.5 million at September 30, 2006. This trust and its
      assets are not included in the Company s consolidated balance sheets. However,
      its assets are considered in determining the amount of the Company s liability
      under the SERP. The 2000 Trust, a  Rabbi Trust,  holds 123,719 shares of common
      stock of TBBK carried at market value which was $3.2 million at September 30,
      2006 and a loan to a limited partnership in which E. Cohen and D. Cohen own
      the
      beneficial interests. This loan was acquired for its outstanding balance of
      $720,000 by the 2000 Trust in April 2001 from a corporation of which E. Cohen
      was chairman and J. Cohen was the president. The loan balance as of September
      30, 2006 was $297,000. In addition, the 2000 Trust invested $1.0 million in
      Financial Securities Fund, an investment partnership which is managed by a
      corporation of which D. Cohen is the principal shareholder and a director.
      The
      partnership is being liquidated and the Company has received substantially
      all
      of its initial investment together with accumulated income, during fiscal 2006.
      The carrying value of the assets in the 2000 Trust was approximately $5.6
      million and $5.0 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These
      assets are included in other assets in the Company s consolidated balance
      sheets. The Company s liability under the SERP has not been reduced by the value
      of those assets (see Notes 2, 9 and 14).  

Relationship
      with The Bancorp, Inc.    The
      Company owns 3.5% of the outstanding common stock of TBBK. D. Cohen is the
      chairman and B. Cohen is the chief executive officer of TBBK and its subsidiary
      bank. At September 30, 2006, the Company had cash deposits of $282,000 at TBBK.
      In 2006, the Company sold 50,000 of its shares TBBK stock for $1.2 million
      and
      realized a gain of $668,000. 

Relationship
      with Certain Directors, Officers, Employees and Other Related
      Parties.   
      A
      wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company serves as the general partner of three
      partnerships that invest in regional domestic banks. The general partner may
      receive a carried interest of up to 20% upon meeting specific investor return
      rates. Some of the partnerships  investors wanted to ensure that certain
      individuals who are critical to the success of the partnerships participate
      in
      the carried interest. The total participation authorized by the Company s
      compensation committee was 48.5% of the 20% carried interest, of which J. Cohen,
      B. Cohen and E. Cohen received 10%, 7.5% and 5%, respectively. The remaining
      26%
      was received by six individuals, four of whom are employees of the
      Company  .  

Relationship
        with Brandywine Construction   Management, Inc.    BCMI
        manages the properties underlying four of the Company s real estate loans and
        certain real estate and FIN 46 assets. Adam Kauffman, President of BCMI,
        or an
        entity affiliated with him, has also acted as the general partner, president
        or
        trustee of three of the borrowers. E. Cohen, is the chairman of BCMI and
        holds
        approximately 8% of its common stock.  

87 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     -    
      (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      15 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  
(Continued)  

Relationship
      with Certain Borrowers.   
      The
      Company has from time to time purchased loans in which affiliates of the Company
      were or have become affiliates of the borrowers.  

In
      2002,
      D. Cohen acquired beneficial ownership of a property on which the Company had
      held a loan interest since 1998. In fiscal 2004, the Company recognized a gain
      of $100,000 on the sale of the loan to the highest bidder, which was an
      affiliate of D. Cohen. 

In
      2000,
      to protect the Company s interest, the property securing a loan held by the
      Company since 1997 was purchased by a limited partnership owned in equal parts
      by Scott F. Schaeffer, a former officer, Adam Kauffman, E. Cohen and D. Cohen.
      In September 2003, in furtherance of its position, the Company foreclosed on
      the
      property. In 2004, the property was sold for $5.0 million and the Company
      recognized a gain of $824,000, which was recorded in discontinued
      operations. 

Relationship
      with Lienholder   .
      In
      1997, the Company acquired a first mortgage lien with a face amount of $14.0
      million and a book value of $4.5 million on a hotel property owned by a
      corporation in which, on a fully diluted basis, J. Cohen and E. Cohen would
      have
      had a 19% interest. The corporation acquired the property through foreclosure
      of
      a subordinate loan. In May 2003, the Company acquired this property through
      further foreclosure proceedings and recorded write-downs of $2.7 million. In
      August 2004, the Company listed the property for sale, recorded a further
      write-down of $882,000 and classified the property as held for sale. In
      September 2005, the property was sold to an unrelated third party for cash
      of
      $332,000 and a note of $2.2 million which bore interest at a rate equal to
      the
      greater of eight percent (8%) per annum or the prime rate plus 150 basis points.
      The Company recorded a loss of $590,000 on the sale during the year ended
      September 30, 2005. The note was repaid in September 2006. 

NOTE
      16   OTHER INCOME, NET  

The
      following table details the Company s other income, net (in thousands):

(1) 

In
                fiscal 2002, the Company had charged operations $1.0 million for
                the
                amount of its maximum exposure relating to the settlement of a lawsuit.
                One of the Company s insurance carriers refused to participate in the
                settlement. The Company thereafter filed an action seeking recovery
                on its
                policy with that carrier. In the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the
                Company prevailed in its action against the carrier, received a $200,000
                cost reimbursement and accordingly, reversed the $1.0 million
                accrual. 

(2) 

The
                Company settled an action filed in the U.S. District Court for the
                District of Oregon by the former chairman of TRM Corporation and
                his
                children. The Company s Chairman and a former director and officer also
                had been named as defendants. The plaintiffs' claims were for breach
                of
                contract and fraud. The Company recorded a charge of $1.2 million,
                including related legal fees, in fiscal 2003. The Company subsequently
                filed an action against one of its directors  and officers  liability
                insurance carriers in connection with this settlement and recovered
                $1.4
                million in fiscal 2005.  

88 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     -    
      (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
      17 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  

The
      Company leases office space and equipment under leases with varying expiration
      dates through 2019. Rental expense was $1.6 million, $1.2 million and
      $  1.7
      million  
      for
      fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. At September 30, 2006, future minimum
      rental commitments were as follows (in thousands):  

In connection with the sale of a real estate loan in March 2006, the Company
        agreed that in exchange for the current property owner relinquishing certain
        critical control rights, the Company will make payments to the current property
        owner under certain stipulated circumstances, including the sale or foreclosure
        of the property or a subsequent resale of the loan. A payment of $2.6 million,
        increasing $16,234 per month to a maximum of $3.6 million, would be due upon
        the
        occurrence of specified events. In addition, the current property owner has
        the
        right to receive collateral as security for this obligation equal to or greater
        than 105% of the value of the obligation upon the occurrence of certain
        specified events or if the Company s net worth falls below $80.0 million. The
        Company s obligation runs through December 31, 2014. In addition, the Company
        agreed to partially indemnify the purchaser of the loan for a portion of
        the
        difference between ordinary income tax rates and capital gain rates on accrued
        interest on the note between the date of sale of the loan in March 2006 and
        December 31, 2011.  

Five
      real
      estate investment partnerships in which the Company has general partner
      interests have obtained senior lien financing with respect to the thirteen
      properties acquired. In addition, four TIC investment programs which the Company
      sponsored have obtained senior lien financing with respect to four acquired
      properties. These senior liens are with recourse only to the properties securing
      them subject to certain standard exceptions, which the Company guaranteed.
      These
      guarantees, totaling $268.9 million, expire as the related indebtedness is
      paid
      down over the next ten years. In addition, property owners have obtained senior
      lien financing with respect to four of the Company s loans. The senior liens are
      with recourse only to the properties securing them subject to certain standard
      exceptions, which the Company guaranteed. These guarantees expire as the related
      indebtedness is paid down over the next ten years.  

The
      Company has guaranteed its partner in one of its real estate partnerships
      against any losses, costs or damages that it may incur due to any fraud,
      bankruptcy, material misrepresentation or limited other intentional bad acts
      by
      the Company and terminates upon the earlier occurrence of (i) either the Company
      or its partner ceases to be a member of such partnership or (ii) termination
      of
      the operating agreement of the partnership. The Company s maximum liability is
      $1.1 million. 

In
      March
      2006, the Company entered into a warehouse agreement with JP Morgan Securities,
      Inc. which provides for guarantees by the Company on the first $2.3 million
      of
      losses on a portfolio of bank loans. This guarantee, secured by a $1.2 million
      cash deposit, expires upon the closing of the associated CDO which is expected
      in the second quarter of fiscal 2007 (see Notes 5 and 12). 

In
      June
      2006, the Company entered into a warehouse agreement with Credit Suisse
      International which provides for guarantees by the Company on the first $16.5
      million of losses on a portfolio of bank loans. This guarantee, secured by
      a
      $3.8 million cash deposit, expires upon the closing of the associated CDO which
      is anticipated in the second quarter of fiscal 2007 (see Notes 5 and
      12). 

89 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     -    
      (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2006  

NOTE
        17 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES   (Continued)  

In
        August
        2006, the Company entered into a warehouse agreement with Credit Suisse which
        provides for guarantees by the Company on the first $10.0 million of losses
        and
        8% of the balance on a portfolio of bank loans. This guarantee increases
        to
        $15.0 million and 8% of the warehouse balance of the portfolio of loans if
        another CDO transaction is not priced by February 7, 2007. This guarantee,
        secured by a $2.5 million cash deposit, expires upon the closing of the
        associated CDO which is expected in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 (see
        Notes
        5 and 12). 

As
        of
        September 30, 2006, the Company does not believe it is probable that any
        payments will be required under any of its indemnifications and accordingly,
        no
        liabilities for these obligations have been recorded in the consolidated
        financial statements.  

As a specialized asset manager, the Company sponsors investment funds in
        which
        it may make an equity investment along with outside investors. This equity
        investment is generally based on a percentage of funds raised and varies
        among
        investment programs.  

The
        Company is party to employment agreements with certain executives that provide
        for compensation and certain other benefits. The agreements also provide
        for
        severance payments under certain circumstances. 

The
        Company is party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of the
        ordinary course of its business. Management believes that none of these actions,
        individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on
        the
        Company s financial condition or operations. 

NOTE
      18 - DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

Energy.
         Results
      of the operations of Atlas America through the date of its spin-off from the
      Company in June 2005 have been reflected as discontinued operations. In fiscal
      2006, additional spin-off costs incurred by the Company have been reported
      as a
      loss on disposal. In fiscal 2005, the loss on disposal reflected a non-cash
      charge of $1.3 million related to the acceleration of stock options held by
      Atlas America employees, in addition to legal, accounting and valuation fees
      related to the spin-off.      Summarized
      operating results of the energy operations of Atlas America are as follows
      (in
      thousands): 

Real
      Estate.    Based
      on
      the Company s intent to sell its interests, certain operations have been
      classified as discontinued and the related assets and liabilities as held for
      sale. These operations include those of four real estate entities as of
      September 30, 2005 that are consolidated under the provisions of FIN 46-R and
      the operations of one and two real estate properties owned by the Company at
      September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Summarized operating results of
      discontinued real estate operations held for sale are as follows (in
      thousands): 

90 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     -    
      (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2005  

NOTE
      18 - DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS   (Continued)  

Other.
         The
      Company has two other discontinued entities which reported combined income
      (loss) from discontinued operations as follows (in thousands): 

Total.    Summarized
      discontinued operating results of all entities are as follows (in
      thousands): 

NOTE
      19     -    
      OPERATING SEGMENTS  

The
      Company s operations include four reportable operating segments that reflect the
      way the Company manages its operations and makes business decisions. In addition
      to its reporting operating segments, certain other activities are reported
      in
      the  all other  category. Segment profit (loss) represents income from
      continuing operations before income taxes. Summarized operating segment data
      are
      as follows (in thousands):  

91 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     -    
      (Continued)  

       SEPTEMBER
      30, 2005  

NOTE
      19     -    
      OPERATING SEGMENTS   (Continued)  

92 

RESOURCE
        AMERICA, INC.  

         NOTES
        TO CONSOLIDATED FINA0NCIAL STATEMENTS     -    
        (Continued)  

         SEPTEMBER
        30, 2006  

NOTE
        20 - QUARTERLY RESULTS (Unaudited)      (1)   

(1)    
             
                Certain
                components of quarterly net income (loss) disclosed above differ
                from
                those as reported on the Company s respective quarterly Forms 10-Q. The
                spin-off costs and operation results of Atlas America and the gains
                and
                losses from the disposition of certain real estate assets and their
                related historical operating results have been reclassified as
                discontinued operations for all periods presented (see Note
                18). 

(2)    
             
                Reflects
                the cumulative adjustment from the elimination of the quarterly reporting
                lag for the Company s investments in the Trapeza entities (see Note
                10). 

93 

ITEM
      9.       CHANGES
      IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS   ON
      ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE    

None. 

ITEM
      9A.          CONTROLS
      AND PROCEDURES  

MANAGEMENT S
      REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  

Our
      management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
      control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and
      15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Because of its inherent limitations, internal
      control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
      Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
      to
      the risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
      or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
      deteriorate.  

We
      maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that
      information required to be disclosed in our Securities Exchange Act of 1934
      reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
      specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms, and that
      such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including
      our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate,
      to
      allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and
      evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognized
      that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated,
      can
      provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives,
      and our management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating
      the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. 

Under
      the
      supervision of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and
      with
      the participation of our disclosure committee, we have carried out an evaluation
      of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end
      of
      the period covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief
      Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure
      controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance
      level. 

Management
      assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
      as
      of September 30, 2006. In making this assessment, management used the criteria
      set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
      Commission ( COSO ) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework   .     

Based
      on
      this assessment, management believes that, as of September 30, 2006, our
      internal control over financial reporting is effective.  

Our
      independent auditors have issued an audit report on our assessment of our
      internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on page 95 of
      this annual report on Form 10-K.  

There
      have been no significant changes in our internal controls over financial
      reporting that has partially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
      affect, our internal control over financial reporting during our most recent
      fiscal year. 

94 

REPORT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

Stockholders
      and Board of Directors 

       RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

We
      have
      audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management s
      Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Resource America,
      Inc.
      (a Delaware Corporation) maintained effective internal control over financial
      reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
      Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
      of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  Resource America Inc.'s management is
      responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
      and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
      reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's
      assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control
      over financial reporting based on our audit. 

We
      conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
      internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
      respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
      control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing
      and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control,
      and
      performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
      circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for
      our opinions.  

A
      company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal
      control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
      (1)
      pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
      and
      fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
      (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
      to
      permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
      accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
      being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
      of
      the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
      detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's
      assets that could have a material effect on the financial
      statements. 

Because
      of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
      not
      prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

In
      our
      opinion, management's assessment that Resource America, Inc. maintained
      effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006,
      is
      fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in
      Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
      Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  Also in our opinion,
      Resource America, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
      control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria
      established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
      of
      Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).    

We
      have
      also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Resource
      America, Inc. and its subsidiaries as of September 30, 2006     
      and
      2005, and the related statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity and
      comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
      ended September 30, 2006, and our report dated December 8, 2006 expressed an
      unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 

/s/
      GRANT THORNTON LLP  

Cleveland,
      Ohio 

      December
      8, 2006 

95 

ITEM
      9B.          OTHER
      INFORMATION  

None. 

96 

PART
      III  

ITEM
      10.        DIRECTORS
      AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

The
      Board
      of Directors is divided into three classes with directors in each class serving
      three year terms.   Information
      is set forth below regarding the principal occupation of each of our directors.
      There are no family relationships among the directors and executive officers
      except that Jonathan Z. Cohen, our President, Chief Executive Officer and a
      director, is a son of Edward E. Cohen, the Chairman of our Board of Directors.

The
      Board
      of Directors as a whole fulfills the responsibilities of the Nominating
      Committee, which includes recommending persons for nomination as directors
      of
      the Company. Director nominees are selected by a majority of the independent
      directors. The Board of Directors will consider formal nominations recommended
      to our Secretary by security holders beginning with the 2007 annual meeting
      of
      stockholders. 

Michael
      J. Bradley,    62,
      has
      been a member of our Board of Directors since 2005. Co-owner and Managing
      Director of BF Healthcare, Inc. (a supplier of physician services to hospitals
      and assisted living facilities) since 1999. Director of The Bancorp, Inc. (a
      publicly-traded bank holding company) since 2005. Managing Board Member of
      Atlas
      Pipeline Partners GP, LLC (general partner of a publicly-traded natural gas
      pipeline limited partnership) from 2004 to 2005. Chairman of the Board of First
      Executive Bank from 1988 to 1998. Vice Chairman of First Republic Bank from
      1998
      to 2003. 

Carlos
      C. Campbell   ,
      69, has
      been a member of our Board of Directors since 1990. President of C.C. Campbell
      and Company (a management consulting firm) since 1985. Director of PICO
      Holdings, Inc. (a publicly-traded diversified holding company) since 1998.
      Director of Herley Industries, Inc. (a publicly-traded RF/microwave solutions
      company) since 2005. 

Edward
      E. Cohen   ,
      67, has
      been a member of our Board of Directors since 1988. Chairman of our Board since
      1990. Chief Executive Officer from 1988 to 2004. President from 2000 to 2003.
      Chairman of the Board of Resource Capital Corp. (a publicly-traded real estate
      investment trust managed by us) since its formation in 2005. Chairman of the
      Managing Board of Atlas Pipeline Partners GP, LLC (a wholly-owned subsidiary
      of
      Atlas America that is the general partner of Atlas Pipeline Partners, L.P.)
      since its formation in 1999. Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
      of
      Atlas America, Inc. (a publicly-traded energy company formerly owned by us)
      since its formation in 2000. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Atlas
      Pipeline Holdings GP, LLC (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Atlas America that
      is
      the general partner of Atlas Pipeline Holdings, L.P., a publicly traded limited
      partnership that holds certain interests in and common units of Atlas Pipeline
      Partners, L.P.) since its formation in 2006. Director of TRM Corporation (a
      publicly-traded consumer services company) since 1998.   Chairman
      of the Board of Brandywine Construction   Management, Inc. (a property
      management company) since 1994. 

Jonathan
      Z. Cohen,   
      36, has
      been a member of our Board of Directors since 2002. President since 2003, Chief
      Executive Officer since 2004 and a Director since 2002. Chief Operating Officer
      from 2002 to 2004. Executive Vice President from 2001 to 2003. Senior Vice
      President from 1999 to 2001. Chief Executive Officer, President and a Director
      of Resource Capital Corp. since its formation in 2005. Vice Chairman of the
      Managing Board of Atlas Pipeline Partners GP, LLC since its formation in 1999.
      Vice Chairman and a Director of Atlas America since its formation in 2000.
      Vice
      Chairman of Atlas Pipeline Holdings GP, LLC since its formation in 2006. Trustee
      of RAIT Investment Trust (a publicly-traded real estate investment trust) since
      1997. Secretary of RAIT since 1998 and Vice Chairman of RAIT since 2003.

Kenneth
      A. Kind,    53,
      has
      been a member of our Board of Directors since 2004. Vice President of
      Medi-Promotions, Inc. (a healthcare advertising company) since 1991. Director
      of
      Van Ameringen Foundation (a private charitable foundation) since
      1995. 

Andrew
      M. Lubin   ,
      60, has
      been a member of our Board of Directors since 1994. President of Delaware
      Financial Group, Inc. (a private investment firm) since 1990. 

97 

John
      S. White   ,
      66, has
      been a member of our Board of Directors since 1993. Senior Vice President of
      Royal Alliance Associates, Inc. (an independent broker/dealer), a wholly-owned
      subsidiary of American International Group, from 2002 to 2006. Chief Executive
      Officer and President of DCC Securities Corporation (a securities brokerage
      firm) from 1989 to 2002. 

Non-Director
      Executive Officers   

The
      Board
      of Directors appoints officers each year at its annual meeting following the
      annual stockholders meeting and from time to time as necessary. 

Thomas
      C. Elliott   ,
      33,
      Senior Vice President - Finance and Operations since 2006. Senior Vice President
      - Finance from 2005 to 2006. Vice President - Finance from 2001 to 2005. Chief
      Financial Officer of Resource Financial Fund Management, Inc. since 2004. Chief
      Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer of Resource Capital
      Corp., a publicly-traded real estate investment trust managed by a subsidiary
      of
      ours, from 2005 to 2006 and Senior Vice President - Finance and Operations
      since
      2006. From 1997 to 2001, Mr. Elliott held various financial positions at
      Fidelity Leasing, Inc., a former subsidiary of ours, including Manager of
      Financial Planning, Director of Asset Securitization and Treasurer.

Alan
      F. Feldman,    43,
      Senior Vice President since 2002. Chief Executive Officer of Resource Real
      Estate, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary) since 2004. Senior Vice President
      -
      Real Estate Investments of Resource Capital Corp. since 2005. Vice President
      at
      Lazard Freres   Co. (an investment bank) from 1998 to 2002. Executive Vice
      President at PREIT-Rubin, Inc., the management subsidiary of Pennsylvania Real
      Estate Investment Trust (a publicly-traded real estate investment trust) and
      its
      predecessor, The Rubin Organization, from 1992 to 1998.  

Steven
      J. Kessler,   
      63,
      Executive Vice President since 2005 and Chief Financial Officer since 1997.
      Senior Vice President from 1997 to 2005. Senior Vice President - Finance of
      Resource Capital Corp. since 2005. Vice President - Finance and Acquisitions
      at
      Kravco Company (a national shopping center developer and operator) from 1994
      to
      1997. From 1983 to 1993, Mr. Kessler worked for Strouse Greenberg   Co., a
      regional full service real estate company, ending as Chief Financial Officer
      and
      Chief Operating Officer. Prior thereto, Partner at Touche Ross   Co. (now
      Deloitte   Touche LLP), independent public accountants. Trustee of GMH
      Communities Trust (a publicly-traded specialty housing real estate investment
      trust) since 2004.  

Michael
      S. Yecies,    39,
      Senior Vice President since 2005 and Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since
      1998. Vice President from 1998 to 2005. Chief Legal Officer and Secretary of
      Resource Capital Corp. since 2005. Attorney at Duane Morris LLP (an
      international law firm) from 1994 to 1998. 

Other
      Significant Employees  

The
      following sets forth certain information regarding other significant
      employees: 

David
      E. Bloom,    42,
      Senior Vice President since 2001. President of Resource Capital Partners, Inc.
      (a wholly-owned real estate subsidiary) from 2002 to 2006. President of Resource
      Real Estate, Inc. since 2004. Senior Vice President at Colony Capital, LLC
      (an
      international real estate opportunity fund) from 1999 to 2001. Director at
      Sonnenblick-Goldman Company (a real estate investment bank) from 1998 to 1999.
      Attorney at Willkie Farr   Gallagher (an international law firm) from 1996
      to 1998.  

Crit
      S. DeMent   ,
      54,
      Senior Vice President since 2005. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of LEAF
      Financial (a majority-owned commercial finance subsidiary) since 2001. President
      of the Technology Finance Group of CitiCapital Vendor Finance in 2001. President
      of the Small Ticket Group of European American Bank, a division of ABN AMRO,
      from 2000 to 2001. President and Chief Operating Officer of Fidelity Leasing,
      Inc. (a former subsidiary) from 1996 to 2000. 

98 

Information
      Concerning the Audit Committee   

Our
      Board
      of Directors has a standing Audit Committee. Members of the Committee are
      Messrs. Lubin (Chairman), Bradley and Campbell. All of the members of the Audit
      Committee are independent directors as defined by Nasdaq rules. The Board of
      Directors has determined that Mr. Bradley is an  audit committee financial
      expert  as defined by SEC rules. The Committee held five meetings during fiscal
      2006.  

Code
      of Ethics  

We
      have
      adopted a code of business conduct and ethics applicable to all directors,
      officers and employees. We will provide to any person without charge, upon
      request, a copy of our code of conduct. Any such request should be directed
      to
      us as follows: Resource America, Inc., 1845 Walnut Street, Suite 1000,
      Philadelphia, PA 19103, Attention: Secretary. Our code of conduct is also
      available on our website:    www.resourceamerica.com   . 

Section
      16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  

Section
      16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires our officers, directors
      and persons who own more than ten percent of a registered class of our equity
      securities to file reports of ownership and changes in ownership with the SEC
      and to furnish us with copies of all such reports. 

Based solely on our review of the reports received by us, or written
      representations from certain reporting persons, no filings were required
      for those persons. 

99 

ITEM
      11.        EXECUTIVE
      COMPENSATION      

Executive
      Officer Compensation  

The
      following table sets forth certain information concerning the compensation
      paid
      or accrued during each of the last three fiscal years for our Chief Executive
      Officer and each of our four other most highly compensated executive officers
      whose aggregate salary and bonus (including amounts of salary and bonus foregone
      to receive non-cash compensation) exceeded $100,000: 

Summary
      Compensation Table   

(2) 

Reflects
                allocations of shares to employee accounts under our Employee Stock
                Ownership Plan, or ESOP. Share allocations under the ESOP have been
                valued
                at the closing price of our common stock at September 30, 2006, 2005
                and
                2004, respectively. Fiscal 2006 ESOP share allocations include exchanges
                of Atlas America, Inc. common stock acquired as a result of our spin-off
                of Atlas America in fiscal 2005 for equal values of our common stock.
                For
                purposes of this table, all ESOP shares are assumed to be fully vested.
                As
                of September 30, 2006, Messrs. Cohen, Elliott, Kessler and Yecies
                were
                fully vested and Mr. Feldman was 40% vested. ESOP shares vest 20%
                after
                three years of service and 20% per year thereafter. At September
                30, 2006,
                the number of restricted shares held and the value of those restricted
                shares (in the aggregate, and valued at the closing market price
                of our
                common stock on September 30, 2006) were: Mr. Cohen - 2,237 shares
                ($46,530); Mr. Kessler - 2,331 shares ($48,485); Mr. Feldman - 677
                shares
                ($14,082); Mr. Elliott - 773 shares ($16,078); and Mr. Yecies - 1,815
                shares ($37,752). Cash dividends, as and when authorized by our Board
                of
                Directors, have been and will continue to be paid to the ESOP on
                the
                restricted shares.  

(3) 

Reflects
                matching payments we made under our 401(k) Plan, grants in fiscal
                2005 and
                2004 of phantom units under the Atlas Pipeline Long Term Incentive
                Plan,
                and stock option grants in fiscal 2006 and restricted stock grants
                in 2005
                of RCC common stock under the RCC Stock Incentive Plan, as detailed
                below.
                The amount set forth for Mr. Cohen in fiscal 2005 also includes (i)
                the
                value of unexercised in-the-money stock options granted under the
                Atlas
                America, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, valued by subtracting the total
                exercise price from the fair market value of the securities underlying
                the
                options at September 30, 2005: 200,000 options ($2,128,000) and (ii)
                payments of $13,018 to a law firm in connection with its representation
                of
                Mr. Cohen in reviewing Mr. Cohen s employment agreement with the

100 

Option/SAR
      Grants and Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option
      Values  

We
      did
      not grant any stock options or stock appreciation rights to the named executive
      officers in fiscal 2006.  

The
      following table sets forth the aggregated option exercises during fiscal 2006,
      together with the number of unexercised options and their value on September
      30,
      2006, held by the executive officers listed in the Summary Compensation Table.
      No stock appreciation rights were exercised or held by the named executive
      officers in fiscal 2006. 

Aggregated
      Option Exercises In Last Fiscal Year  

       and
      Fiscal Year-End Option Values  

(1) 

Value
                is calculated by subtracting the total exercise price from the fair
                market
                value of the securities underlying the options at the date of exercise.

(2) 

Value
                is calculated by subtracting the total exercise price from the fair
                market
                value of the securities underlying the options at September 30,
                2006. 

Employment
      Agreements       

Jonathan
      Z. Cohen currently serves as our Chief Executive Officer, President and a
      director under an employment agreement dated October 5, 1999. The agreement
      requires Mr. Cohen to devote as much of his business time to us as necessary
      to
      the fulfillment of his duties, although it permits him to have outside business
      interests. The agreement provides for initial base compensation of $200,000
      per
      year, which may be increased by the Compensation Committee of the Board based
      upon its evaluation of Mr. Cohen's performance. Mr. Cohen is eligible to receive
      incentive bonuses and equity compensation grants in amounts to be determined
      by
      the Board and to participate in all employee benefit plans in effect during
      his
      period of employment.  

The
      agreement has a term of three years and, until notice to the contrary, the
      term
      is automatically extended so that, on any day on which the agreement is in
      effect, it has a then-current three year term. The agreement can be terminated
      sooner in the event of Mr. Cohen s disability extending for more than 240 days
      or death. Mr. Cohen also has the right to terminate the agreement upon a change
      in control or potential change in control and for cause. Otherwise, Mr. Cohen
      can terminate the agreement upon 180 days notice. 

101 

The
      agreement provides the following termination benefits: (i) upon termination
      due
      to death, Mr. Cohen s estate will receive an amount equal to three times Average
      Compensation (defined as the average of the annual total compensation received
      by Mr. Cohen in the three most highly compensated years during the previous
      nine
      years of employment) (payable over 36 months); (ii) upon termination due to
      disability, Mr. Cohen will receive a monthly benefit equal to one-twelfth of
      the
      product of (a) Average Compensation and (b) 75%; and (iii) upon termination
      by
      Mr. Cohen for cause, or upon a change in control or potential change in control,
      an amount equal to three times Average Compensation plus continuation of life,
      health, accident and disability insurance benefits for a period of 36 months.
      In
      the event that any amounts payable to Mr. Cohen pursuant to items (i) through
      (iii), above, which we refer to as Total Benefits, become subject to any excise
      tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, we must
      pay
      Mr. Cohen an additional sum such that the net amounts retained by Mr. Cohen,
      after payment of excise, income and withholding taxes, shall equal Total
      Benefits. 

The
      terms
      of our employment agreement with Steven J. Kessler as of October 1999 are
      substantially similar to the terms of our employment agreement with Mr. J.
      Cohen, described above, except as follows: Mr. Kessler currently serves as
      Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Kessler s initial base
      compensation is $300,000 per year, Mr. Kessler is not expressly permitted to
      have outside business interests and Mr. Kessler does not have the right to
      terminate the agreement upon a potential change in control. 

Michael S. Yecies currently serves as our   Senior
      Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary   under
      an
      employment agreement dated November 17, 2006. The agreement requires Mr. Yecies
      to devote substantially all of his time and attention to us as necessary to
      the
      fulfillment of his duties  .
        The
      agreement provides for initial base compensation of $210,000 per year, which
      may
      be increased by the Compensation Committee of the Board based upon its
      evaluation of Mr. Yecies' performance. Mr. Yecies is eligible to receive
      incentive bonus payments, stock option grants, restricted stock grants and
      other
      forms of incentive compensation in amounts to be determined by the Board and
      to
      participate in all employee benefit plans in effect during his period of
      employment.  

The
      agreement has a term of one year and, until notice to the contrary, the term
      is
      automatically extended so that, on any day on which the agreement is in effect,
      it has a then-current one year term. The agreement can be terminated sooner
      in
      the event of Mr. Yecies  disability extending for more than 180 days or death.
      Mr. Yecies also has the right to terminate the agreement upon a change in
      control and for cause. Otherwise, Mr. Yecies can terminate the agreement upon
      180 days' notice. 

The
      agreement provides the following termination benefits: (i) upon termination
      due
      to death, Mr. Yecies  estate will receive an amount equal to: (a) any earned but
      unpaid portion of Mr. Yecies' base salary; (b) any accrued but unpaid vacation
      pay; (c) an amount equal to one (1) year s base compensation as of the date of
      death; and (d) an amount equal to the value of all incentive compensation
      (excluding stock options grants) received by Mr. Yecies during the prior year
      ending on the date of death; (ii) upon termination due to disability, Mr. Yecies
      will receive his base compensation and any incentive compensation (excluding
      stock option grants) until the expiration of the term; (iii) upon termination
      by
      Mr. Yecies for cause, or by us not for cause, Mr. Yecies will receive his annual
      base compensation for a period of one year; and (iv) upon termination following
      a change in control, Mr. Yecies will receive amounts equal to all compensation
      and benefits he would have received through the end of the term. 

The
      terms
      of our employment agreement with Thomas C. Elliott as of November 17, 2006
      are
      substantially similar to the terms of our employment agreement with Mr. Yecies,
      described above, except as follows: Mr. Elliott currently serves as Senior
      Vice
      President - Finance and Operations and Mr. Elliott s initial base compensation
      is $200,000 per year. 

102 

Director
      Compensation  

Each
      of
      our independent directors receives a retainer of $35,000 per year and is
      eligible to participate in our 2002 Non-Employee Director Deferred Stock and
      Deferred Compensation Plan, referred to as the 2002 Plan, which was approved
      by
      our stockholders on April 29, 2002. Under the 2002 Plan, non-employee directors,
      Eligible Directors are awarded units representing the right to receive one
      share
      of our common stock for each unit awarded. Upon becoming an Eligible Director,
      each Eligible Director receives units equal to $15,000 divided by   the
      closing price of our common stock on the date of grant.   Eligible
      Directors receive an additional unit award equal to $15,000 divided by
  the
      closing price of our common stock on   each
      anniversary of the date of initial grant. Units vest on the later of: (i) the
      fifth anniversary of the date the recipient became an Eligible Director and
      (ii)
      the first anniversary of the grant of those units, except that units will vest
      sooner upon a change in control or death or disability of an Eligible Director,
      provided the Eligible Director completed at least six months of service. Upon
      termination of service by an Eligible Director, vested units will become issued
      common stock, but all unvested units are forfeited. The 2002 Plan provides
      for
      the issuance of a maximum of 75,000 units (173,454 units, as adjusted for the
      spin-off) and terminates on April 29, 2012, except with respect to previously
      awarded grants. As of the date of this annual report, we have five Eligible
      Directors and 49,486 units, as adjusted, have been awarded to such Eligible
      Directors under the 2002 Plan.  

Mr.
      E.
      Cohen received $  750,000
        in
      fiscal
      2006 for his service as the Chairman of our Board of Directors. In fiscal 2006,
      Mr. E. Cohen also received  
      a grant
      of 5,790 shares of our common stock, vesting 25% per year over four years;
      a
      grant of options to acquire 25,000 shares of RCC common stock at an exercise
      price of $15.00 per share, vesting one-third per year over three years; and
      payment of $837,000 pursuant to a Supplemental Employment Retirement Plan we
      established as part of Mr. E. Cohen s former employment agreement with us that
      pays Mr. E. Cohen a monthly retirement benefit. Mr. E. Cohen currently holds
      vested options exercisable for 1,034,001 shares of our common stock. Except
      for
      options with respect to 80,000 shares referred to above, all of such options
      were granted to Mr. E. Cohen when he was our Chief Executive Officer.

Compensation
      Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  

The
      Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors consists of Messrs. Campbell,
      Kind and White. Mr. Campbell is the chairman of the Committee. None of such
      persons was an officer or employee of ours or any of our subsidiaries during
      fiscal 2006 or was formerly an officer of ours or any of our subsidiaries.
      None
      of our executive officers has been a director or executive officer of any entity
      of which any member of the Compensation Committee has been a director or
      executive officer during fiscal year 2006. 

103 

ITEM
      12.        SECURITY
      OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
      RELATED  

STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

The
      following table sets forth the number and percentage of shares of common stock
      owned, as of December 1, 2006, by (a) each person who, to our knowledge, is
      the
      beneficial owner of more than 5% of the outstanding shares of common stock,
      (b)
      each of our present directors, (c) each of the executive officers named in
      the
      Summary Compensation Table in Item 11, and (d) all of the named executive
      officers and directors as a group. This information is reported in accordance
      with the beneficial ownership rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission
      under which a person is deemed to be the beneficial owner of a security if
      that
      person has or shares voting power or investment power with respect to such
      security or has the right to acquire such ownership within 60 days. Shares
      of
      common stock issuable pursuant to options or warrants are deemed to be
      outstanding for purposes of computing the percentage of the person or group
      holding such options or warrants but are not deemed to be outstanding for
      purposes of computing the percentage of any other person.   Unless
      otherwise indicated in footnotes to the table, each person listed has sole
      voting and dispositive power with respect to the securities owned by such
      person.  

*
      Less
      than 1% 

(1) 

Includes
                vested units representing the right to receive one share of common
                stock
                per unit granted under our 1997 Non-Employee Directors Deferred Stock
                and
                Deferred Compensation Plan in the following amounts: Mr. Campbell
                - 34,690
                units; Mr. Lubin - 34,690 units; and Mr. White - 34,690 units.

(5) 

Includes
                2,312 shares issuable on exercise of options granted under our 1997
                Key
                Employee Stock Option Plan. 

104 

(9) 

Includes
                449,516 shares held by a private charitable foundation of which Mr.
                E.
                Cohen serves as a co-trustee. Mr. E. Cohen disclaims beneficial ownership
                of these shares   .

(10) 

Includes
                92,500 shares held in trusts for the benefit of Mr. E. Cohen s spouse
                and/or children. Mr. E. Cohen disclaims beneficial ownership of these
                shares. 46,250 of these shares are also included in the shares referred
                to
                in footnote 11 below. 

(11) 

Includes
                46,250 shares held in a trust of which Mr. J. Cohen is a co-trustee
                and
                co-beneficiary. These shares are also included in the shares referred
                to
                in footnote 10 above. 

(14) 

This
                information is based on Schedule 13G/A filed with the SEC on February
                6,
                2006. Dimensional Fund Advisors Inc. ( Dimensional ), an investment
                advisor registered under Section 203 of the Investment Advisors Act
                of 1940, furnishes investment advice to four investment companies
                registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and serves as
                investment manager to certain other commingled group trusts and separate
                accounts. It refers to these investment companies, trusts and accounts
                as
                the Funds. In its role as investment advisor or manager, Dimensional
                possesses investment and/or voting power over 976,744 shares of the
                Company s common stock as of December 31, 2005. The Funds own all of
                these securities. Dimensional disclaims beneficial ownership of such
                securities. The address for Dimensional Fund Advisors Inc. is 1299
                Ocean
                Avenue, 11   th   
                Floor, Santa Monica, California
                90401. 

(16) 

The
                address for all our directors and officers is One Cresent Drive,
                Suite
                203, Navy Yard Corporate Center, Philadelphia, PA
                19112. 

Equity
      Compensation Plan Information  

The
      following table summarizes certain information about our compensation plans,
      in
      the aggregate, as of September 30, 2006: 

(a)  

(b)  

(c)  

Plan
                category  

Number
                of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options,

Warrants
                and Rights  

Weighted-Average
                Exercise Price of Outstanding Options,   

                 Warrants
                and Rights  

Number
                of Securities Remaining Available  

                  for
                Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation  

                  Plans
                Excluding Securities   

                 Reflected
                in Column (a)  

Equity
                compensation plans  

                  approved
                by security   holders 

3,865,296 

$  7.54 

821,698 

105 

ITEM
      13.        CERTAIN
      RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  

In
      the
      ordinary course of our business operations, we have ongoing relationships with
      several related entities. The following table details the receivables and
      payables with these related parties (in thousands):  

We
      receive fees, dividends and reimbursed expenses from several related/managed
      entities. In addition, we reimburse another related entity for certain operating
      expenses. The following table details those activities (in
      thousands): 

Year
                Ended  

                 September
                30, 2006  

Financial
                Fund Management -   
                fees from managed entities    

$ 

8,726 

Real
                Estate   
                -
                fees from investment partnerships and TIC property interests    

11,452 

Commercial
                finance   
                -
                fees from investment partnerships    

5,816 

RCC:  

Fees
                and equity compensation    

8,203 

Reimbursement
                of expenses from RCC 

718 

Dividends
                received 

2,722 

Atlas
                America   
                -
                reimbursement of net costs and expenses    

1,303 

Anthem
                Securities:  

Payment
                of operating expenses    

(1,166 

) 

Reimbursement
                of costs and expenses from Anthem Securities 

2,906 

1845
                Walnut Associates Ltd -    payment
                of rent and operating expenses    

(450 

) 

9
                Henmar LLC -    payment
                of broker/consulting fees    

(479 

) 

Ledgewood
                P.C. -    payment
                of legal services    

(472 

) 

Relationship
      with Atlas America.    On
      June
      30, 2005, we completed the spin-off of Atlas America. Atlas America reimburses
      us for various costs and expenses we continue to incur on behalf of Atlas
      America, primarily payroll and rent. Certain operating expenditures totaling
      $265,000 that remain to be settled between us and Atlas America as of September
      30, 2006 are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as a receivable from
      related party.  

Relationship
      with Anthem Securities.    Anthem
      Securities, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Atlas America and a registered
      broker dealer, serves as the dealer-manager of investment programs sponsored
      by
      our real estate and commercial finance segments. Some of the personnel
      performing services for Anthem have been on our payroll and Anthem reimburses
      us
      for the allocable costs of such personnel. In addition, we agreed to pay some
      of
      the operating costs for Anthem s office of supervisory jurisdiction, principally
      licensing fees and costs.  

106 

Relationship
      with 1845 Walnut Associates Ltd.    We lease space in
      an office building in which we also own a 30% equity interest in the
      partnership that owns the building, 1845 Walnut Associates Ltd. The property
      is
      managed by Brandywine Construction and Management, Inc., or BCMI, as further
      described below.  

Relationship
      with 9 Henmar.    We
      own
      interests in the Trapeza entities that have sponsored CDO issuers and manage
      pools of trust preferred securities acquired by the CDO issuers. The Trapeza
      entities and CDO issuers were originated and developed in large part by Daniel
      G. Cohen, or D. Cohen. Jonathan Z. Cohen, or J. Cohen, the President, Chief
      Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, and D. Cohen are the sons
      of
      Edward E. Cohen, or E. Cohen, and Betsy Z. Cohen, or B. Cohen. We agreed to pay
      D. Cohen s company, 9 Henmar, 10% of the fees we receive in connection with the
      first four Trapeza CDOs that we sponsored and manage. In fiscal 2006, the
      Company received $4.3 million of such fees from these transactions, net of
      expenses and paid 9 Henmar $479,000. 

Relationship
      with Ledgewood P.C.    Until
      April 1996, E. Cohen was of counsel to Ledgewood. E. Cohen receives certain
      debt
      service payments from Ledgewood related to the termination of his affiliation
      with Ledgewood and its redemption of his interest. 

Relationship
      with Retirement Trusts.    We
      have
      established two trusts to fund the SERP for E. Cohen. The 1999 Trust, a secular
      trust, purchased 100,000 shares of the common stock of The Bancorp,
      Inc. with a fair value of $2.5 million at September 30, 2006. This trust
      and its assets are not included in our consolidated balance sheets. However,
      its
      assets are considered in determining the amount of our liability under the
      SERP.
      The 2000 Trust, a  Rabbi Trust,  holds 123,719 shares of common stock
      of Bancorp carried at market value which was $3.2 million at September 30,
      2006 and a loan to a limited partnership in which E. Cohen and D. Cohen own
      the
      beneficial interests. This loan was acquired for its outstanding balance of
      $720,000 by the 2000 Trust in April 2001 from a corporation of which E. Cohen
      was chairman and J. Cohen was the president. The loan balance as of September
      30, 2006 was $297,000. In addition, the 2000 Trust invested $1.0 million in
      Financial Securities Fund, an investment partnership which is managed by a
      corporation of which D. Cohen is the principal shareholder and a director.
      The
      partnership is being liquidated and the 2000 Trust received substantially all
      of
      its initial investment, together with accumulated income, during fiscal 2006.
      The carrying value of the assets in the 2000 Trust was approximately $5.6
      million at September 30, 2006. Its assets are included in other assets in our
      consolidated balance sheets. Our liability under the SERP has not been reduced
      by the value of those assets. 

Relationship
      with The Bancorp, Inc., or TBBK.    We
      own
      3.5% of the outstanding common stock of TBBK. D. Cohen is the Chairman and
      B.
      Cohen is the Chief Executive Officer of TBBK and its subsidiary bank. At
      September 30, 2006, we had cash deposits of $282,000 at TBBK. In 2006, we sold
      50,000 shares of TBBK stock for $1.2 million and realized a gain of
      $668,000. 

Relationship
      with Certain Directors, Officers, Employees and Other Related
      Parties.   
      A
      wholly-owned subsidiary of ours serves as the general partner of three
      partnerships that invest in regional domestic banks. The general partner may
      receive a carried interest of up to 20% upon meeting specific investor return
      rates. Some of the partnerships  investors wanted to ensure that certain
      individuals who are critical to the partnerships  success participate in the
      carried interest. The total participation authorized by our compensation
      committee was 48.5% of the 20% carried interest, of which J. Cohen, B. Cohen
      and
      E. Cohen received 10%, 7.5% and 5%, respectively. The remaining 26% was received
      by six individuals, four of whom are our employees. 

Relationship with Brandywine Construction   Management,
      Inc.   
      BCMI
      manages the properties underlying four of our real estate loans and certain
      real
      estate and FIN 46 assets. Adam Kauffman, President of BCMI, or an entity
      affiliated with him, has also acted as the general partner, president or trustee
      of three of the borrowers. E. Cohen is the chairman of BCMI and holds
      approximately 8% of its common stock.  

107 

ITEM
        14.       PRINCIPAL
        ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

Audit
        Fees   

The
        aggregate fees billed by our independent auditors, Grant Thornton LLP, for
        professional services rendered for the audit of our annual financial statements
        for fiscal 2006 and 2005 (including a review of internal controls as required
        under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley) and for the reviews of the financial
        statements included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q during such fiscal
        years were $1,178,000 and $1,692,000, respectively. 

Audit Related
        Fees  

The
        aggregate fees billed by Grant Thornton for audit-related services, including
        separate audits as required by certain of our subsidiaries and consulting
        on
        reporting issues were $164,000 and $198,000 for fiscal 2006 and 2005,
        respectively.  

Tax
        Fees  

The
        aggregate fees billed by Grant Thornton for professional services related
        to tax
        compliance, tax advice and tax planning were $85,000 and $154,000 for fiscal
        2006 and 2005, respectively. 

All
        Other Fees  

There
        were no other aggregate fees billed by Grant Thornton for products and services
        provided to us, other than services described above under  Audit Fees, 
 Audited-Related Fees  and  Tax Fees  for fiscal 2006 and 2005. 

Audit
        Committee Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures  

The
        Audit
        Committee, on at least an annual basis, reviews the audit and non-audit services
        performed by Grant Thornton, LLP as well as the fees charged by Grant Thornton,
        LLP for such services. Our policy is that all audit and non-audit services
        must
        be pre-approved by the Audit Committee. All of such services and fees were
        pre-approved during fiscal 2006. 

108 

PART
        IV  

ITEM
        15.       EXHIBITS
        AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

The
        following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form
        10-K: 

1.     
             
                 Financial
                Statements   

Report
        of
        Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

              Consolidated
        Balance Sheets at September 30, 2006 and 2005 

              Consolidated
        Statements of Income for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and
        2004 

              Consolidated
        Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income
        for 

the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 

              Consolidated
        Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and
        2004 

              Notes
        to
        Consolidated Financial Statements   September 30, 2006 

2.     
             
                 Financial
                Statement Schedules  

Schedule
        III   -  
        Investments in Real Estate 

            Schedule
        IV - Investments
        in Mortgage Loans on Real Estate 

            Schedule
 
Significant
        Subsidiary Financials 

*  Audited
        statements for these calendar year entities will be filed subsequently in
        an
        amendment to this Form 10K. 

a)     
             
                 Exhibits  

Exhibit No.                     Description   

3.1 

Restated
                  Certificate of Incorporation of Resource America.    (1)  

3.2 

Amended
                  and Restated Bylaws of Resource America, Inc.    (1)

10.1 

Master
                  Separation and Distribution Agreement between Atlas America, Inc.
                  and
                  Resource America, Inc. dated May 14, 2004.    (2)  

10.2 

Registration
                  Rights Agreement between Atlas America, Inc. and Resource America,
                  Inc.
                  dated May 14, 2004.    (2)  

10.3 

Tax
                  Matters Agreement between Atlas America, Inc. and Resource America,
                  Inc.
                  dated May 14, 2004.    (2)  

10.4 

Transition
                  Services Agreement between Atlas America, Inc. and Resource America,
                  Inc.
                  dated May 14, 2004.    (2)  

10.5 

Employment
                  Agreement between Steven J. Kessler and Resource America, Inc.,
                  dated
                  October 5, 1999.    (1)  

10.5(a) 

Employment
                  Agreement between Jonathan Z. Cohen and Resource America, Inc.,
                  dated
                  October 5, 1999.    (9)  

10.6(a) 

Fourth
                  Modification, dated June 30, 2005, of Revolving Credit Agreement,
                  Revolving Credit Loan and Security Agreement dated July 27, 1999
                  by and
                  between Resource America, Inc., Resource Properties XXXIV, Inc.,
                  Resource
                  Properties XL, Inc., Resource Properties XXX, Inc., Resource Properties
                  XXXI, Inc. and Sovereign Bank.    (3)  

10.6(b) 

Fifth
                  Modification, dated September 29, 2005, of Revolving Credit Loan
                  and
                  Security Agreement dated July 27, 1999 by and between Resource
                  America,
                  Inc., Resource Properties XXXIV, Inc., Resource Properties XL,
                  Inc.,
                  Resource Properties XXX, Inc., Resource Properties XXXI, Inc. and
                  Sovereign Bank.    (4)  

10.6(c) 

Seventh
                  Modification, dated July 2006, of Revolving Credit Loan and Security
                  Agreement dated July 27, 1999 by and between Resource America,
                  Inc.,
                  Resource Properties XXX, Inc., Resource Properties XLI, Inc., Resource
                  Capital Investor, Inc. and Sovereign Bank. 

10.7(a) 

Credit
                  Agreement dated July 31, 2006 between LEAF Financial Corporation,
                  LEAF
                  Funding, Inc. and National City Bank and between Resource America,
                  Inc.
                  and National City Bank.    (7)  

109 

10.7(b) 

Guaranty
                  and Suretyship Agreement dated July 31, 2006 between Resource America,
                  Inc., Resource Leasing, Inc. and National City Bank.    (7)  

10.7(c) 

First
                  Amendment to Credit Agreement dated August 14, 2006 between LEAF
                  Financial
                  Corporation, LEAF Funding, Inc. and National City Bank.    (8)  

10.8 

First
                  Amendment to Guaranty of Payment dated June 18, 2004 between Resource
                  America, Inc. and Commerce Bank, National Association.    (2)  

10.9 

Revolving
                  Credit Agreement and Assignment dated as of May 27, 2004 among
                  Lease
                  Equity Appreciation Fund I, L.P., LEAF Financial Corporation and
                  Sovereign
                  Bank.    (2)  

10.10 

Pooling
                  and Servicing Agreement, dated July 13, 2005, among LEAF Funding,
                  Inc.,
                  LEAF Financial Corporation, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith
                  Incorporated and The Bank of New York.   
                  (4)  

10.10
                  (a) 

Assignment,
                  Assumption and Amendment Agreement, dated September 29, 2006, among
                  LEAF
                  Funding, Inc.,   Merrill
                  Lynch Equipment Finance LLC, Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance
                  Corp.  
                  and U.S. Bank National Association. 

10.11 

2005
                  Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan.    (3)  

10.12 

Grant
                  of Incentive Stock Option Pursuant to the Resource America, Inc.
                  2005
                  Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan.    (6)  

10.13 

Grant
                  of Non-Qualified Stock Option Pursuant to the Resource America,
                  Inc. 2005
                  Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan.    (6)  

10.14 

2005
                  Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan - Form of Stock Award Agreement
                     (5)  

10.15 

Loan
                  and Security Agreement, dated July 2006, among Resource America,
                  Inc. and
                  Commerce Bank, N.A.  

21.1 

Subsidiaries
                  of Resource America, Inc. 

23.1 

Consent
                  of Grant Thornton LLP. 

31.1 

Certification
                  of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
                  Act of 2002. 

31.2 

Certification
                  of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
                  Act of 2002. 

32.1 

Certification
                  of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 1350 18 U.S.C.,
                  as adopted
                  pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
                  2002. 

32.2 

Certification
                  of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 1350 18 U.S.C.,
                  as adopted
                  pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
                  2002. 

(1)    
             
                Filed
                previously as an exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the
                quarter ended December 31, 1999 and by this reference incorporated
                herein. 

(2)    
             
                Filed
                previously as an exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the
                quarter ended June 30, 2004 and by this reference incorporated
                herein. 

(3)    
             
                Filed
                previously as an exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the
                quarter ended June 30, 2005 and by this reference incorporated
                herein. 

(4)    
             
                Filed
                previously as an exhibit to our Annual Report on Form 10K for the
                fiscal
                year ended September 30, 2005 and by this reference incorporated
                herein. 

(5)    
             
                Filed
                previously as an exhibit to our Report on Form 8-K filed on February
                15,
                2006 and by this reference incorporated
                herein. 

(6)    
             
                Filed
                previously as an exhibit to our Annual Report on Form 10K/A for the
                fiscal
                year ended September 30, 2005 and by this reference incorporated
                herein. 

(7)    
             
                Filed
                previously as an exhibit to our Report on Form 8-K filed on August
                4, 2006
                and by this reference incorporated
                herein. 

(8)    
             
                Filed
                previously as an exhibit to our Report on Form 8-K filed on August
                17,
                2006 and by this reference incorporated
                herein. 

(9)    
             
                Filed
                previously as an exhibit to our Annual Report on Form 10K for the
                fiscal
                year ended September 30, 2000 and by this reference incorporated
                herein. 

110 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
      by
      the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA,
      INC.  

      December
      14,
      2006                                                                                            
  By:      /s/
      Jonathan Z. Cohen                    

                                                                                                    Chief
      Executive Officer and President 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
      been
      signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
      capacities and on the dates indicated. 

111 

Resource
      America, Inc.   Subsidiaries   

       SCHEDULE
      III  

       Real
      Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  

       September
      30, 2006  

       (in
      thousands)  

(a) 

Date
                of FIN 46R adoption 

(b) 

Date
                of foreclosure 

Resource
      America, Inc.   Subsidiaries  

       SCHEDULE
      III - (Continued)  

       Real
      Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  

       September
      30, 2006  

       (in
      thousands)  

Resource
      America, Inc.   Subsidiaries  

       SCHEDULE
      IV  

       Mortgage
      Loans on Real Estate  

       September
      30, 2006  

       (in
      thousands)  

(a) 

All
                  net cash flows from related
                  property. 

(b) 

No
                  current payments. 

(c) 

We
                  have not foreclosed on the property and continue to forbear, because
                  we
                  receive all of the economic benefit from the underlying
                  property. 

Resource
        America, Inc.   Subsidiaries  

         SCHEDULE
        IV   (Continued)  

         Mortgage
        Loans on Real Estate  

         September
        30, 2006  

         (in
        thousands)  

(d)    
             
                This
                balance does not include a note receivable which is not a mortgage
                relating to a partial sale of our interest in a real estate
                venture. 

<EX-10.6(C)>
 2
 ex10_6c.htm
 EX 10.6(C) SEVENTH MODIFICATION, DATED JULY 2006 WITH SOVEREIGN BANK

Ex 10.6(c) Seventh Modification, dated July 2006 with Sovereign Bank

SEVENTH
      MODIFICATION OF  

       REVOLVING
      CREDIT LOAN AND  

       SECURITY
      AGREEMENT AND OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS  

THIS
      LOAN
      MODIFICATION AGREEMENT (this     Modification    )
      made
      this 24th day of July, 2006 by and among RESOURCE AMERICA, INC.
      (    RAI    ),
      RESOURCE PROPERTIES XXX, INC. (    RPI
      XXX       ),   
      RESOURCE
      PROPERTIES XLI, INC. (    RPI
      XLI    )
      and
      RESOURCE CAPITAL INVESTOR, INC. (    RCI    ),
      each a
      Delaware corporation (collectively, the     Borrowers    ),
      and
      SOVEREIGN BANK, a federal banking association, having an address of 1500 Market
      Street, Suite 1420, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102 (    Bank    
or
          Lender    ).

BACKGROUND   

A.     Resource
      Properties, Inc., which merged into RAI on June 29, 2005,  
      RESOUCE
      PROPERTIES XXIV, INC. (    RPI
      XXIV    ),
      RESOURCE PROPERTIES XL, INC. (    RPI
      XL    ),
      and
      Resource Properties 53, Inc. (    RPI
      53    )
      (the
    Original
      Borrowers    )
      and
      Bank entered into a certain Revolving Credit Loan and Security Agreement dated
      July 27, 1999 (the     Loan
      Agreement    )
      wherein the Original Borrowers established a line of credit loan facility with
      Bank in the amount of Fifteen Million Dollars ($15,000,000) (the     Loan    ). 

B.     As
      security for the obligations of Original Borrowers under the Loan Documents,
      RPI
      XL granted to Lender that certain Leasehold Mortgage and Security Agreement
      (the
    Leasehold
      Mortgage    )
      with
      regard to the real estate known as Factors Walk - Phase Two, Savannah, Georgia
      (the     Savannah       Real
      Estate    ). 

C.     Original
      Borrowers, and Bank entered into that certain Modification of Revolving Credit
      Loan and Security Agreement dated March 30, 2000 (the     First
      Modification    ),
      whereby,    inter
      alia   ,
      the
      principal amount of the Loan was increased to Eighteen Million Dollars
      ($18,000,000). 

D.     To
      evidence the revised Loan in the amount of $18,000,000, Original Borrowers
      executed and delivered to Bank that certain Replacement Line Note dated March
      30, 2000, in the amount of $18,000,000 (the     Note    ). 

E.     Original
      Borrowers,     RPI
      XXX,
      Resource Properties XXXI, Inc. ( RPI XXXI ), and Bank entered into that certain
      Second Modification of Revolving Credit Loan and Security Agreement and
      Modification of Other Loan Documents dated April 30, 2002 (the     Second
      Modification    ),
      whereby RPI 53 requested that Bank release it from its obligations under the
      Loan and release certain collateral related to RPI 53 s obligations and then to
      substitute RPI XXX and RPI XXXI as additional makers under the Note and add
      additional collateral owned by RPI XXX and RPI XXXI to the security for the
      Loan, in accordance with the terms therein.  

F.     Original
      Borrowers, RPI XXX, RPI XXXI, and Bank entered into that certain Third
      Modification of Revolving Credit Loan and Security Agreement dated
      September 

-
          1
          - 

15,
      2003
      (the     Third
      Modification    )
      whereby the term of the Loan was extended until July 27, 2005. 

G.     Original
      Borrowers, RAI, RPI XXX, RPI XXXI and Bank entered into that certain Fourth
      Modification of Revolving Credit Loan and Security Agreement and Other Loan
      Documents dated June 30, 2005 (the     Fourth
      Modification    )
      whereby (  i)
      the
      term of the Loan was extended  ,
        (ii)
      RPI
      XXIV was released from its obligations under the Loan Documents and (iii) there
      was an acknowledgement that by operation of law, since Resource Properties,
      Inc., which was a Borrower under the Loan Documents, merged into RAI, RAI is
      now
      a Borrower under the Loan Documents 

H.     RAI,
      RPI
      XXIV, RPI XL, RPI XXX, RPI XXXI and Bank entered into that Fifth Modification
      of
      Revolving Credit Loan and Security Agreement and Other Loan Documents dated
      September 29, 2005 (the     Fifth
      Modification    )
      whereby   Bank
      (i)
  accepted
      as additional Collateral for the Loan the property known as Wharf Lots 4 and
      5
      and located at Bull and River Streets, Savannah, Chatham County, Georgia (the
          Georgia
      Property    ),
      which
      is owned by RPI XXIV pursuant to that certain Deed to Secure Debt, Assignment
      of
      Rents and Security Agreement dated September 29, 2005 from RPI XXIV in favor
      of
      Lender (the     Georgia
      Mortgage    ),  
      and (ii)
      acknowledged RPI XXIV as a Borrower under the Loan Documents as if it had never
      been released in accordance with the terms of the Fourth Modification, which
      Bank agreed to do, on the terms and conditions as more fully set forth in the
      Fifth Modification.   In
      connection with the Fifth Modification, an Allonge to Replacement Line Note,
      dated September 29, 2005, was given by RAI, RPI 53, RPI XXIV AND RPI XL (the
          First
      Allonge    ). 

I.     RAI,
      RPI
      XXIV, RPI XL, RPI XXX and Bank entered into that Sixth Modification of Revolving
      Credit Loan and Security Agreement and Other Loan Documents dated March 30,
      2006
      (the     Sixth
      Modification    )
      whereby   Bank
      agreed to   (i)
      accept and acknowledge RPI XLI as a Borrower under the Loan Documents, (ii)
      accept as additional Collateral for the Loan a collateral assignment by RAI
      of
      all of its right title and interest in and to RPI XLI s stock (the    RPI
      XLI Shares    ),
        and
      (iii)
      release RPI XXXI as a Borrower under the Loan Documents. 

J.     On
      April
      6, 2006, Bank released the collateral pledged by RPI XXX which consisted of
      a
      collateral assignment of a $3,400,000 loan. 

K.     Borrowers
      have now requested that Bank: (i)   accept
      and acknowledge RCI as a Borrower under the Loan Documents; (ii) accept as
      additional Collateral for the Loan a collateral assignment by RCI of all of
      its
      right title and interest in and to 700,000 shares of Resource Capital Corp.,
      a
      Maryland corporation (the    RCC
      Shares    );
      (iii)
      revise the amount of the Loan to $14,000,000; (iv) extend the maturity date
      of
      the Loan; (v) accept as further additional Collateral for the Loan, a collateral
      assignment of (A) a loan from RPI XXX to Uman Realty, LLC, a New Jersey limited
      liability company (    Uman    )
      in the
      amount of $2,800,000.00 (the     Headhouse
      Loan    ),
      which
      is secured by a first mortgage on the real property located in Philadelphia,
      PA
      known as Headhouse Piers 3   5 (the     Headhouse
      Loan    )
        and
      (B)
      all notes, documents, instruments and agreements evidencing and/or securing
      such
      loan (the     Headhouse
      Loan Documents    );
      (vi)
      release the lien of the Georgia Mortgage on the Georgia Property
      (each 

-
          2
          - 

as
      defined in this Modification), and the Leashold Mortgage on the Savannah Real
      Estate; and (vii)   release
      RP XL and RP XXIV as Borrowers, which Bank has agreed to do on the terms and
      conditions as more fully set forth herein. 

L.     To
      evidence the collateral assignment of the RCC Shares, Bank and RCI,
      contemporaneously with the execution hereof, are entering into that certain
      Pledge and Security Agreement of even date herewith (the     RCI
      Pledge Agreement    )
      and
      that certain Securities Account Sole Control Agreement among RCI, Lender, Credit
      Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Pershing LLC (the     Control
      Agreement    ). 

M.     To
      evidence the collateral assignment of the Headhouse Loan, Bank and RPI XXX
      contemporaneously with the execution hereof, are entering into that certain
      Collateral Assignment of Note, Mortgage and Other Loan Documents (the
    Headhouse
      Loan Assignment    )
      with
      respect to the collateral assignment of the Headhouse Loan. 

N.     In
      connection with this Modification, an Allonge to Replacement Line Note, dated
      of
      even date hereof, shall be given by Borrowers to Lender (the     Second
      Allonge    ).
      The
      Note, the Loan Agreement, the RCI Pledge Agreement, the Headhouse Loan
      Assignment and the Headhouse Loan Documents and all other documents, instruments
      and undertakings evidencing and/or securing the Loan, (as modified hereby and
      by
      the First Modification, Second Modification, Third Modification, Fourth
      Modification, the Fifth Modification and the Sixth Modification (collectively,
      the     Other
      Modifications    
and
      this Modification) and all documents instruments and agreement executed and
      delivered to Lender in connection with the Other Modifications and this
      Modification are hereinafter collectively referred to as the     Loan
      Documents    ).
      All
      capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning given
      to
      such terms in the Loan Agreement. 

AGREEMENT   

NOW
      THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree
      as
      follows: 

1.      Definitions   .
      As used
      in this Modification, all capitalized terms shall have the respective meanings
      provided therefor herein or, in absence of such provision, the respective
      meanings provided therefor in the Loan Documents. Without limiting the
      foregoing: 

(a)     References
      in the Loan Documents to the  Loan Agreement  shall mean and include the Loan
      Agreement as modified by this Modification and the Other
      Modifications. 

(b)     References
      in the Loan Documents to the  Note  or the  Line Note  shall mean and include
      the Note as modified by this Modification, the First Allonge, the Second
      Allonge, any other allonges to the Note and the Other
      Modifications. 

(c)     References
      in the Loan Documents to the  Loan Documents  shall mean and include the Loan
      Documents, as defined therein, all as modified by this Modification and the
      Other Modifications. 

-
          3
          - 

(d)     References
      in the Loan Documents to the terms  Borrowers  shall mean and include RAI, RPI
      XXX, RPI XLI and RCI. 

(e)     References
      in the Loan Documents to the amount of the  Loan  or the  Line  or the  Line of
      Credit  being in an amount of up to $18,000,000.00, pursuant to the
      Modifications, shall be replaced with  $14,000,000.00 .  

(f)     The
      term
 Obligations  as used herein shall mean any and all Obligations of the
      Borrowers, or any of them, under the Note, the Loan Agreement, the Collateral
      Documents, the RCI Pledge Agreement and any other Loan Document, as modified
      by
      this Modification and the Other Modifications. 

2.      Confirmation
      of Indebtedness   . 

(a)     Borrowers
      hereby confirm, acknowledge, and agree that as of the date hereof, the
      outstanding principal balance of the Note is $0. Borrowers further acknowledge
      and agree that the foregoing principal balance from the date stated is validly
      and duly owing by Borrowers to Bank. 

(b)     Borrowers
      hereby confirm, acknowledge, and agree that as of the date hereof, the Borrowing
      Base, when adding in the value of the RCC Shares and Headhouse Loan as
      Collateral under the Loan Agreement and removing the Georgia Property and the
      Savannah Real Estate as Collateral, is $13,545,000.00.  

(c)     Borrowers
      hereby ratify, confirm and acknowledge that (i) the Note, the Collateral
      Documents, and the other Loan Documents are each in full force and effect as
      of
      the date hereof, (ii) the Note, the Collateral Documents and the other Loan
      Documents constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Borrowers,
      (iii) no event of default, or event which if continuing would constitute an
      Event of Default, has occurred under the Loan Documents, and (iv) the Loan
      Documents are enforceable against the Borrowers and its assets in accordance
      with their respective terms. 

(d)     Not
      by
      way of limitation of anything herein or in the Loan Documents, RCI hereby agrees
      to be bound by the Note, the Loan Agreement and other Loan Documents, as if
      it
      were an original party thereto and a Borrower under the Loan Documents listed
      therein, and RCI agrees to comply with all covenants set forth in the Loan
      Documents and hereby set forth their agreement to the remedies and rights
      granted to Bank therein. 

(e)     In
      order
      to induce Bank to enter into this Modification, the Borrowers hereby reaffirm
      the various representations and warranties made by the Original Borrowers in
      the
      Loan Documents, as if such representations and warranties were made by each
      of
      the Borrowers as of this date, and set forth fully herein, except as such
      representations and warranties may be otherwise modified by the updated
      Schedules and Exhibits attached hereto. In order to induce Bank to enter into
      this Modification, the Borrowers each hereby represent and warrant to Bank
      that
      all representations and warranties made by the Original Borrowers in the Loan
      Documents are hereby made by the Borrowers on and as of the date hereof. Not
      by
      way of limitation of the foregoing, the Borrowers hereby further represent
      and
      warrant that: 

-
          4
          - 

(i)     RCI
      is a
      corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the
      laws
      of the State of Delaware, with full power and authority to execute, deliver
      and
      comply with this Modification and the RCI   Pledge
      Agreement  ,
      and to
      carry on its respective business as it is now being conducted and is duly
      licensed or qualified as a foreign corporation in good standing in each
      jurisdiction in which the character or location of the properties owned by
      it or
      the business transacted by it requires such licensing or
      qualification; 

(ii)     The
      execution and delivery by RCI of this Modification and the RCI   Pledge
      Agreement   and
      the
      other Borrowers of this Modification and the consummation of the transactions
      contemplated by the Loan Documents and this Modification and the fulfillment
      and
      compliance with the respective terms, conditions and provisions of the Loan
      Documents: (a) have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action
      of
      all of the Borrowers, (b) will not conflict with or result in a breach of,
      or
      constitute a default (or might, upon the passage of time or the giving of notice
      or both, constitute a default) under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions
      of (i) any applicable statute, law, rule, regulation or ordinance, (ii) any
      Borrowers  articles of incorporation or bylaws, (iii) any indenture, mortgage,
      loan or credit agreement or instrument to which any of the Borrowers is a party
      or by which any of them may be bound or affected, or (iv) any judgment or order
      of any court or governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency
      or
      instrumentality, domestic or foreign, and (c) will not result in the creation
      or
      imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance of any nature whatsoever upon
      any
      of the property or assets of any of the Borrowers under the terms or provisions
      of any such agreement or instrument, except liens in favor of Bank; 

(iii)     This
      Modification has been duly executed and delivered to Bank by each of the
      Borrowers, and the RCI Pledge Agreement  
      and
      Headhouse Loan Assignment have been duly executed and delivered by RCI and
      RPI
      XXX, respectively   and
      this
      Modification and other documents and instruments required hereby or executed
      in
      connection herewith constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of such
      parties, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms; 

(iv)     None
      of
      the Borrowers is in violation of its respective articles of organization or
      bylaws, nor is any such party in default in the performance or observance of
      any
      of its respective obligations, covenants or conditions contained in any
      indenture or other agreement creating, evidencing or securing any Indebtedness
      or pursuant to which any such Indebtedness is issued, nor is any of the
      Borrowers in violation of or in default under any other agreement or instrument
      or any judgment, decree, order, statute, rule or governmental regulation,
      applicable to any of them or by which any of their properties may be bound
      or
      affected;  

(v)     There
      are
      no actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of any of the
      Borrowers  knowledge, threatened against any of the Borrowers, or any properties
      of any of them before any court or governmental department, commission, board,
      bureau, agency or instrumentality, domestic or foreign, which, if determined
      adversely to any of the Borrowers, would have a material adverse effect on
      such
      Borrower s financial or operating condition; 

(vi)     No
      authorization, consent, approval, license, exemption or any other action by
      and
      no registration, qualification or filing with any governmental agency
      or 

-
          5
          - 

authority
      is or will be necessary in connection with the execution, delivery and
      performance of this Modification or any other document or instrument required
      hereby by any of the Borrowers; 

(vii)     RCI
      is
      the sole owner of the RCC Shares and has full right an authority to pledge
      the
      RCC Shares to Lender as contemplated hereby. The RCC Shares are and will be
      owned by RCI free of any pledge, mortgage, hypothecation, lien, charge,
      encumbrance, or security interest in such instruments or the proceeds thereof,
      except such as are granted under the RCI Pledge Agreement; 

(viii)     With
      respect to the Headhouse Loan: (i) the Headhouse Loan Documents are in full
      force and effect; (ii) Uman is the borrower thereunder and has no claim, cause
      of action, defense, set-off, counterclaim or challenge of any kind or nature
      whatsoever against the payment of any of the sums owing under the Headhouse
      Loan
      Documents or the enforcement or validity of the Headhouse Loan Documents; (iii)
      the Headhouse Loan Documents are in full force and effect and there are no
      defaults thereunder; (iv) the outstanding principal balance thereunder, as
      of
      the date hereof, is $2,800,000; and (v) all representations and warranties
      of
      RPI XXX under the Headhouse Loan Assignment are true, correct and complete,
      in
      all material respects; 

(ix)     On
      and as
      of the date of this Modification, to the best of any of the Borrowers 
knowledge, there exists no default or Event of Default under the Note, or any
      other Loan Document and no event which with notice or lapse of time or both
      would, if unremedied, be a default or Event of Default under the Note, or any
      other Loan Document. 

(f)     Each
      of
      the Borrowers hereby ratify and confirm that it is fully obligated under the
      Loan Documents and that the Loan Documents remain in full force and effect
      as
      modified hereby. The Loan Documents,     AND
      THE WARRANTS OF ATTORNEY TO CONFESS JUDGMENT CONTAINED IN THE NOTE, AND ANY
      OF
      THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS     ,   
      extend
      to and secure the payment of the obligations of the Borrowers under the Loan
      Documents (the     Obligations    ),
      as
      modified by this Modification and the Other Modifications. Each of the Loan
      Documents remains in full force and effect, as modified by this Modification
      and
      the Other Modifications and, along with the Premises and the other Collateral,
          AND
      THE WARRANTS OF ATTORNEY TO CONFESS JUDGMENT CONTAINED IN THE NOTE, AND ANY
      OF
      THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS     ,   
      extend
      to and continue to evidence and secure the Obligations and the Loan Documents,
      each as modified by this Modification and the Other Modifications. To the extent
      required in order to achieve the intent of this Modification, this Modification
      shall be deemed to modify each of the Loan Documents. 

(g)      BORROWERS
      HEREBY CONFIRM AND AGREE THAT THEY HAVE NO CLAIM, CAUSE OF ACTION, DEFENSE,
      SET-OFF, COUNTERCLAIM OR CHALLENGE OF ANY KIND OR NATURE WHATSOEVER AGAINST
      THE
      PAYMENT OF ANY OF THE SUMS OWING UNDER THE NOTE, OR THE TERMS OF THE OTHER
      LOAN
      DOCUMENTS OR THE ENFORCEMENT OR VALIDITY OF THE NOTE, OR THE OTHER LOAN
      DOCUMENTS, AND DO HEREBY REMISE, RELEASE AND FOREVER DISCHARGE ANY AND ALL
      SUCH
      CLAIMS, CAUSES OF ACTION, DEFENSES, SET-OFFS, COUNTERCLAIMS OR
      CHALLENGES   . 

-
          6
          - 

3.      Amendment
      to Note   .
      Borrowers and Lender hereby acknowledge and agree that the term  Borrower  under
      the Note shall mean all of the Borrowers, each of which hereby assumes, on
      a
      joint and several basis   ,   
      all
      obligations of  Borrower  thereunder and is otherwise obligated thereunder as if
      it were an original signatory thereto. Borrowers and Lender also agree that
      the
      face amount of the Note shall be $14,000,000.00.    BORROWERS
      HEREBY AGREE THAT THEY ARE, OR REMAIN, AS THE CASE MAY BE, BOUND BY THE WARRANT
      OF ATTORNEY TO CONFESS JUDGMENT AS SET FORTH IN THE NOTE. THE BORROWERS HEREBY
      CONFIRM THAT THEY HAVE AGREED TO BE BOUND BY THE FOREGOING AFTER RECEIVING
      ADVICE FROM COUNSEL OF THEIR CHOOSING WITH REGARD TO THE SAME AND FURTHER
      CONFIRM THAT THEIR AGREEMENT TO BE SO BOUND IS BASED ON A KNOWING, VOLUNTARY
      AND
      INTELLIGENT DECISION   .

4.      Amendment
      to the Loan Agreement   . 

(a)     The
      following definitions in the Loan Agreement shall be amended as indicated
      below: 

(i)
           The
      term
 Borrower  as defined in the Loan Agreement shall mean the
      Borrowers; 

(ii)     
      The term
 Loan Documents  as defined in the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents
      shall be expanded to include the RCI Pledge Agreement and the Headhouse Loan
      Assignment, and shall no longer include the Georgia Mortgage or the Leasehold
      Mortgage; 

(iii)     
      The term
 Collateral  and/or  Substitute Collateral  as defined in the Loan Agreement
      shall be expanded to include the RCC Shares and Headhouse Loan, and shall no
      longer include the Georgia Property and the Savannah Real Estate, consequently,
      Exhibit  A  shall be amended to include the RCI Pledge Agreement and the
      Headhouse Loan Assignment and exclude the Georgia Mortgage and the Leasehold
      Mortgage.  

(iv)     Replace
      the definition of  Collateral Documents  with the following: 

Collateral
      Documents  means the Assigned Loan Documents and all documents, instruments and
      agreements evidencing the pledge, assignment or granting of any security
      interest in and to any of the Real Estate, the RPI XLI Shares, the RCC Shares
      or
      any other Collateral and/or Substitute Collateral evidencing, securing and/or
      otherwise relating to the Line, including without limitation those documents
      and
      instruments set forth on Exhibit  A  attached hereto and made a part
      hereof, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the
      terms hereof.   

-
          7
          - 

(v)     Replace
      the definition of  Substitute Collateral  with the following: 

Substitute
      Collateral  means all of the (a) real property or notes, mortgages and other
      documents and instruments, evidencing and/or securing a commercial mortgage
      loan
      (or a participation interest therein) of which a Borrower is the owner (all
      as
      more fully described in Section 4.1 herein), where Bank shall have received
      an
      Appraisal of the real property subject to such loan and such other reports
      (including environmental reports), surveys, and information relating thereto
      as
      Bank may request, and (b) such other real or personal property as Bank may
      accept from a Borrower as collateral for the obligations of Borrower hereunder
      and under the other Loan Documents, where such Substitute Collateral is
      evidenced by mortgages, assignments, deeds of trust, mortgages, pledge
      agreements and other documents, instruments and agreements as my be resonbaly
      required by Bank. Upon the delivery of Substitute Collateral to Bank and the
      acceptance thereof by Bank, all such documents and instruments shall constitute
      Collateral Documents (and Exhibit  A  shall be amended accordingly) and the
      real property, if any, to which they relate shall constitute Real Estate and
      Collateral and the personal property, if any to which they relate, if any,
      shall
      constitute Collateral (and Exhibits  A  and  B  shall be amended
      accordingly).  

(b)     The
      amout
      of the Loan is hereby changed to $14,000,000.00 and therefore, the amount of
      the
 Line of Credit  or the  Loan , as referenced in the Loan Agreement and the
      other Loan Documents is hereby changed to $14,000,000.00. 

(c)     The
      following definitions shall be added to the Loan Agreement : 

Assigned
      Loan Documents  means any notes, mortgages, participation agreements, pledge
      agreements, deeds of trust, assignments or other documents instruments or
      agreements evidencing any loan or particpation assigned to Bank by any Borrower
      as security for the Line Note, including, but not limited to, the Headhouse
      Loan
      Documents.   

Headhouse
      Loan Documents means any and all notes, documents, instruments and agreements
      evidencing and/or securing the Headhouse Loan.  

Headhouse
      Loan  means that certain mortgage loan from PRI XXX to Uman Realty LLC, a New
      Jersey limited liability company in the amount of $2,800,000.  

Pledge
      Agreements  means the RAI Pledge Agreement and the RCI Pledge
      Agreement.  

RAI 
      means Resource America, Inc, a Delaware corporation.  

-
          8
          - 

RAI
      Pledge Agreement  means the Pledge Agreement from RAI in favor of Lender,
      whereby RAI pledges and assigns to Lender, as collateral for the obligations
      of
      Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the RPI XLI
      Shares.   

RCC 
      means Resource Capital Corp., a Maryland corporation.  

RCC
      Shares  means the shares of RCC, pledged to Lender, pursuant to the RCI Pledge
      Agreement, by RCI for the obligations of Borrower hereunder and under the other
      Loan Documents.   

RCI  means Resource Capital Investor, Inc., a Delaware
        corporation.   

RCI
      Pledge Agreement  means the RCI Pledge Agreement from RCI in favor of Lender,
      whereby RCI assigns to Lender, as collateral for the obligations of Borrower
      hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the RCC Shares. 

RPI XLI Shares  means the shares of Resource Properties XLI, Inc., pledged to
      Lender, pursuant to the RAI Pledge Agreement, by RAI, as collateral for the
      obligations of Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan
      Documents.   

(d)     Section
      1.1 of the Loan Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with
      the
      following:  

Line
        of Credit     .
        Bank will establish for Borrower for and during the period from the date
        hereof
        and until July 27, 2009 (the  Expiration Date ), subject to the Extension
        Periods (set forth and defined in Section 3.9 hereof), and further, subject
        to
        the terms and conditions hereof (including without limitation the Borrowing
        Base
        set forth in Section 1.4 herein), a revolving line of credit (the  Line )
        pursuant to which Bank will from time to time make loans to Borrower in an
        aggregate outstanding principal amount not to exceed at any time Fourteen
        Million Dollars ($14,000,000).   

(e)     Section
      1.2 of the Loan Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced
      with: 

Use
      of Proceeds        Borrower
      may use the advances under the Line for general working capital
      purposes.      

(f)     The
      first
      sentence of Section 1.4 of the Loan Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety
      and replaced with the following:  

-
          9
          - 

Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, but subject to the
      provisions of Section 4.4(b) herein, the aggregate outstanding principal balance
      of the Line shall not exceed at any time the sum of the following (the
      Borrowing
      Base      )
      (i) sixty-five percent (65%) of the Appraised Value of the Real Estate (not
      including such of the Real Estate that has been released from the lien of any
      Collateral Documents or that otherwise relates to a Collateral Document that
      has
      been terminated or satisfied)      plus     
      (ii)
      with respect to the Intown Loan Documents, the lesser of (A) $6,430,000 less
      the
      value of any mortgage lien senior to the mortgage securing the Intown loan
      documents or (B) anticipated cash flow from the Intown Loan divided by .12
           plus     
      (iii) fifty percent (50%) of the fair market value of the RCC Shares, which
      shares shall be marked to market monthly by Lender,      plus     
      (iv)
      with respect to the Headhouse Loan, the lesser of (A) $2,600,000 less the value
      of any mortgage lien senior to the mortgage securing the Headhouse loan
      documents or (B) the anticipated cash flow from the Headhouse Loan divided
      by
      .12. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a default under the Intown
      Loan Documents or the Headhouse Loan Documents, Lender may determine to remove
      the cash flow of the Intown Loan and/or the Headhouse Loan, as applicable,
      from
      the Borrowing Base, if Lender believes, in its reasonable discretion, that
      the
      collection of the Intown Loan, or the Headhouse Loan, as applicable, has been
      materially impaired. The value assigned to the Collateral for purposes of
      computing the Borrowing Base, is set forth on Schedule 1.4
      hereto.   

(g)     A
      new
      Section 1.5 shall be added to the Loan Agreement, as follows: 

Limitation
      on Number of Tranches     
      Borrower shall be limited to having no more than three (3) LIBOR Rate tranches
      outstanding at any one time.   

(h)     Replace
      Section 2.1 of the Loan Agreement with the following: 

Interest
      on the Line     .
      Interest on the unpaid outstanding principal balance of the Line will accrue
      from the date of the advance until final payment thereof, at Borrower s option,
      at either (i) equal to, or (ii) at the LIBOR Rate plus 200 basis points, a
      per
      annum rate equal to the Prime Rate in effect from time to time (such interest
      rate to change immediately upon any change in the Prime Rate), or at the
      Borrower s option, at the LIBOR Rate plus 200 basis points.   

The
       LIBOR Rate  means the offered rate for delivery in two London Banking Days (as
      defined below) of deposits of U.S. Dollars which the British Bankers 
Association fixes as its LIBOR rate and which appears on the Telerate Page
      3750
      as of 11:00 a.m. London time on the day on which the Interest Period commences,
      and for a period approximately equal to such Interest Period. If the first
      day
      of any Interest Period is not a day which is both a (i) business day, and (ii)
      a
      day on which US dollar deposits are transacted in the London interbank market
      (a
 London Banking Day ), the LIBOR Rate shall be determined in reference to the
      next preceding day which is both a business day and a London Banking Day. If
      for
      any reason the LIBOR Rate is unavailable and/or the Lender is unable to
      determine the LIBOR Rate for any Interest Period, the LIBOR Rate shall be deemed
      to be equal to the Prime Rate.  

-
          10
          - 

Interest
      Period  means the period commencing on the date on which the interest rate under
      the Loan is converted to (or is continuing as) the LIBOR Rate, and ending on
      (but excluding) the day which numerically corresponds to such date one month
      thereafter (or, if such month has no numerically corresponding day, on the
      last
      business day of such month).   

(i)     Section
      3.9 of the Loan Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with
      the
      following: 

Bank
      may elect to extend the Expiration Date for up to two, one-year periods (each
      an
 Extension Period ), subject to the following terms and
      conditions:  

(i)       On
      or
      before May 31 of each year commencing on May 31, 2009, Bank will notify Borrower
      if (i) Bank has elected to extend the Expiration Date then in effect by an
      Extension Period, or (ii) Bank has elected not to extend the Expiration Date
      then in effect. A failure by the Bank to send any such notice shall be deemed
      to
      be an election by Bank not to extend the Expiration Date then in
      effect;  

(ii)
             as
      of
      the date of the commencement of any Extension Period, there shall not have
      occurred any Event of Default and there shall be, as of such date, no Potential
      Default;   

(iii)
             as
      of
      the date of the commencement of any Extension Period, there shall have not
      occurred any material adverse change in the financial condition of any Borrower
      and/or the Collateral; and  

(iv)
             on
      or
      before the commencement date of any Extension Period, Borrower shall execute
      or
      cause to be executed any other documents reasonably requested by
      Bank.  

To
      the extent that Borrower elects to extend the Expiration Date for an Extension
      Period, the term the  Expiration Date  shall be the last day of such applicable
      Extension Period.  

In
      the event that Bank determines in the exercise of its sole discretion that
      it
      will extend the Expiration date then in effect, Borrower shall, at least five
      (5) days prior to the then current Expiration Date, pay to Bank an extension
      fee
      of Thirty-Five Thousand Dollars ($35,000). If Borrower shall fail to pay such
      extension fee to Bank as and when required, Bank s election to extend the
      Expiration Date shall be deemed to be canceled and shall be null and void and
      of
      no further force or effect and the Expiration Date then in effect shall continue
      as if Bank had not provided any notice of election to extend.   

-
          11
          - 

(j)     Delete
        Sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 of the Loan Agreement in their entirety and replace
        with the following: 

4.1        Assignment
      and Security Interest     .
      As
      security for the performance by Borrower of this Agreement and the other Loan
      Documents and the payment of the Line Note and as security for the performance
      of the Guaranty and all other liabilities of any Borrower to Bank (whether
      absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, direct or indirect, sole, joint,
      several or joint and several, similar or dissimilar, related or unrelated,
      due
      or to become due or heretofore or hereafter contracted or acquired), Borrower
      hereby pledges, assigns, transfers and sets over to Bank and grants to Bank
      a
      security interest in all of Borrower s right, title and interest in and to the
      following:   

(a)       all
      of Borrower s powers, privileges and other benefits under any and all Assigned
      Loan Documents;  

(b)       the
      immediate right to receive and collect all sums payable to or receivable by
      Borrower under or pursuant to the provisions of all Assigned Loan Documents,
      whether as principal, interest, casualty or insurance payments, or otherwise
      ( Payments   

(c)       the
      right to make all waivers and agreements, to give all notices, consents and
      releases, and to take all action upon the happening of a Collateral Document
      Default;  

(d)       the
      right to do any and all other things whatsoever which Borrower is or may become
      entitled to do under the Assigned Loan Documents, including without limitation
      all rights to be substituted as a creditor in any bankruptcy proceeding
      affecting any Obligor, Assigned Loan Documents, or Real Estate, with full voting
      rights, the right to receive dividends, and the right to participate in the
      administration of any plan, whether in liquidation or reorganization, and the
      right to take any and all actions that Borrower may be entitled to take as
      a
      participant under any Assigned Loan Document. In further of the foregoing
      assignment, Borrower hereby irrevocably authorizes and empowers Bank, in its
      own
      name or in the name of its nominee, or in the name of Borrower or as its
      attorney, to ask, demand, sue for, collect and receive any and all Payments
      to
      which Borrower is or may become entitled under any Assigned Loan Document and
      to
      enforce compliance by any Obligor, or any maker, mortgagor, or other party
      thereto, with all of the terms and provisions thereof;  

-
          12
          - 

(e)       All
      Deposit Accounts maintained by any Borrower, together with all cash deposited
      in
      the same.  

4.2        Representations
      Regarding Collateral.     
      Borrower represents and warrants that:  

(a)       Borrower
      has full right and title to the Collateral and (either as owner of the Assigned
      Loan Documents or a participation interest in and to the Assigned Loan
      Documents) to the Assigned Loan Documents, free from  

any
      lien, security interest, encumbrance or other right, title and interest of
      any
      other person or entity.  

(b)       Borrower
      has not made any currently effective assignment of any interest in any of the
      Collateral or the Assigned Loan Documents other than to Bank pursuant to this
      Agreement and the other Loan Documents.  

(c)       No
      Obligor has any set-off, defense or counterclaim to any of its obligations
      under
      any Assigned Loan Document (as the same may have been modified by any
      forbearance agreement relating thereto).  

(d)       Subject
      to the provisions of any forbearance agreement relating thereto, all Assigned
      Loan Documents are in full force and effect with respect to the payment
      obligations arising under them.  

(e)       Except
      as may be specifically provided in the Assigned Loan Documents, no Payments
      have
      been collected, anticipated, waived, released, discounted or otherwise
      discharged or compromised except in accordance with their regularly scheduled
      payment dates.  

(f)       There
      is only one original note evidencing each loan to which the Assigned Loan
      Documents relate, if applicable, only one original deed-in-lieu of foreclosure
      relating to any loans to which the Assigned Loan Documents relate, and, if
      applicable, only one Participation Certificate evidencing participation
      interests comprising a portion of the Collateral, all of which, to the extent
      applicable, have been delivered to Bank.  

4.3        Covenants
      Regarding Collateral     .
      So
      long as the Line Note remains unpaid or Bank has any commitment under the Line,
      without the prior written consent of Bank, which consent shall not be
      unreasonably withheld or delayed:  

(a)       Borrower
      shall not obtain any other loans or other financing secured by an encumbrance,
      lien, mortgage, security interest or other interest in any of the Collateral,
      or
      assign, sell, transfer (voluntarily or by operation of law), or otherwise
      dispose of any interest in any of the Collateral or the Real
      Estate.  

-
          13
          - 

(b)       Borrower
      shall receive or collect monthly (or otherwise if so provided by the terms
      of
      the Assigned Loan Documents) payment of principal and interest pursuant to
      and
      in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Assigned Loan
      Documents.  

(c)       Prior
      to the occurrence of an Event or Default, Borrower shall not alter, amend,
      extend, cancel or otherwise change any terms or conditions of the Assigned
      Loan
      Documents if as a result thereof there would occur an Event of Default or
      Potential Default. Following the occurrence of an    Event
      of Default, Borrower shall not alter, amend, cancel or otherwise change any
      provision of any of the Assigned Loan Documents.  

(d)       In
      the event Borrower goes into possession of any of the Real Estate relating
      to
      the Assigned Loan Documents, should Bank thereafter decide to go into possession
      pursuant to this Agreement, Borrower shall immediately vacate the affected
      Real
      Estate and perform whatever acts or execute whatever documents required by
      Bank,
      in its sole discretion, to expedite Bank s possession of the affected Real
      Estate.  

(e)       Borrower
      shall keep accurate and complete records of Payments and the Collateral
      Documents and shall furnish Bank with such information as Bank may request,
      including without limitations, the information required by Section 8
      herein.  

(f)       Following
      the occurrence of an Event of Default Borrower, shall not exercise any right
      or
      remedy granted under any of the Assigned Loan Documents without the prior
      written consent of Bank.  

(g)       Following
      the occurrence of an Event of Default, Borrower shall not (i) waive, excuse,
      condone or in any manner release or discharge any obligation, covenant or
      agreement of any Obligor under any Assigned Loan Document; (ii) cancel,
      terminate or permit the surrender of any Assigned Loan Document; or (iii)
      solicit or accept any prepayment of monies under any Assigned Loan
      Document.  

(h)       Borrower
      shall not release or terminate any of its interest in, to or under any Assigned
      Loan Document.  

(i)       Borrower
      shall not propose or consent to any plan of reorganization or liquidation in
      any
      proceeding in the United States Bankruptcy Court with regard to any Assigned
      Loan Documents, Real Estate, Collateral or Obligor.   

(k)     In
      Section 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, both paragraphs numbered 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, and 4.11,
      replace the terms  Collateral Documents  with  Assigned Loan Documents  and
      replace the term  Collateral Document  with Assigned Loan Document , wherever
      such terms appear. 

-
          14
          - 

(a)     Schedules
      5.3, 5.4, 5.7, 5.13, 5.18, and 5.22 to the Loan Agreement shall be replaced
      with
      the schedules attached hereto of the same numbers to reflect the inclusion
      of
      RCI as a Borrower, and any other changes.  

(b)     The
      definition of  Deposit Accounts as set forth in Section 5.22 of the Loan
      Agreement shall be amended to include all bank accounts of any Borrower (other
      than RAI bank accounts at banks other than Bank), all of which are set forth
      on
   Schedule       5.22   .  

(l)     Replace
      Section 6.22 of the Loan Agreement with the following: 

6.22        Bank
      Accounts     .  

(a)       Except
      as otherwise permitted herein, no Borrower shall open or maintain any bank
      accounts with respect to the Collateral, the Assigned Loan Documents or the
      Real
      Estate other than the Deposit Accounts and bank accounts maintained with Bank.
      Each Borrower shall deposit or cause to be deposited into the Deposit Accounts
      or such other accounts as may be maintained with Bank from time to the time
      the
      rentals and other income from the Real Estate and all other Payments. Any income
      received with respect to the balance from time to time standing to the credit
      of
      the Deposit Accounts and any other deposit accounts maintained with Bank,
      including any interest, shall remain, or be deposited in the Deposit Accounts
      or
      such other accounts.  

(b)       All
      right, title and interest in and to the cash amounts on deposit from time to
      time in the Deposit Accounts shall vest in Bank, shall constitute part of the
      Collateral hereunder and shall not constitute payment of the Bank Indebtedness
      until applied thereto as hereinafter provided. Each Borrower shall as promptly
      as possible deposit the proceeds of any Collateral and all payments received
      by
      it into the Deposit Accounts. Until so deposited, all such proceeds shall be
      held in trust by Borrower for and as the property of Bank and shall not be
      commingled with any other funds or property of either of them. The balance
      from
      time to time standing to the credit of the Deposit Accounts shall, except as
      set
      forth in subsection (c) below, be distributed to Borrower in accordance with
      the
      provisions of the Depository Agreements.  

(c)       If
      an
      Event of Default shall have occurred and Bank shall have given notice to
      Borrower of its intent to exercise exclusive control over the Deposit Accounts,
      then (i) the applicable Borrower shall instruct all Obligors and other Persons
      obligated in respect of any Assigned Loan Document or Real Estate to make all
      payments in respect of the Assigned Loan Document, and shall use its best
      efforts to cause them to do so, directly to the Deposit Accounts, and (ii)
      no
      Borrower shall be entitled to receive any distribution from the Deposit
      Accounts.   

-
          15
          - 

(m)     A
      new
      Section 6.23 shall be added to the Loan Agreement and shall read as
      follows: 

6.23          RCC
      Shares      .

(a)       Borrowers
      represent and warrant that the RCC Shares have been registered under the
      Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Securities Act"), under a currently
      effective Form S-11 shelf registration statement of RCC.  Borrowers further
      represent that, under a registration     rights
      agreement with RCC, of which Borrowers, or their subsidiaries, are
      beneficiaries, RCC is required to use its commercially reasonable best efforts
      to maintain the registration's effectiveness until the earlier of two years
      following the registration's effective date or the date all shares covered
      by
      the registration have been sold or all shares not held by affiliates of RCC
      are
      eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 144(k) of the Securities Act."

(b)       Borrowers
      represent and warrant that the RCC Shares have been held by RCI since March
      5,
      2005 and were fully paid for by it on such date. Borrowers further represent
      and
      warrant that RCI complies with all of the conditions relating to a pledgor
      of
      securities set forth in Rule 144(d)(3)(iv) under the Securities
      Act."  

(n)     Section
      7.1 of the Loan Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with
      the
      following: 

Minimum
      Tangible Net Worth  Borrower shall maintain a minimum Tangible Net Worth of One
      Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000.000) plus eighty-five percent (85%) of
      future equity offerings of Borrower at September 30, 2006 and at each calendar
      quarter end thereafter. For purposes hereof,  Tangible Net Worth  shall be
      defined as Total Assets less intangibles and less Liabilities, each determined
      in accordance with GAAP.   

(o)     Section
      7.2 of the Loan Agreement shall be revised deleted in its entirety and replaced
      with the following:  

Debt
                Service Coverage Ratio.  Borrower shall maintain a ratio of (a) revenues,
                calculated on an annualized basis, of the cash flow derived from
                the
                Headhouse Loan and the Intown Loan plus dividends received on account
                of
                the RCC Shares (annualized based upon the most recent calendar quarter),
                to (b) the greater of (i) actual interest paid on the Line during
                the
                period of calculation, or (ii) $1,400,000.00, of not less than 1.15
                to
                1.0.   

(p)     Exhibit
       A  and Exhibit  B  to the Loan Agreement shall be replaced with the exhibits
      attached hereto of the same letters to reflect the inclusion of the RCC Shares
      and new Headhouse Loan and the removal of the Georgia Property and the Savannah
      Real Estate as Collateral and Substitute Collateral, and any other changes.

-
          16
          - 

5.      Conditions
      Precedent   .
      The
      obligation of Bank to effect the modifications and agreements contained herein
      is subject to the conditions precedent that: 

(a)     There
      has
      been no material adverse change in the financial or operating condition of
      any
      of the Borrowers since the date of the last submission of financial statements
      to Bank. 

(b)     The
      Borrowers shall have paid a fee to the Bank for the Bank s agreement to extend
      to the Maturity Date, as provided herein, in the amount of 75 basis points
      on
      the maximum amount of the Line. 

(c)     The
      Borrower s shall have paid Bank s counsel fees incurred in connection with this
      Modification. 

(d)     All
      representations and warranties made by any of the Borrowers herein or in
      connection with this Modification shall be true, correct and compete in all
      material respects. 

(e)     Bank
      shall have received all of the following documents, each of which shall be
      in
      form and substance satisfactory to Bank: 

(i)     Copies,
      certified in writing by the secretaries or assistant secretaries of the
      Borrowers, of (a) resolutions of their respective boards of directors evidencing
      approval of this Modification and the other matters contemplated hereby and
      the
      execution and delivery by RCI of the RCI Pledge Agreement, and by RPI XXX of
      the
      Headhouse Loan Assignment and (b) each document evidencing other necessary
      action and approvals, if any, with respect to this Modification, the RCI Pledge
      Agreement or the Headhouse Loan Assignment; 

(ii)     Written
      certificates by each of the secretaries or assistant secretaries of the
      Borrowers as to the names and signatures of each Borrowers  officers who are
      authorized to sign this Modification, and the other documents or certificates
      to
      be executed and delivered by them pursuant hereto; 

(iii)     Evidence
      satisfactory to Bank that the certificates of incorporation and bylaws of RAI,
      RPI XL, RPI XXX and RPI XXI delivered to Bank on or about July 27, 1999 or
      April
      30, 2002, as applicable, and the articles of incorporation of RPI XLI delivered
      to the Bank on March 20, 2006, have not been amended in any way (or if they
      have
      been amended, the nature of such amendment) and are in full force and effect,
      and certified certificates of incorporation and bylaws of all of the other
      Borrowers, as well as good standing certificates issued by the secretary of
      state of the state of incorporation of each of the Borrowers; 

(iv)     Certificate
      of incorporation of RCI, certified as true, correct and complete by the
      secretary of state of the state of Delaware and bylaws or RCI, certified as
      true, correct and complete by the secretary of RCI; 

-
          17
          - 

(v)     A
      fully
      executed copy of this Modification adding RCI as a Borrower and otherwise
      modifying the Note consistent with the terms hereof;  

(vi)     The
      following documents with respect to the RCC Shares; 

(A)     A
      Pledge
      and Security Agreement (the     Pledge
      Agreement    )
      of even
      date herewith from RCI in favor of Bank; and 

(B)     The
      Control Agreement. 
 
      (vii)     The
      following documents with respect to the Headhouse Loan;  

(A)     A
      full
      set of all of the Headhouse Loan Documents, which shall be in form and content
      reasonably satisfactory to Lender, including the original note from Uman in
      the
      amount of the Headhouse Loan, which note shall be endorsed in favor of Lender
      by
      RPI XXX; 

(B)     The
      Headhouse Loan Assignment; and 

(C)     Consent
      and estoppel certificate from Uman with respect to the assignment of the
      Headhouse Loan Assignment, in form and content as many be satisfactory to
      Lender. 

(viii)     Opinion
      of counsel from Borrowers  counsel with respect to each Borrower s due
      formation,  
      the
      validity and enforceability of this Modification, the Pledge Agreement, the
      Headhouse Loan Assignment, the authority and capacity of the respective
      Borrowers to execute such documents, the creation and perfection in favor of
      Bank of a first priority security interest in and to the RCC Shares and the
      Headhouse Loan Documents and such other matters as Bank may request;
      and 

(ix)     Such
      other documents as Bank may reasonably request in connection with this
      Modification. 

6.      Reaffirmation
      of Loan Documents, Accommodations and Collateral.   
      Borrowers hereby ratify and confirm that each of them is fully obligated under
      the Loan Documents and that the Loan Documents remain in full force and effect
      as modified hereby. The Assigned Loan Documents and the other Loan Documents
      shall remain in full force and effect and shall be deemed hereby to extend
      to
      and secure the Obligations, including without limitation those created under
      this Modification. To the extent required in order to achieve the intent of
      this
      Modification, this Modification shall be deemed to modify each of the Loan
      Documents and, along with the Real Estate and other other Collateral extend
      to
      and continue to evidence and secure the Loan Documents and the Obligations
      as
      modified by this Modification. 

-
          18
          - 

7.      Miscellaneous   . 

(a)     Paragraph
      headings used in this Modification are for convenience only and shall not affect
      the construction of this Modification. 

(b)     From
      time
      to time, Borrowers will execute and deliver to Bank such additional documents
      and will provide such additional information as Bank may reasonably require,
      to
      carry out the terms of this Modification. 

(c)     Borrowers
      hereby indemnify, hold harmless, and upon request will defend Bank and its
      shareholders, officers, directors, employees, attorneys and agents, and their
        respective
      successors and assigns (collectively, the     Indemnified
      Parties    )
      from
      and against any and all claims and liabilities to third parties, and will pay
      and reimburse to the Indemnified Parties all losses, payments, reasonable costs
      and expenses associated therewith, or with Bank s defense (including without
      limitation reasonable attorneys fees) which Bank may suffer, incur or be exposed
      to by reason of or in connection with or rising out of (i) the transactions
      evidenced by or referred to in or related to this Modification or any of the
      Loan Documents, as modified by this Modification; and (ii) any actions or
      omissions of any one or more of the Indemnified Parties which conforms with
      the
      terms of this Modification or the Loan Documents, or is in good faith and
      connected therewith or with the enforcement thereof;    provided   ,
         however   ,
      that
      the Indemnified Parties shall not be indemnified, defended or held harmless
      for
      any consequential or indirect losses or damages, or any losses or damages which
      were caused by the Indemnified Parties  willful misconduct or gross negligence.
      The provisions of this paragraph shall survive any cancellation, satisfaction,
      termination or modification of this Modification, the Note, the Deed of Trust,
      the Mortgage, any other Loan Document, and the repayment of the
      Loan. 

(d)     This
      Modification shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws
      of
      the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 

(e)     Borrowers
      shall pay all costs and expenses of Bank in connection with the preparation,
      execution, delivery, administration and enforcement of this Modification
      (including title charges and the fees and out-of-pocket costs of counsel with
      respect hereto).  

(f)     This
      Modification may be signed in counterparts, all of which when taken together
      shall constitute one and the same instrument. 

(g)      BORROWERS
      ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE NOTE, AND OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS CONTAIN AUTHORIZATIONS
      TO
      CONFESS JUDGMENT AGAINST BORROWERS, THAT AT THE TIME ORIGINAL BORROWERS EXECUTED
      THE NOTE, AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BORROWERS CONSULTED, AND IN CONNECTION
      WITH THE EXECUTION OF THIS MODIFICATION AND THE EXECUTION OF THE DOCUMENTS
      AND
      INSTRUMENTS REQUIRED HEREBY HAVE CONSULTED LEGAL COUNSEL WITH RESPECT THERETO
      AND THAT BORROWERS UNDERSTAND (AND AT THE TIME BORROWERS EXECUTED THE NOTE,
      AND
      OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BORROWERS UNDERSTOOD) THAT THE EXERCISE BY BANK
      OF     

-
          20
          - 

THE
      AUTHORIZATIONS WILL RESULT IN THE ENTRY OF A JUDGMENT AGAINST BORROWERS AND
      THE
      SALE OR ATTACHMENT OF OR EXECUTION UPON BORROWERS  PROPERTY (INCLUDING WITHOUT
      LIMITATION REAL PROPERTY, PERSONAL PROPERTY AND BANK ACCOUNTS) WITHOUT PRIOR
      NOTICE OR THE OPPORTUNITY FOR A HEARING   . 

Signature
      lines follow on next page.   

-
          21
          - 

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Modification as of the
      date written above. 

Witness/Attest:                  BORROWERS:  

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC., a Delaware corporation 

______________________________                           By:
      __________________________________ 

        Name: 

        Title: 

RESOURCE
      PROPERTIES XXX, INC., a Delaware corporation 

______________________________                           By:
      __________________________________ 

        Name: 

        Title: 

RESOURCE
      PROPERTIES XLI, INC., a Delaware corporation 

______________________________                          By:
      __________________________________ 

        Name: 

        Title: 

RESOURCE
      CAPITAL INVESTOR, INC., a Delaware corporation 

______________________________                     By:
      __________________________________ 

        Steven
      Kessler, CFO 

-
          22
          - 

BANK:  

SOVEREIGN
      BANK, a federal banking association 

Attest:
      _____________________________                              
  By:
      ________________________________ 

        Name: 

        Title: 

-
          23
          - 

STATE
      OF                       : 

        :
      SS 

      COUNTY
      OF                    : 

BE
      IT
      REMEMBERED, that on this _______ day of July, 2006, personally came before
      me,
      the Subscriber, a Notarial Officer for the State and County aforesaid,
      ____________, the _____________ of RESOURCE AMERICA, INC.   and
      the
      President  
      of
  RESOURCE
      PROPERTIES XXX, INC., and RESOURCE PROPERTIES XLI, INC. each a   Delaware
      corporation, each existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, party to
      this instrument, known to me personally to be such, and acknowledged this
      instrument to be the act and deed of the aforesaid corporations, that the
      signature of the officer thereto is in his own proper handwriting, and that
      his
      act of sealing, executing, acknowledging and delivering said instrument was
      duly
      authorized by the aforesaid corporations. 

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set may hand and official seal. 

_____________________________ 

      Notary
      Public 

STATE
      OF                    : 

                    :
      SS 

      COUNTY
      OF                    : 

BE
      IT
      REMEMBERED, that on this _____day of July, 2006, personally came before me,
      the
      Subscriber, a Notarial officer of the State and County aforesaid, Steven J.
      Kessler, the Chief Financial officer of RESOURCE CAPITAL INVESTOR, INC., a
      Delaware corporation, existing under the Laws of the State of Delaware
  party
      to
      this instrument, known to me personally to be such, and acknowledged this
      instrument to be the act and deed of the aforesaid corporations, that the
      signature of the officer thereto is in his own proper handwriting, and that
      his
      act of sealing, executing, acknowledging and delivering said instrument was
      duly
      authorized by the aforesaid corporations. 

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set may hand and official seal. 

_____________________________ 

      Notary
      Public 

-
          24
          - 

EXHIBIT
       A  

Collateral  

A.  

Resource
                Properties XXX, Inc.
                (Headhouse)  

Collateral
      Assignment of (i) Leasehold Mortgage dated April 27, 2006 covering real property
      and improvements known as The Headhouses of Piers 3 and 5 North Columbus
      Boulevard, Philadelphia, PA; (ii) assignment of leases dated April 27, 2006;

B.      Collateral
      Assignment of that certain loan in the amount of $6,750,000.00 from RPI XLI
      to
      Intown Development Corporation, a Connecticut corporation and National Housing
      Partnership, a District of Columbia limited partnership, dated ____ and all
      documents and instruments evidencing and/or securing the same;    

C.       Resource
      America, Inc.  

All
      issued and outstanding shares of Resource Properties XLI, Inc. 

D.       Resource
      Capital Investor, Inc.  

700,000
      shares of the stock of Resource Capital Corp. 

-
          25
          - 

EXHIBIT
       B  

Real
      Estate  

1.     3-7
      N.
      Christopher Columbus Boulevard, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 

-
          26
          - 

SCHEDULE
      5.3 

Ownership
      Interests of Resulting Borrowers  

1.     Resource
      America, Inc. is a public company 

2. 

Resource
                Properties XXX, Inc., Resource Properties XLI, Inc. and Resource
                Capital
                Investor, Inc. are all owned by Resource America,
                Inc. 

-
          27
          - 

SCHEDULE
      5.4 

Stock
      Owned by Resulting Borrowers  

See
      attached. 

-
          28
          - 

SCHEDULE
      5.7 

Pending
      Litigation or Proceedings   

Pending
      litigation matters involving Resource America, Inc.: 

-
          29
          - 

SCHEDULE
      5.13 

Names
      and Addreses of Resulting Borrowers  

Resource
      America, Inc. - Jonathan Z. Cohen, President 

      Resource
      Properties XXIV, Inc. - Alan F. Feldman, President 

      Resource
      Properties XLI, Inc. - Alan F. Feldman, President 

      Resource
      Capital Investor, Inc. - Jonathan Z. Cohen, President 

1845
      Walnut Street, 10th Floor 

      Philadelphia,
      PA 19103  

-
          30
          - 

SCHEDULE
      5.18 

Encumbrances  

The
      property and assets of Resulting Borrowers are not subject to any lien,
      encumbrance or security interest except as set forth below: 

1.     3
      - 7 N.
      Christopher Columbus Boulevard, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 

a.     $2,800,000
      Leasehold Mortgage held by Resource Properties XXX, Inc. 

-
          31
          - 

SCHEDULE
      5.22 

Permitted
      Bank Accounts  

Hudson
      United Bank 

      1607
      Walnut Street 

      Philadelphia,
      PA 19103 

Resource
      Properties XXX, Inc. 

        80041-56064 

        00042-47108 

Resource
      Properties XLI, Inc.  

        42-92665 

At
      Hudson
      United Bank 

        1000
      MacArthur Blvd. 

        Mahwah,
      NJ 07430 

Sovereign
      Bank 

          0322035589 

</EX-10.6(C)>

<EX-10.10(A)>
 3
 ex10_10a.htm
 EX 10.10(A) ML ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGMT, DATE 09/29/06

Ex 10.10(a) ML Assignment and Assumption Agmt, Date 09/29/06

EXHIBIT
        10.10(    a)  

EXECUTION  

ASSIGNMENT,
        ASSUMPTION AND AMENDMENT     AGREEMENT  

ASSIGNMENT,
        ASSUMPTION AND AMENDMENT    
        AGREEMENT   ,
          dated
        as
        of September 29, 2006 (this     Agreement    ),
        among
        LEAF FUNDING, INC., a Delaware corporation (    LEAF
        Funding    ),
        LEAF
        INSTITUTIONAL DIRECT MANAGEMENT, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
        (    LEAF
        IDM    ),
        LEAF
        FINANCIAL CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation ("   LEAF
        Financial   "),
        LEASE
        EQUITY APPRECIATION FUND II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (    LEAF
        II    ),
        LEAF
        II B SPE, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (    LEAF
        II B SPE    ),
          MERRILL
        LYNCH EQUIPMENT FINANCE LLC  ,
        a
        Delaware limited liability company (    MLEF    ),
        MERRILL LYNCH COMMERCIAL FINANCE CORP., a Delaware corporation ("   Lender    ),
        and
        U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Custodian and Paying Agent ("   U.S.
        Bank   ").

WITNESSETH   :

WHEREAS   ,
        capitalized terms used herein not otherwise defined herein shall have the
        meanings ascribed thereto in Appendix A attached hereto; 

WHEREAS   ,
        LEAF
        Funding, LEAF IDM, LEAF Financial, MLEF, the Lender and U.S. Bank are parties
        to
        the Transaction Documents (as such term is defined in that certain Purchase,
        Sale and Contribution Agreement, dated as of April 8, 2003, between LEAF
        Funding
        and LEAF IDM, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified prior to the
        date
        hereof, and referred to herein as the     Existing
        Transaction Documents    ),
        pursuant to which (i) LEAF Funding shall from time to time sell to LEAF IDM,
        and
        LEAF IDM shall from time to time purchase from LEAF Funding, all of LEAF
        Funding s right, title and interest in, to and under certain Purchased
        Contracts; (ii) LEAF IDM shall from time to time sell to MLEF, and MLEF shall
        from time to time purchase from LEAF IDM, all of LEAF IDM s right, title and
        interest in, to and under such Purchased Contracts; (iii) the Lender shall
        from
        time to time lend to MLEF amounts sufficient to purchase such Purchased
        Contracts, and MLEF s obligations to the Lender shall be secured by, among other
        things, MLEF s right, title and interest in, to and under such Purchased
        Contracts; and (iv) the Servicer shall service such Purchased Contracts;

WHEREAS   ,
        the
        parties hereto intend that MLEF transfer, assign and convey to LEAF II B
        SPE all
        of MLEF s right title and interest in, to and under the Purchased Contracts and
        the Existing Transaction Documents, and in connection therewith, LEAF II
        B SPE
        shall assume and undertake to perform all of MLEF s liabilities and obligations
        under the Purchased Contracts and the Existing Transaction
        Documents; 

WHEREAS   ,
        the
        parties hereto intend that LEAF IDM transfer, assign and convey to LEAF II
        all
        of LEAF IDM s right title and interest in, to and under the Purchased Contracts
        and the Existing Transaction Documents, and in connection therewith, LEAF
        II
        shall 

assume
        and undertake to perform all of LEAF IDM s liabilities and obligations under the
        Purchased Contracts and the Existing Transaction Documents; and 

WHEREAS   ,
        the
        parties hereto intend to amend the Transaction Documents in order to give
        effect
        to the foregoing transactions on the terms and subject to the satisfaction
        of
        the conditions set forth herein. 

NOW,
        THEREFORE   ,
        in
        consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants and agreements
        contained herein, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

SECTION
        1.      Assignment
        and Assumption; Purchase Price   .
        On the
        Effective Date (as defined in Section 3 hereof), subject to the terms and
        conditions hereof: 

(a)     MLEF
        hereby sells, transfers, assigns and otherwise conveys, without recourse,
        to
        LEAF II B SPE and LEAF II B SPE hereby purchases from MLEF, all of MLEF s right,
        title and interest in, to and under each of the Purchased Contracts owned
        by
        MLEF as of the date hereof, together with all of MLEF s right, title and
        interest in, to and under each of the Transaction Documents. MLEF s sale,
        transference and assignment hereunder of the Purchased Contracts and MLEF s
        right, title and interest in, to and under each of the Transaction Documents
        is
        final and irrevocable from and after the Effective Date, and none of LEAF
        Funding, LEAF IDM, LEAF Financial, LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE shall have any
        right to require that such transference and assignment terminate or that
        MLEF
        repurchase such Purchased Contracts or MLEF s right, title and interest in, to
        and under each of the Transaction Documents from LEAF II B SPE. 

(b)     MLEF
        delegates, transfers, assigns and otherwise conveys, with recourse, to LEAF
        II B
        SPE, and LEAF II B SPE hereby assumes from MLEF, all of MLEF s duties,
        obligations and liabilities in, to and under each of the Purchased Contracts
        owned by MLEF as of the date hereof, together with all of MLEF s right, title
        and interest in, to and under each of the Transaction Documents. MLEF s
        delegation, transference and assignment hereunder of the Purchased Contracts
        and
        MLEF s right, title and interest in, to and under each of the Transaction
        Documents is final and irrevocable from and after the Effective Date, and
        none
        of LEAF Funding, LEAF IDM, LEAF Financial, LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE shall
        have
        any right to require that such delegation, transference and assignment terminate
        or that MLEF re-assume such duties, obligations and liabilities from LEAF
        II B
        SPE. 

(c)     LEAF
        IDM
        hereby sells, transfers, assigns and otherwise conveys, without recourse,
        to
        LEAF II and LEAF II hereby purchases from LEAF IDM, all of LEAF IDM s right,
        title and interest in, to and under each of the Purchased Contracts owned
        by
        LEAF IDM as of the date hereof, together with all of LEAF IDM s right, title and
        interest in, to and under each of the Transaction Documents. LEAF IDM s sale,
        transference and assignment hereunder of the Purchased Contracts and LEAF
        IDM s
        right, title and interest in, to and under each of the Transaction Documents
        is
        final and irrevocable from and after the Effective Date, and none of LEAF
        Funding, LEAF IDM, LEAF Financial, LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE shall have any
        right to require that such transference and assignment terminate or that
        LEAF
        IDM repurchase such 

(2) 

Purchased
        Contracts or LEAF IDM s right, title and interest in, to and under each of the
        Transaction Documents from LEAF II. 

(d)     LEAF
        IDM
        delegates, transfers, assigns and otherwise conveys, with recourse, to LEAF
        II,
        and LEAF II hereby assumes from LEAF IDM, all of LEAF IDM s duties, obligations
        and liabilities in, to and under each of the Purchased Contracts owned by
        LEAF
        IDM as of the date hereof, together with all of LEAF IDM s right, title and
        interest in, to and under each of the Transaction Documents. LEAF IDM s
        delegation, transference and assignment hereunder of the Purchased Contracts
        and
        LEAF IDM s right, title and interest in, to and under each of the Transaction
        Documents is final and irrevocable from and after the Effective Date, and
        none
        of LEAF Funding, LEAF IDM, LEAF Financial, LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE shall
        have
        any right to require that such delegation, transference and assignment terminate
        or that LEAF IDM re-assume such duties, obligations and liabilities from
        LEAF
        II. 

(e)     Each
        of
        the parties hereto consents to the foregoing sales, transfers, assignments,
        conveyances and delegations and each party hereto hereby acknowledge and
        agrees
        that all property, whether tangible or intangible, as sold, transferred,
        assigned, conveyed and delegated is done so subject to the continuing first
        priority Lien of the Lender therein. 

(f)     In
        consideration of the foregoing, LEAF II B SPE shall pay to MLEF a net amount
        equal to $188,824,807.55 (the     Purchase
        Price    ),
        which
        shall include LEAF II B SPE s assumption of the indebtedness and liabilities of
        MLEF then due and owing under the Existing Transaction Documents in the
        principal amount of $173,043.222.82. All amounts payable to MLEF in cash
        shall
        be paid in same day funds, without defense, setoff or counterclaim, and shall
        be
        made to an account of MLEF or Affiliate thereof that has been notified to
        LEAF
        II in writing 

SECTION
        2.      Amendment   .
        As of
        the Effective Date: 

(a)      Purchase,
        Sale and Contribution Agreement   .
        The
        Purchase, Sale and Contribution Agreement is hereby amended as
        follows: 

(i)     Each
        reference therein to  Borrower  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II B
        SPE, as assignee of MLEF. 

(ii)     
        Each
        reference therein to  LEAF SPE  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II, as
        assignee of LEAF IDM. 

(iii)     Each
        reference therein to the phrase  the applicable Collection Account  is hereby
        amended by deleting it in its entirety and, in lieu thereof, inserting the
        phrase  the Collection Account . 

(iv)     The
        Definitions and Rules of Construction attached thereto as Appendix A is hereby
        amended and restated in its entirety in the form of Appendix A attached
        hereto. 

(3) 

(v)     The
        Form
        of Purchase Date Notice attached thereto as Exhibit A is hereby amended and
        restated in its entirety in the form of Exhibit I attached hereto. 

(vi)     Section
        2.02 thereof is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and, in lieu
        thereof, the following: 

SECTION
        2.02    Purchase
        Price   .
          In
        consideration of the sale, transference and assignment of the Purchased
        Contracts to be sold, transferred and assigned on any Purchase Date, LEAF
        II
        shall pay to LEAF Funding the Purchase Price for each Purchased Contract
        on the
        applicable Purchase Date, which shall be paid in immediately available funds
        on
        such Purchase Date in accordance with the funding instructions set forth
        in the
        applicable Purchase Date Notice.  

(vii)     Section
        2.03 thereof is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and, in lieu
        thereof, inserting  Section 2.03 Intentionally Omitted.  

(viii)     Section
        3.02(a)(iii)(A)(1) thereof is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety
        and,
        in lieu thereof, inserting  (1) Intentionally Omitted; . 

(ix)     Section
        3.02(f)(i)(A) thereof is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and,
        in
        lieu thereof, inserting  (A) Intentionally Omitted; . 

(b)      Purchase
        and Sale Agreement   .
        The
        Purchase and Sale Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 

(i)     Each
        reference therein to  Borrower  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II B
        SPE, as assignee of MLEF. 

(ii)     
        Each
        reference therein to  LEAF SPE  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II, as
        assignee of LEAF IDM. 

(iii)     Each
        reference therein to the phrase  the applicable Collection Account  is hereby
        amended by deleting it in its entirety and, in lieu thereof, inserting the
        phrase  the Collection Account . 

(iv)     Section
        2.02 thereof is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and, in lieu
        thereof, the following: 

SECTION
        2.02    Purchase
        Price   .
        In
        consideration of the sale, transference and assignment of the Purchased
        Contracts to be sold, transferred and assigned on any Purchase Date, LEAF
        II B
        SPE shall pay to LEAF II the Purchase Price for each Purchased Contract on
        the
        applicable Purchase Date, which shall be paid in immediately available funds
        on
        such Purchase Date in accordance with the funding instructions set forth
        in the
        applicable Purchase Date Notice. Notwithstanding 

(4) 

anything
        herein or in any other Transaction Document to the contrary, as of each Purchase
        Date, the excess, if any, of the fair market value of any Purchased Contract
        over the Purchase Price for such Purchased Contract on such Purchase Date
        shall
        be deemed to be a contribution to the capital of LEAF II B SPE by LEAF II,
        which
        shall increase LEAF II s beneficial ownership interest in LEAF II B
        SPE.  

(v)     Section
        2.04 thereof is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety. 

(vi)     Article
        VIII thereof is hereby amended by inserting the following at the end
        thereof: 

SECTION
        8.14    Relationship
        of LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE   . 

(a)     The
        relationship between LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE shall be that of buyer and
        seller. Neither is a trustee or agent for the other, nor does either have
        fiduciary obligations to other. This Agreement shall not be construed to
        create
        a partnership or joint venture between LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE. 

(b)     LEAF
        II B
        SPE shall maintain at all times a telephone number different from any telephone
        numbers of LEAF II. LEAF II B SPE shall use stationery separate from that
        of
        LEAF II. 

(c)     LEAF
        II B
        SPE and LEAF II shall take steps to ensure that their respective creditors
        are
        aware that LEAF II B SPE is a legal entity separate and distinct from any
        other
        Entity and maintains its assets, and conducts its operations, separate from
        those of any other Entity. Neither LEAF II B SPE nor LEAF II shall fail to
        correct any known misunderstanding regarding their separate identity. LEAF
        II
        shall not purport to operate as an integrated, single economic unit with
        LEAF II
        B SPE in dealing with any unaffiliated Entity. LEAF II shall not finance
        LEAF II
        B SPE s operations or guarantee LEAF II B SPE s obligations. LEAF II B SPE shall
        pay from its own funds, to the extent funds are available, its operating
        expenses and liabilities, including legal fees and expenses, or shall reimburse
        LEAF II for any such expenses or liabilities paid by LEAF II on LEAF II B
        SPE s
        behalf. LEAF II B SPE shall not hold out the assets or creditworthiness of
        LEAF
        II as being available for the payment of LEAF II B SPE s liabilities or
        obligations, and LEAF II B SPE shall not hold out its assets or creditworthiness
        as being available for the payment of the liabilities or obligations of LEAF
        II
        or any of its affiliates other than LEAF II B SPE. LEAF II shall not hold
        out
        the assets or creditworthiness of LEAF II B SPE, nor shall LEAF II B SPE
        permit
        LEAF II to hold its assets or creditworthiness, as being available for the
        payment of the liabilities or obligations of LEAF II or any of its affiliates
        (other than LEAF II B SPE). LEAF II shall not hold out the assets
        or 

(5) 

creditworthiness
        of it or any of its affiliates (other than LEAF II B SPE) as being available
        for
        the payment of the liabilities or obligations of LEAF II B SPE. LEAF II B
        SPE
        shall not permit the assets or creditworthiness of LEAF II or any of its
        affiliates (other than LEAF II B SPE) to be held out as being available for
        payment of the liabilities or obligations of LEAF II B SPE. Neither LEAF
        II nor
        LEAF II B SPE shall use or permit the separate trust existence of LEAF II
        B SPE
        to be used by LEAF II to abuse creditors or to perpetrate a fraud, injury,
        or
        injustice on creditors. 

(d)     LEAF
        II
        and LEAF II B SPE shall each conduct its respective business separate and
        apart
        from the business conducted by the other. LEAF II B SPE shall maintain its
        books
        and records distinct and separately identifiable from the corporate records
        of
        LEAF II and any other Entity. LEAF II B SPE shall prepare financial records
        distinct and separately identifiable from the financial records of LEAF II
        or
        any of its affiliates (other than LEAF II B SPE). LEAF II B SPE shall prepare
        and maintain such statements and reports in accordance with generally accepted
        accounting principles. LEAF II shall indicate in such consolidated financial
        statements that the assets of LEAF II B SPE are not available to satisfy
        the
        creditors of any Entity other than LEAF II B SPE. To the extent that LEAF
        II B
        SPE is required to file tax returns under applicable law, LEAF II B SPE shall
        file such tax returns separate from those of any other Entity. LEAF II B
        SPE
        shall keep its funds and bank accounts separate and apart from the funds
        of LEAF
        II and any of its affiliates (other than LEAF II B SPE), and shall maintain
        its
        other assets separately identifiable and distinguishable from the assets
        of LEAF
        II and any of its affiliates (other than LEAF II B SPE). LEAF II B SPE shall
        not
        commingle its funds or other assets with those of any other Entity. 

(e)     LEAF
        II B
        SPE shall act solely in its own name and solely through its duly Authorized
        Officers or agents. LEAF II B SPE shall comply with the provisions of its
        limited liability company agreement, and shall comply in all material respects
        with the laws of the State of Delaware, insofar as they pertain to its
        separateness. In addition, LEAF II, as the sole member of LEAF II B SPE,
        shall
        execute such consents as may be necessary to authorize action by LEAF II
        B SPE,
        and LEAF II B SPE shall maintain appropriate records of its written consents
        and
        shall observe all requisite corporate formalities insofar as they pertain
        to
        LEAF II B SPE s separate existence. 

(f)     All
        transactions between LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE are and shall be duly authorized
        and documented, and recorded accurately in their respective books and records.
        All such transactions shall be fair to each party, constitute exchanges for
        fair
        consideration and for reasonably equivalent value, and shall be made in good
        faith and without any intent to 

(6) 

hinder,
        delay, or defraud creditors. LEAF II B SPE shall not take any action, and
        shall
        not engage in transactions with LEAF II or any of its Affiliates (other than
        LEAF II B SPE) except as directed by LEAF II, and LEAF II shall not give
        any
        directions that are prohibited by LEAF II B SPE s limited liability company
        agreement.  

(c)      Loan
        Agreement   .
        The
        Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 

(i)     Each
        reference therein to  Borrower  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II B
        SPE, as assignee of MLEF. 

(ii)     Each
        reference therein to  LEAF SPE  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II, as
        assignee of LEAF IDM. 

(iii)     The
        form
        of Class A Note attached thereto as Exhibit A is hereby amended and restated
        in
        its entirety in the form of Exhibit II attached hereto. 

(iv)     The
        form
        of Class B Note attached thereto as Exhibit B is hereby deleted in its
        entirety. 

(v)     Section
        2.01 thereof is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and, in lieu
        thereof, the following: 

SECTION
        2.01    Commitment   .
        During
        the Effective Period, subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth,
        the
        Lender agrees to make Advances to LEAF II B SPE in an aggregate principal
        amount
        not to exceed the Commitment. The Commitment shall automatically and permanently
        be reduced to zero on the Expiry Date. Subject to the terms, provisions and
        limitations set forth herein, LEAF II B SPE may borrow and repay, but not
        reborrow, Advances on or after the Closing Date and prior to the Expiry
        Date.  

(vi)     Section
        2.02(a) thereof is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and, in
        lieu
        thereof, the following: 

(a)
        Upon
        receipt of the Purchase Date Notice, and subject to the terms and conditions
        hereof, the Lender shall make Advances to LEAF II B SPE on the applicable
        Purchase Date in an aggregate amount equal to (x) the Advance Rate as of
        such
        date    times   
        (y) the
        Contract Value of each Purchased Contract to be purchased as of such Purchase
        Date.  

(vii)     Section
        2.03(c) thereof is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and, in
        lieu
        thereof, the following: 

(c)
        If
        requested in writing by the Lender, all Advances made by the Lender to LEAF
        II B
        SPE shall be evidenced by a single Note duly executed on behalf of LEAF II
        B SPE
        and delivered to and made payable 

(7) 

to
        the
        order of the Lender in a principal amount equal to the amount of the
        Commitment.  

(viii)     The
        second sentence of Section 2.04 thereof is hereby amended by deleting it
        in its
        entirety and, in lieu thereof, the following: 

Each
        Advance shall bear interest on the principal amount thereof from time to
        time
        outstanding, from the date of on which such Advance is made until such principal
        amount becomes due, at a rate per annum equal to the sum of (i) the LIBO
        Rate,
   plus   
        (ii) the
        Facility Rate; provided, upon the occurrence of a Servicer Default each Advance
        shall bear interest on the principal amount thereof from time to time
        outstanding, from the date of such occurrence until such principal amount
        becomes due, at a rate per annum equal to the Default Funding
        Rate.  

(ix)     Section
        2.05 thereof is hereby amended by deleting the phrase  the Applicable Priority
        of Payments  in its entirety and, in lieu thereof, inserting the phrase  the
        Priority of Payments . 

(x)     Section
        3.02(d) thereof is hereby amended by deleting the  and  at the end of clause
        (iii) thereof, deleting the  .  at the end of clause (iv) thereof inserting, in
        lieu thereof   and; , and inserting the following the following at the end
        thereof: 

(v)
        immediately prior to and after giving effect to the Advances to be made on
        such
        Purchase Date, (x) the Maximum Advance Amount as of such date does not exceed
        the aggregate amount of the Note Balance as of such date, and (y) the aggregate
        amount of the Note Balance as of such date does not exceed the Commitment
        in
        effect as of such date.  

(xi)     Section
        4.01 thereof is hereby amended by inserting the following the following at
        the
        end thereof:  

(f)
           No
        Proceedings   .
        There
        are no proceedings, injunctions, writs, restraining orders or investigations
        pending or, to the best knowledge of LEAF II B SPE, threatened against LEAF
        II B
        SPE before any Governmental Authority (i) asserting the illegality, invalidity
        or unenforceability, or seeking any determination or ruling that would affect
        the legality, validity or enforceability of, this Agreement or any of the
        other
        Transaction Documents, (ii) seeking to prevent the consummation of any of
        the
        transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any of the other Transaction
        Documents, or (iii) seeking any determination or ruling that is reasonably
        likely to affect adversely the financial condition or operations of LEAF
        II B
        SPE or the validity or enforceability of, or the performance by LEAF II B
        SPE of
        its obligations under, this Agreement or any of the other Transaction
        Documents. 

(8) 

(g)
           No
        Consents   .
        No
        authorization, consent, license, order or approval of, filing, registration
        or
        declaration with, or notice to, any Person, including, without limitation,
        any
        Governmental Authority, is required for LEAF II B SPE in connection with
        the
        execution and delivery of this Agreement or any of the other Transaction
        Documents by LEAF II B SPE or the performance of its obligations under this
        Agreement or any of the other Transaction Documents, except for the filing
        of
        documents required to have been filed on or prior to the Closing Date or
        a
        Purchase Date pursuant to Sections 3.01 and 3.02, all of which were so filed
        and
        are in full force and effect. 

(h)
           Ownership;
        Liens   . 

(i)
        On
        each Purchase Date, LEAF II B SPE is the sole and exclusive owner of each
        Purchased Contract purchased by LEAF II B SPE on such date, each such Purchased
        Contract is free and clear of any Lien and no effective financing statement
        or
        other instrument similar in effect covering such Purchased Contract is on
        file
        in any recording office. 

(ii)
        As
        of each Purchase Date, each Purchased Contract shall be acquired by LEAF
        II B
        SPE from LEAF II free and clear of any Lien except Permitted Liens. 

(i)
           Location   .
        The
        principal place of business and major executive office of LEAF II B SPE,
        and the
        offices where LEAF II B SPE keeps the originals of its books, records and
        documents regarding the Purchased Contracts sold hereunder, are located at
        LEAF
        II B SPE s address specified in Section 8.09. 

(j)
           Valid
        Lien   .
        This
        Agreement creates, to secure the Obligations, a valid security interest (as
        defined in the UCC) in the Collateral and, upon the filing of the financing
        statements on Form UCC-1 described in Section 3.01, Lender will have a valid
        first priority perfected security interest in the Collateral (subject to
        Section
        9-315 of the UCC). 

(k)
           Solvency   .
        LEAF II
        B SPE is solvent and will not become insolvent after giving effect to the
        transactions contemplated by this Agreement. LEAF II B SPE is currently repaying
        all of its indebtedness as such indebtedness becomes due; and, after giving
        effect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, LEAF II B SPE
        will
        have adequate capital to conduct its business as presently conducted and
        as
        contemplated by this Agreement. 

(l)
           Compliance   .
        LEAF II
        B SPE has complied, and will comply on each Purchase Date, in all respects
        with
        all Requirements of Law with respect to it, its business and properties and
        all
        Purchased Contracts sold 

(9) 

hereunder.
        LEAF II B SPE has maintained and will maintain all applicable permits,
        certifications and licenses necessary in any respect with respect to its
        business and properties and all Purchased Contracts sold hereunder, LEAF
        II B
        SPE has filed or caused to be filed, and will file, on a timely basis all
        tax
        returns required by any Governmental Authority. 

(m)
           No
        Rescission   .
        No
        Purchased Contract has been satisfied, subordinated or rescinded or, except
        as
        disclosed in writing to Lender, amended in any manner. 

(n)
           No
        Insolvency Event   .
        No
        Insolvency Event has occurred with respect to LEAF II B SPE nor, in LEAF
        II B
        SPE s good faith judgment, is any Insolvency Event anticipated to occur with
        respect to LEAF II B SPE in the foreseeable future. 

(o)
           Fraudulent
        Conveyance   .
        LEAF II
        B SPE is not entering into the transactions contemplated hereby with any
        intent
        of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors. 

(p)
           Eligible
        Contracts   .
        As of
        the relevant Purchase Date: 

(i)
        each
        Purchased Contract sold on such date is an Eligible Contract and the transfer,
        sale and conveyance to LEAF II hereunder of such Purchased Contract does
        not
        conflict with, result in a breach of any of the provisions of, or constitute
        (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) a default under, such
        Purchased Contract or violate any Requirement of Law or subject the Lender
        to
        any fine, penalty or liability; and 

(ii)
        the
        information set forth in the Purchase Date Notice with respect to each Purchased
        Contract to be purchased on such date, together with the applicable electronic
        data file provided in connection therewith, is and shall be true and
        correct. 

(q)
           No
        Proceedings   .
        There
        are no proceedings, injunctions, writs, restraining orders or investigations
        pending or, to the best knowledge of an Authorized Officer of LEAF II B SPE,
        threatened with respect to any Purchased Contract before any Governmental
        Authority asserting the illegality, invalidity or unenforceability, or seeking
        any determination or ruling that would affect the legality, validity or
        enforceability of any such Purchased Contract. 

(r)
           Legal
        Name   .
        The
        legal name of LEAF II B SPE is LEAF II B SPE, LLC. 

(s)
           ERISA   .
        No Plan
        (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) maintained by LEAF II B SPE or any
        of its
        ERISA Affiliates (as defined in Section 

(10) 

414(b),
        (c), (m) or (o) of the Code) has any accumulated funding deficiency (within
        the
        meaning of Section 302 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code), whether or not
        waived, LEAF II B SPE and each ERISA Affiliate of LEAF II B SPE have, in
        a
        timely manner, made all contributions required to be made by it to any Plan
        and
        Multiemployer Plan (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) to which
        contributions are or have been required to be made by LEAF II B SPE or such
        ERISA Affiliate, and no event requiring notice to the Pension Benefit Guaranty
        Corporation under Section 302(f) of ERISA has occurred and is continuing
        or
        could reasonably be expected to occur with respect to any such Plan, in any
        case, that could reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly,
        in
        any Lien being imposed on the property of LEAF II B SPE or the payment of
        any
        material amount to avoid such Lien. No Reportable Event (as defined in Section
        4043 of ERISA) with respect to LEAF II B SPE or any of its ERISA Affiliates
        has
        occurred or could reasonably be expected to occur that could reasonably be
        expected to result, directly or indirectly, in any Lien being imposed on
        the
        property of LEAF II B SPE or the payment of any material amount to avoid
        such
        Lien. 

(t)
           PATRIOT
        Act   .
        To the
        extent applicable, LEAF II B SPE is in compliance, in all material respects,
        with the (i) Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, and each of the
        foreign assets control regulations of the Untied States Treasury Department
        (31
        CFR, Subtitle B, Chapter V, as amended) and any other enabling legislation
        or
        executive order relating thereto, and (ii) the PATRIOT Act. No part of the
        proceeds of any Advance will be used, directly or indirectly, for any payments
        to any governmental official or employee, political party, official of a
        political party, candidate for political office, or anyone else acting in
        an
        official capacity, in order to obtain, retain or direct business or obtain
        any
        improper advantage, in violation of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices
        Act of 1977, as amended.  

(xii)     Section
        5.01(e) thereof is hereby amended by deleting the phrase  the applicable
        Collection Account  in its entirety and, in lieu thereof, inserting the phrase
 the Collection Account . 

(xiii)     Section
        5.01(f) thereof is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and, in
        lieu
        thereof, inserting the following: 

(f)
           Reporting
        Requirements   . 

(i)
        LEAF
        II B SPE shall (A) within one Business Day after an Authorized Officer of
        LEAF
        II B SPE obtains knowledge of the occurrence of any Potential Termination
        Event
        or any Termination Event, notify (either orally or in writing) the Lender
        of
        such 

(11) 

occurrence
        and (B) as soon as possible and in any event within three Business Days after
        an
        Authorized Officer of LEAF II B SPE obtains knowledge of the occurrence of
        any
        Potential Termination Event or any Termination Event, deliver to Lender,
        the
        Lender a statement of an Authorized Officer of LEAF II B SPE setting forth
        details of such Termination Event or such event and the action that LEAF
        II B
        SPE has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. 

(ii)
        As
        soon as possible and in any event within 10 Business Days after an Authorized
        Officer of LEAF II B SPE obtains knowledge thereof, LEAF II B SPE shall notify
        the Lender of any litigation, investigation or proceeding that could reasonably
        be expected to impair in any respect the ability of LEAF II B SPE to perform
        its
        obligations under this Agreement. 

(iii)
        LEAF II B SPE shall promptly deliver to Lender such other information,
        documents, records or reports regarding the Purchased Contracts as Lender
        may
        from time to time reasonably request in order to protect Lender s interests
        under or as contemplated by this Agreement.  

(xiv)     Section
        5.01 thereof is hereby amended by inserting the following at the end
        thereof: 

(g)
           Extension
        or Amendment of Contract Receivables   .
        Except
        as otherwise permitted under the Servicing Agreement, LEAF II B SPE will
        not (i)
        extend, amend or otherwise modify the terms of any Purchased Contract or
        (ii)
        rescind or cancel any Purchased Contract. 

(h)
           No
        Actions Against Obligors   .
        Except
        in accordance with the Servicing Agreement, LEAF II B SPE will not commence
        or
        settle any legal action to enforce any rights under any Purchased
        Contract.  

(xv)     Article
        VIII thereof is hereby amended by inserting the following at the end
        thereof: 

SECTION
        8.11    Indemnification   .
        Without
        limiting any other rights that any of the Indemnified Parties may have hereunder
        or under any applicable law, LEAF II B SPE hereby agrees to indemnify the
        Indemnified Parties from and against any and all Indemnified Amounts, whether
        direct, indirect or consequential, as a result of or arising from or relating
        to
        or in connection with any of the following: 

(a)
        the
        reliance by any of the Indemnified Parties on any representation or warranty
        made by LEAF II B SPE under this Agreement that was incorrect in any respect
        when made or deemed made; 

(12) 

(b)
        any
        breach by Lender of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other
        Transaction Document; 

(c)
        any
        claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing,
        whether or not any Indemnified Party is a party thereto; 

(d)
        any
        commingling by LEAF II B SPE of Collections with other funds of LEAF II B
        SPE or
        any of its Affiliates; or 

(e)
        any
        breach by LEAF II B SPE of any obligation under, or any violation by LEAF
        II B
        SPE of any Requirement of Law with respect to, any Purchased
        Contract; 

provided,       however   ,
        that
        LEAF II B SPE shall not have any obligation to any Indemnified Party pursuant
        to
        this Section 8.11 for any of the foregoing (x) caused by the gross negligence
        or
        willful misconduct of such Indemnified Party as determined by a final judgment
        of a court of competent jurisdiction or (y) that arise out of facts and
        circumstances related to the Purchased Contracts occurring prior to the
        Effective Date. To the extent that the undertaking to indemnify, pay and
        hold
        harmless set forth in this Section 8.11 may be unenforceable because it is
        violative of any law or public policy, LEAF II B SPE shall contribute the
        maximum portion which it is permitted to pay and satisfy under applicable
        law,
        to the payment and satisfaction of all Indemnified Amounts incurred by the
        Indemnified Parties. 

Each
        Indemnified Party shall use reasonable efforts to notify LEAF II B SPE in
        advance of making any claim under this Section. Any Indemnified Amounts due
        under this Section shall be payable when incurred and, in any event, within
        ten
        Business Days of submission of a claim by the Indemnified Party. This Section
        shall survive the payment of all amounts otherwise due under this
        Agreement.  

(d)      Servicing
        Agreement   .
        The
        Servicing Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 

(i)     Each
        reference therein to  Borrower  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II B
        SPE, as assignee of MLEF. 

(ii)     Each
        reference therein to  LEAF SPE  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II, as
        assignee of LEAF IDM. 

(iii)     Each
        reference therein to the phrase  the applicable Collection Account  or the
        phrase  the applicable Collection Account  is hereby amended by deleting it in
        its entirety and, in lieu thereof, inserting the phrase  the Collection
        Account . 

(13) 

(iv)     Each
        reference therein to the phrase  the Applicable Priority of Payments  is hereby
        amended by deleting it in its entirety and, in lieu thereof, inserting the
        phrase  the Priority of Payments . 

(v)     Section
        2.01(b) thereof is hereby amended by deleting the phrase  the Master DDA, the
        Collection Accounts and the Reserve Accounts  in its entirety and, in lieu
        thereof, inserting the phrase  the Master DDA and the Collection
        Account . 

(vi)     Section
        2.01(c)(iv) thereof is hereby amended by deleting the phrase  and all funds on
        deposit in the applicable Reserve Account  in its entirety. 

(vii)     Section
        2.01(c)(v) thereof is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and,
        in lieu
        thereof, inserting the phrase  Intentionally Omitted . 

(viii)     Section
        2.01(f)(ii) thereof is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and,
        in
        lieu thereof, inserting the following: 

(ii)
        at
        the Servicer s expense, with the prior written consent of the Lender, and
        subject to Section 2.01(g), entering into subservicing arrangements with
        any Person for the purpose of administering or collecting the
        Collections.  

(ix)     Section
        4.01(b)(i) thereof is hereby amended by deleting the phrase  the Master DDA, the
        Collection Accounts and the Reserve Accounts  in its entirety and, in lieu
        thereof, inserting the phrase  the Master DDA and the Collection
        Account . 

(e)      Back-up
        Servicing Agreement   .
        The
        Back-up Servicing Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 

(i)     Each
        reference therein to  Borrower  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II B
        SPE, as assignee of MLEF. 

(ii)     Each
        reference therein to  LEAF SPE  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II, as
        assignee of LEAF IDM. 

(iii)     Section
        2.04 thereof is hereby amended by deleting the phrase  the Applicable Priority
        of Payments  in its entirety and, in lieu thereof, inserting the phrase  the
        Priority of Payments . 

(f)      Paying
        Agent Agreement   .
        The
        Paying Agent Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 

(i)     Each
        reference therein to  Borrower  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II B
        SPE, as assignee of MLEF. 

(14) 

(ii)     Each
        reference therein to  LEAF SPE  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II, as
        assignee of LEAF IDM. 

(iii)     Each
        reference therein to the phrase  the applicable Collection Account  or the
        phrase  the applicable Collection Account  or the phrase  either Collection
        Account  is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and, in lieu thereof,
        inserting the phrase  the Collection Account . 

(iv)     Each
        reference therein to the phrase  the Applicable Priority of Payments  is hereby
        amended by deleting it in its entirety and, in lieu thereof, inserting the
        phrase  the Priority of Payments . 

(v)     Section
        3(a) thereof is hereby amended by deleting the phrase  the Master DDA, the
        Collection Accounts and the Reserve Accounts  in its entirety and, in lieu
        thereof, inserting the phrase  the Master DDA and the Collection
        Account . 

(vi)     Section
        5(b) thereof is hereby amended as follows by deleting it in its entirety
        and, in
        lieu thereof, inserting the phrase  Intentionally Omitted . 

(vii)     Sections
        6(b), 6(c) and 6(d) thereof are each hereby amended by deleting it in its
        entirety. 

(viii)     Section
        7(b) thereof is hereby amended by deleting the phrase  and funds on deposit in
        the applicable Reserve Account, in each case,  in its entirety. 

(g)      Custodial
        Agreement   .
        The
        Paying Agent Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 

(i)     Each
        reference therein to  Borrower  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II B
        SPE, as assignee of MLEF. 

(ii)     Each
        reference therein to  LEAF SPE  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II, as
        assignee of LEAF IDM. 

(h)      Master
        DDA Control Agreement   .
        The
        Master DDA Control Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 

(i)     Each
        reference therein to  Borrower  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II B
        SPE, as assignee of MLEF. 

(ii)     Each
        reference therein to  LEAF SPE  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II, as
        assignee of LEAF IDM. 

(i)      Master
        DDA Intercreditor Agreement   .
        The
        Master DDA Intercreditor Agreement is hereby amended as
        follows: 

(15) 

(i)     Each
        reference therein to  Borrower  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II B
        SPE, as assignee of MLEF. 

(ii)     Each
        reference therein to  LEAF SPE  shall be deemed to be a reference to LEAF II, as
        assignee of LEAF IDM. 

(j)      Addressees   .
        Each of
        the Transaction Documents is amended to provide that notice information for
        each
        of the addressees in the Transaction Documents shall be as follows: 

If
        to
        LEAF Funding: 

LEAF
        Funding, Inc. 

        c/o
        LEAF
        Financial Corporation 

        1818
        Market Street, 9   th   
        floor 

        Philadelphia,
        PA 19103 

Tel:     (215)
        569-1844 

        Fax:     (215)
        569-0675 

        Attn:     Crit
        DeMent 

With
        copies to: 

Dar
        Patel, Esq. 

        General
        Counsel 

        LEAF
        Financial Corporation 

        (same
        info as above) 

and: 

Richard
        Abt, Esq. 

        Ledgewood 

        1900
        Market Street, Suite 750 

        Philadelphia,
        PA 19103 

Tel:     (215)
        731-9450 

        Fax:     (215)
        735-2513 

If
        to
        LEAF II: 

Lease
        Equity Appreciation Fund II, L.P.  

        c/o
        LEAF
        Financial Corporation  

        (same
        as
        above) 

If
        to
        LEAF II B SPE: 

LEAF
        II B
        SPE, LLC 

        c/o
        LEAF
        Financial Corporation  

        (same
        as
        above) 

(16) 

If
        to the
        Lender: 

Merrill
        Lynch Commercial Finance Corp. 

        4
        World
        Financial Center,10   th   
        Fl. 

        New
        York,
        NY 10080 

        Tel:     (212)
        449-9369 

        Fax:     (212)
        449-9015 

        Attn:
             Jeffrey
        S. Cohen 

If
        to
        U.S. Bank: 

U.S.
        Bank
        National Association 

        180
        East
        Fifth Street 

        St.
        Paul,
        MN 55101 

        Tel:     (651)
        244-0727 

        Fax:     (651)
        244-1917 

        Attn:
        Structured Finance/Leaf Financial 

SECTION
        3.      Conditions
        Precedent to the Effectiveness of this Agreement   .
        This
        Agreement shall become effective as of the date hereof (the     Effective
        Date    )
        provided that each of the following conditions precedent shall have been
        satisfied, or waived by the Lender and U.S. Bank, on or before such
        date: 

(a)      Purchase
        Price   .
        LEAF II
        B SPE shall have paid to MLEF the Purchase Price in accordance with the terms
        and conditions hereof.      

(b)      Collection
        Accounts and Reserve Accounts   .
        The
        Paying Agent shall have (i) renamed the currently existing  Collection Account
        (Pool A)  as  Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance Corp., as Lender, Account of LEAF
        II B SPE, LLC , which account, as of the Effective Date and thereafter, shall
        for all purposes of the Transaction Documents be the  Collection Account , (ii)
        transferred all amounts then on deposit in the Collection Account (Pool B),
        Reserve Account (Pool A) and Reserve Account (Pool B) into the Collection
        Account, and (iii) terminated each of the Collection Account (Pool B), Reserve
        Account (Pool A) and Reserve Account (Pool B). 

(c)      Delivery
        of Agreements, Documents, Instruments, Etc   .
        The
        Lender shall have received each of the following, each, unless otherwise
        noted,
        dated as of Effective Date: 

(i)     this
        Agreement, executed and delivered by a duly Authorized Officer of each party
        hereto; 

(ii)     a
        Note,
        executed and delivered by a duly Authorized Officer of LEAF II B
        SPE; 

(iii)     an
        Effective Date Notice in form of Exhibit III attached hereto executed and
        delivered by a duly Authorized Officer of LEAF Financial, LEAF Funding, LEAF
        IDM, LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE;  

(17) 

(iv)     copies
        of
        the organizational documents of each of LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE, certified
        by
        the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, or, if such document is
        of a
        type that may not be so certified, certified by the secretary of each of
        LEAF II
        and LEAF II B SPE, as applicable, together with a good standing certificate
        from
        the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and, if applicable, each
        other
        jurisdiction in the United States in which each of LEAF II and LEAF II B
        SPE is
        qualified to do business and, to the extent generally available, a certificate
        or other evidence of good standing as to payment of any applicable franchise
        or
        similar taxes from the appropriate taxing authority of each jurisdiction
        of
        organization, each dated a recent date prior to the Effective Date; 

(v)     resolutions
        of the board of directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or members
        of each of LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE approving and authorizing the execution,
        delivery and performance by such Person of the Transaction Documents to which
        it
        is a party, certified as of the Effective Date by the secretary of each of
        LEAF
        II and LEAF II B SPE, as applicable, as being in full force and effect without
        modification or amendment; 

(vi)     signature
        and incumbency certificates of the officers of each of LEAF II and LEAF II
        B SPE
        executing the Transaction Documents to which it is a party;  

(vii)     executed
        copies of one or more favorable written opinions of counsel for LEAF Financial,
        LEAF Funding, LEAF IDM, LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE in form and substance
        satisfactory to the Lender and its counsel, dated as of the Effective Date
        and
        covering substantially such matters as LEAF II B SPE or the Lender may
        reasonably request (this Agreement constituting a written request by each
        of
        LEAF Financial, LEAF Funding, LEAF IDM, LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE to such
        counsel to deliver such opinions to LEAF II B SPE and the Lender), including,
        without limitation, (x) concerning the potential application to LEAF Funding,
        LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE of the doctrine of  substantive consolidation  under
        the federal bankruptcy laws and (y) concerning the true sale nature of the
        transactions contemplated hereby and the other Transaction Documents;
        and 

(viii)     financing
        statements relating to the conveyance of the Purchased Contracts, naming
        LEAF II
        as debtor, LEAF II B SPE as secured party and LEAF II B SPE as assignee thereof,
        or other similar instruments or documents, as may be necessary or, in the
        opinion of the Lender, desirable under the UCC of any appropriate jurisdiction
        or other applicable law to perfect LEAF II s ownership of the Purchased
        Contracts and a first priority security interest therein, which financing
        statements, instruments or documents shall be filed with the Secretary of
        State
        of the State of Delaware and such other filing offices as may be necessary
        or
        appropriate. 

(18) 

(d)      Representations
        and Warranties   .
        As of
        the date hereof, the representations and warranties made herein by LEAF Funding,
        LEAF IDM, LEAF Financial, LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE shall be true and correct
        in
        all material respects on and as of such date as if made on and as of such
        date
        (except to the extent such representation or warranty expressly relates to
        an
        earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall be true
        and
        correct in all material respects as of such earlier date). 

(e)      No
        Potential Termination Event or Termination Event   .
        No
        Potential Termination Event or Termination Event shall have occurred and
        be
        continuing or shall occur as a result of this Agreement. 

SECTION
        4.      Representations
        and Warranties   .
        To
        induce MLEF, the Lender and U.S. Bank to enter into this Agreement, each
        of LEAF
        Funding, LEAF IDM, LEAF Financial, LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE hereby represent
        and warrant to MLEF, the Lender and U.S. Bank as follows as of the date
        hereof: 

(a)      Representations
        and Warranties - Transaction Documents   .
        The
        representations and warranties made by each of LEAF Funding, LEAF IDM, LEAF
        Financial, LEAF II and LEAF II B SPE in any Transaction Document (giving
        effect
        to the transactions contemplated hereby) are true and correct in all material
        respects on and as of such date as if made on and as of such date (except
        to the
        extent such representation or warranty expressly relates to an earlier date,
        in
        which case such representation or warranty shall be true and correct in all
        material respects as of such earlier date). 

(b)      Representations
        and Warranties - This Agreement   .

(i)     It
        is
        duly organized and validly existing as a corporation, limited liability company
        or limited partnership, as the case may be, in good standing under the laws
        of
        the State of Delaware. It has full power, authority and legal right to own
        its
        properties and conduct its business, as presently owned and conducted, and
        as is
        proposed to be conducted under this Agreement (and, in the case of LEAF II
        B
        SPE, the Note), and to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under
        this
        Agreement (and, in the case of LEAF II B SPE, the Note). 

(ii)     It
        is
        duly qualified to do business (or is exempt from such qualification
        requirements), is in good standing, and has obtained all Governmental
        Authorizations in each jurisdiction in which qualification and such Governmental
        Authorization are required in connection with the conduct its business, as
        presently owned and conducted, and as is proposed to be conducted under this
        Agreement (and, in the case of LEAF II B SPE, the Note), and the execution,
        delivery and performance of its obligations under this Agreement (and, in
        the
        case of LEAF II B SPE, the Note), except to the extent that any failure to
        be so
        qualified could not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse
        effect. 

(iii)     Its
        execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement (and, in the case of
        LEAF
        II B SPE, the Note) and the consummation of the transactions 

(19) 

contemplated
        by this Agreement (and, in the case of LEAF II B SPE, the Note) have been
        duly
        and validly authorized by all necessary action on the part of it. 

(iv)     This
        Agreement (and, in the case of LEAF II B SPE, the Note) constitutes a valid
        and
        legally binding obligation of it, enforceable against it in accordance with
        its
        terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy,
        reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other similar laws affecting
        creditors  rights generally, now and hereafter in effect, and except as such
        enforceability may be limited by general principles of equity (whether
        considered in a suit at law or in equity). 

(v)     Its
        execution and delivery of this Agreement (and, in the case of LEAF II B SPE,
        the
        Note), its performance of the transactions contemplated hereby and its
        fulfillment of the terms hereof and thereof applicable to it do not (A)
        contravene it s organizational documents, (B) conflict with or violate any
        Requirements of Law applicable to it, (C) violate any provision of, or require
        any filing, registration, consent or approval under, any Requirement of Law
        presently in effect having applicability to it, except for such filings,
        registrations, consents or approvals as have already been obtained or made
        and
        are in full force and effect, and (D) conflict with, result in any breach
        of any
        of the terms or provisions of, or constitute (with or without notice or lapse
        of
        time or both) a default under, any indenture, Purchased Contract, agreement,
        mortgage, deed of trust or other instrument to which it is a party or by
        which
        it or its properties or assets are bound which conflict, violation, default
        or
        breach would have an adverse effect on it s ability to perform its obligations
        hereunder or on the ownership of the Purchased Contracts. 

(vi)     There
        are
        no proceedings, injunctions, writs, restraining orders or investigations
        pending
        or, to the best knowledge of it, threatened against it before any Governmental
        Authority (A) asserting the illegality, invalidity or unenforceability, or
        seeking any determination or ruling that would affect the legality, validity
        or
        enforceability of, this Agreement (and, in the case of LEAF II B SPE, the
        Note),
        (B) seeking to prevent the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated
        by this Agreement (and, in the case of LEAF II B SPE, the Note), or (C) seeking
        any determination or ruling that is reasonably likely to affect adversely
        the
        financial condition or operations of it or the validity or enforceability
        of, or
        the performance by it of its obligations under, this Agreement (and, in the
        case
        of LEAF II B SPE, the Note). 

(vii)     No
        authorization, consent, license, order or approval of, filing, registration
        or
        declaration with, or notice to, any Person, including, without limitation,
        any
        Governmental Authority, is required for it in connection with the execution
        and
        delivery of this Agreement (and, in the case of LEAF II B SPE, the Note)
        by it
        or the performance of its obligations under this Agreement (and, in
        the 

(20) 

case
        of
        LEAF II B SPE, the Note), except for the filing of documents required to
        have
        been filed on or promptly after the Effective Date. 

(c)      No
        Potential Termination Event or Termination Event   .
        No
        Potential Termination Event or Termination Event has occurred and is continuing
        or shall occur as a result of this Agreement. 

SECTION
        5.      Reference
        to and Effect on the Transaction Documents.   
        As of
        the Effective Date, any reference in any Transaction Document to a Transaction
        Document shall be to such Transaction Document as amended hereby.  

SECTION
        6.      Counterparts   .
        This
        Agreement may be executed by one or more of the parties to this Agreement
        on any
        number of separate counterparts (including by facsimile transmission of
        signature pages hereto), and all of said counterparts taken together shall
        be
        deemed to constitute one and the same instrument. 

SECTION
        7.      Severability   .
        Any
        provision of this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any
        jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent
        of
        such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining
        provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any
        jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision
        in any
        other jurisdiction. 

SECTION
        8.      Integration   .
        This
        Agreement and the other Transaction Documents represent the agreement of
        LEAF
        Funding, LEAF IDM, LEAF Financial, LEAF II, LEAF II B SPE, MLEF, the Lender
        and
        U.S. Bank with respect to the subject matter hereof, and there are no promises,
        undertakings, representations or warranties by LEAF II B SPE, Lender or U.S.
        Bank relative to subject matter hereof not expressly set forth or referred
        to
        herein or in the Transaction Documents. 

SECTION
        9.      GOVERNING
        LAW   
        AND THE
        RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND
        CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW
        YORK. 

SECTION
        10.      PATRIOT
        ACT   .
        Purchaser hereby notifies each of LEAF Funding, LEAF IDM, LEAF Financial,
        LEAF
        II, LEAF II B SPE that pursuant to the requirements of the PATRIOT Act, it
        is
        required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each such
        Person, which information includes the name and address of each such Person
        and
        other information that will allow such Purchaser to identify each of LEAF
        Funding, LEAF IDM, LEAF Financial, LEAF II, LEAF II B SPE in accordance with
        the
        PATRIOT Act. 

(21) 

IN
        WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed
        by
        their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first
        above
        written. 

LEAF
        FINANCIAL CORPORATION 

By:       

        Name:

Title:

LEAF
        FUNDING, INC. 

By:       

        Name:

Title:

LEAF
        INSTITUTIONAL DIRECT MANAGEMENT, LLC 

By:
        LEAF
        Funding, Inc., its sole member 

By:       

        Name:

Title: 

LEASE
        EQUITY APPRECIATION FUND II, L.P. 

By:
        LEAF
        Financial Corporation, its general partner 

By:       

        Name:

Title: 

LEAF
        II B
        SPE, LLC 

By:
        Lease
        Equity Appreciation Fund II, L.P., its sole member 

By:
        LEAF
        Financial Corporation, its general partner 

By:       

        Name:

Title: 

(22) 

MERRILL
        LYNCH EQUIPMENT FINANCE LLC 

By:       

        Name:

Title:

MERRILL
        LYNCH COMMERCIAL FINANCE CORP. 

By:       

        Name:

Title:

U.S.
        BANK
        NATIONAL ASSOCIATION 

By:       

        Name:

Title: 

(23) 

Appendix
        A  

[as
        attached]  

Exhibit
        I  

[as
        attached]  

Exhibit
        II  

[as
        attached]  

Exhibit
        III  

[as
        attached]  

</EX-10.10(A)>

<EX-10.15>
 4
 ex10_15.htm
 COMMERCE LOAN AGREEMENT 080406

Commerce Loan Agreement 080406

LOAN
      AND SECURITY AGREEMENT  

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC. 

with 

COMMERCE
      BANK, N.A.,  

as
      Agent,
      Arranger and Issuing Bank  

and 

THE
      FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS  

NOW
      OR
      HEREAFTER LISTED ON SCHEDULE A, 

as
      Lenders 

TABLE
      OF CONTENTS  

ii 

iii 

EXHIBITS
        AND SCHEDULES   

Exhibit
                  A 

-- 

Form
                  of Authorization Certificate 

Exhibit
                  B 

-- 

Form
                  of Borrowing Request 

Exhibit
                  C 

-- 

Form
                  of Borrowing Base Certificate 

Exhibit
                  D 

-- 

Form
                  of Compliance Certificate 

Schedule
                  A 

-- 

Schedule
                  of Lenders 

Schedule
                  B 

-- 

Address
                  of Lenders 

Schedule
                  1.1(b) 

-- 

Permitted
                  Liens 

Schedule
                  5.1 

-- 

Borrower's
                  States of Qualifications 

Schedule
                  5.2 

-- 

Places
                  of Business 

Schedule
                  5.3 

-- 

Judgments,
                  Proceedings, Litigation and Orders 

Schedule
                  5.7 

-- 

Federal
                  Tax Identification Numbers 

Schedule
                  5.9 

-- 

Subsidiary
                  and Affiliates 

Schedule
                  5.11 

-- 

Employee
                  Benefit Plans 

Schedule
                  5.12(a) 

-- 

Schedule
                  of Names 

Schedule
                  5.13(b) 

-- 

Trademarks,
                  Patents and Copyrights 

Schedule
                  5.13 

-- 

Other
                  Associations 

iv 

LOAN
      AND SECURITY AGREEMENT   

This
      Loan
      and Security Agreement ( Agreement ) is dated the 4th day of August, 2006, by
      and among Resource America, Inc. a Delaware corporation ( Borrower ), Commerce
      Bank, N.A., a national banking association, in its capacity as agent ( Agent ),
      Commerce Bank, N.A. in its capacity as issuing bank ( Issuing Bank ) and each of
      the financial institutions which are now or hereafter identified as Lenders
      on
      Schedule A attached hereto and made a part of this Agreement (as such Schedule
      may be amended, modified or replaced from time to time), (each such financial
      institutions, individually each being a  Lender  and collectively all being
 Lenders ). 

BACKGROUND  

Borrower
      desires to establish financing arrangements with Lenders for general working
      capital purposes, including interim funding of investments. Lenders are willing
      to make loans and grant extensions of credit to Borrower under the terms and
      provisions hereinafter set forth.  

NOW,
      THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants set forth in this Agreement,
      the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:

SECTION
      1.     DEFINITIONS
      AND INTERPRETATION  

1.1      Terms
      Defined   :
      As used
      in this Agreement, the following terms have the following respective meanings,
      or the meanings ascribed to them in the referenced Section: 

Advance(s)   
      - Any
      monies advanced or credit extended to Borrower by any Lender under the Revolving
      Credit, including without limitation cash advances and the Letter of Credit
      Amount with respect to the issuance of Letters of Credit. 

Affiliate   
      - With
      respect to any Person, (a) any Person which, directly or indirectly through
      one
      or more intermediaries controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control
      with, such Person, or (b) any Person who is a director or officer (i) of such
      Person, (ii) of any Subsidiary of such Person, or (iii) any person described
      in
      clause (a) above. For purposes of this definition, control of a Person shall
      mean the power, directly or indirectly, (x) to vote 10% or more of the Capital
      Stock having ordinary voting power for the election of directors (or comparable
      equivalent) of such Person, or (y) to direct or cause the direction of the
      management and policies of such Person, whether by contract or otherwise.
      Control may be by ownership, contract, or otherwise. 

Agreement   
      - This
      Loan and Security Agreement, as it may hereafter be amended, supplemented,
      restated or replaced from time to time.  

Anti-Terrorism
      Laws   
      - Any
      statute, treaty, law (including common law), ordinance, regulation, rule, order,
      opinion, release, injunction, writ, decree or award of any Governmental
      Authority relating to terrorism or money laundering, including Executive Order
      No. 13224 and the USA Patriot Act. 

Asset
      Sale   
      - The
      sale, transfer, lease, license or other disposition by Borrower of any Property
      now owned, or hereafter acquired, of any nature whatsoever in any transaction
      or
      series of related transactions other than in the ordinary course of business.
      An
      Asset Sale includes, but is not limited to, a merger, consolidation, division,
      conversion, dissolution or liquidation. 

Assignment
      and Acceptance   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 10.12. 

Authorized
      Officer   
      - Any
      officer of Borrower authorized by the by-laws of the Borrower to execute and
      deliver documents on behalf of Borrower, to request Advances or execute
      Borrowing Base Certificates or Quarterly Compliance Certificates, as set forth
      in the authorization certificate delivered to Agent substantially in the form
      of
      Exhibit  A  attached hereto. 

Bank
      Affiliate   
      - Any
      bank that is controlled by a Lender. A bank shall be deemed controlled by a
      Lender if (i) such Lender, directly or indirectly, or acting through one or
      more
      other Persons, owns, controls or has power to vote twenty-five percent (25%)
      or
      more of any class of voting securities of such bank; or (ii) such Lender
      controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors or trustees
      of such bank. 

Borrowing
      Request   
      - A
      document, in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto, and made part hereof, signed
      and delivered to Agent by an Authorized Officer of Borrower. 

Borrowing
      Base   
      - As of
      the date of determination, an amount equal to the lesser of the (i) Maximum
      Revolving Credit Amount, or (ii) 80% of the market value of the
      Collateral. 

Borrowing
      Base Certificate   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 6.9(b). 

Business
      Day   
      - Any
      day that is not a Saturday or Sunday or day on which Agent or any Lender is
      required or permitted to close in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 

Capitalized
      Lease Obligations   
      - Any
      Indebtedness represented by obligations under a lease that is required to be
      capitalized for financial reporting purposes in accordance with
      GAAP. 

Capital
      Stock   
      - Any
      and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however
      designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all other ownership
      interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all warrants or
      options to purchase any of the foregoing. 

Closing   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 4.5. 

Closing
      Date   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 4.5. 

Collateral   
      - The
      Collateral pledged by Borrower pursuant to Section 3. 

Consolidation
      Amortization Expense   
      - For
      any period, the aggregate consolidated amount of amortization expenses of
      Borrower, as determined in accordance with GAAP. 

2 

Control
      Agreements   
      - The
      Securities Account Control Agreement, of even date herewith, among Resource
      Capital Investors, Inc., the Agent, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and
      Pershing LLC; and the Securities Account Control Agreement, of even date
      herewith, among Resource Capital Manager, Inc., the Agent, Credit Suisse
      Securities (USA) LLC and Pershing LLC. 

Default   
      - An
      event which with the passage of time, the giving of notice, or both would
      constitute an Event of Default. 

Default
      Rate   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5(b). 

Disqualified
      Stock   
      - Any
      Capital Stock which by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which
      it
      is convertible or for which it is exchangeable) or upon the happening of any
      event (i) matures or is mandatorily redeemable for any reason, (ii) is
      convertible or exchangeable for Indebtedness or Capital Stock that meets the
      requirements of clauses (i) and (ii), or (iii) is redeemable at the option
      of
      the holder thereof, in whole or in part in each case on or prior to the Maturity
      Date. 

Distribution   
      - (i)
      Cash dividends or other cash distributions on any now or hereafter outstanding
      Capital Stock of Borrower; (ii) the redemption, repurchase, defeasance or
      acquisition of such Capital Stock or of warrants, rights or other options to
      purchase such Capital Stock; and (iii) any loans or advances (other than
      salaries), to any shareholder(s), partner(s), or member(s) of
      Borrower. 

ERISA   
      - The
      Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as the same may be amended,
      from time to time. 

Event
      of Default   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 8.1. 

Executive
      Order No. 13224   
      - The
      Executive Order No. 13224 on Terrorist Financing, effective September 24, 2001,
      as the same has been, or shall hereafter be, renewed, extended, amended or
      replaced. 

Expenses   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 10.6. 

Federal
      Funds Rate   
      - For
      any day, the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds
      transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by federal
      funds brokers, as published for such day (or if such day is not a Business
      Day,
      for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
      or
      if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the
      average of quotations for such day on such transactions received by Agent from
      three federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by
      Agent. 

GAAP   
      -
      Generally accepted accounting principles as in effect on the Closing Date
      applied in a manner consistent with the most recent audited consolidated
      financial statements of Borrower furnished to Agent and described in Section
      6.9
      hereof. 

Government
      Acts   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(f). 

3 

Governmental
      Authority   
      - Any
      federal, state or local government or political subdivision, or any agency,
      authority, bureau, central bank, commission, department or instrumentality
      of
      either, or any court, tribunal, grand jury, or arbitration. 

Guaranty
      Agreements   
      - The
      Guaranty Agreement, of even date herewith, by Resource Capital Investor, Inc.
      for the benefit of the Agent, and the Guaranty Agreement, of even date herewith,
      by Resource Capital Manager, Inc. for the benefit of the Agent.  

Hedging
      Agreements   
      - Any
      Interest Hedging Instrument or any other interest rate protection agreement,
      foreign currency exchange agreement, commodity purchase or option agreement,
      or
      any other interest rate hedging device or swap agreement (as defined in 11
      U.S.C.   101 et. seq.). 

IRS    -
      The United States Internal Revenue Service. 

Indebtedness   
      - Of any
      Person at any date, without duplication, (i) all indebtedness of such Person
      for
      borrowed money (including with respect to the Borrower, the Obligations) or
      for
      the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than current trade
      liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business and payable in
      accordance with customary practices), (ii) any other indebtedness of such Person
      which is evidenced by a note, bond, debenture or similar instrument, (iii)
      all
      Capitalized Lease Obligations of such Person, (iv) the face amount of all
      letters of credit (including the Letters of Credit), issued for the account
      of
      such Person and all drafts drawn thereunder, (v) all obligations of other
      Persons which such Person has guaranteed, (vi) Disqualified Stock, (vii) all
      obligations of such Person under Hedging Agreements, and (viii) all
      liabilities secured by any Lien on any property owned by such Person even though
      such Person has not assumed or otherwise become liable for the payment
      thereof. 

Interest
      Hedging Instrument   
      - Any
      documentation evidencing any interest rate swap, interest  cap  or  collar  or
      any other interest rate hedging device or swap agreement (as defined in 11
      U.S.C.   101 et. seq.) between Borrower and a Lender (or any Affiliate of a
      Lender). 

Investments   
      - Any
      direct or indirect acquisition or investment by any Person, whether by means
      of,
      (i) the purchase or acquisition of Capital Stock or Securities of another
      Person, (ii) a loan, advance, or capital contribution to, or guaranty or
      assumption of Indebtedness of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other
      debt, or equity participation, or interest in another Person, or (iii) the
      purchase or other acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transaction),
      of all or substantially all of the Property or business of another Person,
      or
      assets constituting a business unit, line of business, or division of another
      Person. 

Issuing
      Bank   
      -
      Commerce Bank, N.A. 

L/C
      Fees   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(b). 

L/C
      Sublimit   
      - An
      amount not to exceed, at any time, twenty percent (20%) of the Maximum Revolving
      Credit Amount. 

4 

Letter
      of Credit   
      - Any
      letter of credit (as amended, supplemented, replaced or restated from time
      to
      time) issued by Issuing Bank, pursuant to Section 2.2 of this Agreement, for
      the
      account of Borrower.  

Letter
      of Credit Amount   
      - The
      sum of (i) the aggregate undrawn amount of all Letters of Credit outstanding
      at
      any time    plus   
      (ii) the
      aggregate amount of all drawings under Letters of Credit for which Issuing
      Bank
      has not been reimbursed at such time. 

Letter
      of Credit Documents   
      - Any
      Letter of Credit, any amendment thereto, any documents delivered in connection
      therewith, any application therefore, or any other documents (all in form and
      substance satisfactory to Issuing Bank), governing or providing for (i) the
      rights and obligations on the parties concerned or at risk, or (ii) any
      collateral security for such obligations. 

LIBOR   
      - With
      respect to any LIBOR Rate Loan for the LIBOR Interest Period applicable thereto,
      the rate of interest per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest
      1/100 of 1%) appearing on Telerate Page 3750 (or any successor page) as the
      London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars at approximately 11:00
      A.M. (London time) 2 Business Days prior to the first day of such LIBOR Interest
      Period for a term comparable to such LIBOR Interest Period; provided however,
      if
      more than one rate is specified on Telerate Page 3750, the applicable rate
      shall
      be the arithmetic mean of all such rates. If, for any reason, such rate is
      not
      available, the term London Interbank Offered Rate shall mean, with respect
      to
      any LIBOR Rate Loan for the LIBOR Interest Period applicable thereto, the rate
      of interest per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100
      of
      1%) appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR Page as the London interbank offered
      rate
      for deposits in Dollars at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) 2 Business
      Days prior to the first day of such LIBOR Interest Period for a term comparable
      to such LIBOR Interest Period; provided however, if more than one rate is
      specified on Reuters Screen LIBOR Page, the applicable rate shall be the
      arithmetic mean of all such rates. 

LIBOR
      Interest Period   
      - As to
      LIBOR Rate Loans, a period of thirty days, sixty days or ninety days, as
      selected by Borrower in connection with an Advance constituting a LIBOR Rate
      Loan, commencing on the date designated in the Borrowing Request provided by
      Borrower to Lender pursuant to Section 2.4(a) (including continuations and
      conversions thereof); provided however, (i) if any LIBOR Interest Period would
      end on a day which is not a Business Day, such LIBOR Interest Period shall
      be
      extended to the next succeeding Business Day (except that where the next
      succeeding Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, then on
      the
      next preceding Business Day), (ii) no LIBOR Interest Period shall extend beyond
      the Maturity Date, and (iii) any LIBOR Interest Period with respect to a LIBOR
      Rate Loan that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a
      day
      for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at
      the
      end of such LIBOR Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the
      relevant calendar month at the end of such LIBOR Interest Period. 

LIBOR
      Rate   
      - The
      per annum rate of interest denominated as 30-day LIBOR, 60-day LIBOR or 90-day
      LIBOR, as published in the  Money Rates  section of means the per annum rate of
      interest denominated as 30-day LIBOR, 60-day LIBOR or 90-day LIBOR, as published
      in the  Money Rates  section of    The
      Wall Street Journal   
      on the
      applicable date as such  

5 

rate
      may change from time to time, plus
      2.25%.   If
         The
      Wall Street Journal   
      ceases
      to publish or does not publish a 30-day   LIBOR,
      60-day LIBOR or 90-day LIBOR rate, then the Lender shall determine such rate
      using such other indices as the Bank shall determine.  

LIBOR
      Rate Loans   
      - The
      portions of the Advances accruing interest at LIBOR Rates. 

Lien   
      - Any
      interest of any kind or nature in Property securing an obligation owed to,
      or a
      claim of any kind or nature in Property by, a Person other than the owner of
      the
      Property, whether such interest is based on the common law, statute, regulation
      or contract, and including, but not limited to, a security interest or lien
      arising from a mortgage, encumbrance, pledge, conditional sale or trust receipt,
      a capitalized lease, consignment or bailment for security purposes, a trust,
      or
      an assignment, or as a result of the issuance of any execution or distraint
      process against Borrower. For the purposes of this Agreement, Borrower shall
      be
      deemed to be the owner of any Property which it has acquired or holds subject
      to
      a conditional sale agreement or other arrangement pursuant to which title to
      the
      Property has been retained by or vested in some other Person for security
      purposes.  

Loans   
      - The
      unpaid balance of Advances under the Revolving Credit, which may be Prime Rate
      Loans or LIBOR Rate Loans. 

Loan
      Documents   
      - This
      Agreement, the Revolving Credit Notes, Letter of Credit Documents, the Pledge
      Agreement, the Control Agreements, the Guaranty Agreements and all agreements,
      instruments and documents executed and/or delivered from time to time pursuant
      to this Agreement or in connection therewith, as amended, supplemented, replaced
      or restated from time to time. 

Majority
      Lenders   
      - At any
      time, Lenders holding Pro Rata Percentages aggregating at least fifty one
      percent (51%) of the total Pro Rata Shares. 

Material
      Adverse Effect   
      - A
      material adverse effect with respect to (a) the business, assets, properties,
      financial condition, stockholders  equity, contingent liabilities, prospects,
      material agreements or results of operations of Borrower, or (b) Borrower's
      ability to pay the Obligations in accordance with the terms hereof, or (c)
      the
      validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents
      or the rights and remedies of Agent and/or any Lender hereunder or
      thereunder. 

Maturity
      Date   
      - shall
      mean August ____, 2009. 

Maximum
      Revolving Credit Amount   
      - The
      sum of Twenty-Five Million Dollars ($25,000,000). 

Net
      Worth   
      - At any
      time, the amount by which all of Borrower s assets exceed all of Borrower s
      liabilities, as shown on Borrower s balance sheet prepared in accordance with
      GAAP. 

Obligations   
      - All
      existing and future debts, liabilities and obligations of every kind or nature
      at any time owing by Borrower to Lenders, Issuing Bank or Agent whether under
      this Agreement, any other Loan Document, or any other existing or future
      instrument,   

6 

document
      or agreement, among Borrower and Lenders,
      Issuing Bank or Agent, whether joint or several, related or unrelated,  primary
      or secondary, matured or contingent, due or to become due (including debts,
      liabilities and obligations obtained by  assignment),
      and whether principal, interest, fees, indemnification obligations hereunder
      or
      Expenses (specifically including interest accruing after the commencement of
      any
      bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding with respect to Borrower, whether
      or not a claim for such post-commencement interest is allowed), including,
      without limitation, debts, liabilities and obligations in respect of the
      Revolving Credit, Reimbursement Obligations and any extensions, modifications,
      substitutions, increases and renewals thereof; the performance of all covenants
      set forth in the Loan Documents; any amount payable by Borrower, pursuant to
      an
      Interest Hedging Instrument; the payment of all amounts advanced by Agent on
      behalf of Lenders to preserve, protect and enforce rights hereunder and in
      the
      Collateral; and all Expenses incurred by Agent and Lenders. Without limiting
      the
      generality of the foregoing, Obligations shall include any other debts,
      liabilities or obligations owing to Agent in connection with any lock box,
      cash
      management, or other services (including electronic funds transfers or automated
      clearing house transactions) provided by Agent to
      Borrower.   

Overadvance   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a)(i). 

PBGC   
      - The
      Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. 

Permitted
      Investments   
      - (a)
      Investments existing on the Closing Date that are disclosed in Borrower s
      financial statements; (b) (i) obligations issued or guaranteed by the United
      States of America or any agency thereof, (ii) commercial paper with maturities
      of not more than 180 days and a published rating of not less than A-1 or P-1
      (or
      the equivalent rating) by a nationally recognized investment rating agency,
      (iii) certificates of time deposit and bankers  acceptances having maturities of
      not more than 180 days and repurchase agreements backed by United States
      government securities of a commercial bank if (A) such bank has a combined
      capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000, or (B) its debt obligations,
      or
      those of a holding company of which it is a Subsidiary, are rated not less
      than
      A (or the equivalent rating) by a nationally recognized investment rating
      agency, and (iv) U.S. money market funds that invest solely in obligations
      issued or guaranteed by the United States of America or an agency thereof;
      (c)
      loans to employees not to exceed $25,000 in the aggregate outstanding at any
      time; (d) Securities purchased by Borrower which are to be packaged into a
      collateralized debt obligation, which is then sold to third party investors,
      and
      (e) other Investments made in the ordinary course of Borrower's business in
      accordance with the description of Borrower's business as disclosed in
      Borrower's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Permitted
      Liens   
      - (a)
      Liens securing taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies or the
      claims or demands of materialmen, mechanics, carriers, warehousemen, and other
      like persons not yet due; (b) Liens incurred or deposits made in the ordinary
      course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment
      insurance, social security and other like laws; (c) Liens related to Permitted
      Investments; and (d) Liens existing on the Closing Date and shown on Schedule
      1.1(b) attached hereto and made part hereof. 

Person   
        - An
        individual, partnership, corporation, trust, unincorporated association or
        organization, joint venture, limited liability company or partnership, or
        any
        other entity. 

7 

Pledge
      Agreements   
      - The
      Securities Account Pledge Agreement, of even date herewith, between the Borrower
      and the Agent; the Securities Account Pledge Agreement, of even date herewith,
      between Resource Capital Investor, Inc. and the Agent; and the Securities
      Account Pledge Agreement, of even date herewith, between Resource Capital
      Manager, Inc. and the Agent. 

Prime
      Rate Loans   
      - The
      portions of the Advances accruing interest at the Prime Rate. 

Prime
      Rate   
      - means
      the per annum rate of interest designated as the  Prime Rate,  as published in
      the  Money Rates  section of    The
      Wall Street Journal   
      on the
      applicable date (or the highest  Prime Rate  if more than one is published) as
      such rate may change from time to time. If    The
      Wall Street Journal   
      ceases
      to be published or goes on strike or is otherwise not published, Lenders may
      use
      a similar published prime or base rate. 

Property   
      - Any
      interest in any kind of property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed,
      or
      tangible or intangible.  

Pro
      Rata Percentage   
      - As to
      each Lender, the pro rata percentage set forth opposite each Lender s name on
      Schedule A hereto. 

Pro
      Rata Share   
      - As to
      any Lender, at any time, such Lender s Pro Rata Percentage of the outstanding
      principal balance of the Maximum Revolving Credit Amount. 

Quarterly
      Compliance Certificate   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 6.10. 

Regulation
      D   
      -
      Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, comprising
      Part 204 of Title 12, Code of Federal Regulations, as amended, and any successor
      thereto. 

Reimbursement
      Obligations   
      -
      Collectively, Borrower's reimbursement obligation for any and all draws under
      Letters of Credit together with the obligation to pay L/C Fees. 

Revolving
      Credit   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a). 

Revolving
      Credit Loans   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a). 

Revolving
      Credit Notes   
      - Shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b). 

Securities   
      -
      Collectively, any obligation of an issuer or a share, participation, or other
      interest in an issuer, or in property or an enterprise of an issuer, which
      is,
      or is of a type, dealt in or traded on, financial markets, or which is
      recognized in any area in which it is issued or dealt in, as a medium for
      investment. 

Securities
        Act   
        -
        Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 

Settlement
        Date   
        - Shall
        have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(b)(ii). 

8 

Senior Debt   
      - All
      Indebtedness of Borrower, other than non-recourse debt and Subordinated
      Debt. 

Subordinated
      Debt   
      -
      Indebtedness of Borrower, subject to payment terms and subordination provisions
      acceptable to Agent in its sole discretion.  

Subsidiary   
      - With
      respect to any Person at any time, (i) any corporation more than fifty percent
      (50%) of whose voting stock is legally and beneficially owned directly or
      indirectly by such Person or owned by a corporation more than fifty percent
      (50%) of whose voting stock is legally and beneficially owned directly or
      indirectly by such Person (ii) any trust of which a majority of the beneficial
      interest is at such time owned directly or indirectly, beneficially or of
      record, by such Person or one or more Subsidiaries of such Person; and (iii)
      any
      partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity of which
      ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the
      board of directors or other Persons performing similar functions are at such
      time owned directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by, or which
      is
      otherwise controlled directly, indirectly or through one or more intermediaries
      by, such Person or one or more Subsidiaries of such Person.  

1.2      Accounting
      Principles   :
      Where
      the character or amount of any asset or liability or item of income or expense
      is required to be determined or any consolidation or other accounting
      computation is required to be made for the purposes of this Agreement, this
      shall be done in accordance with GAAP, to the extent applicable, except as
      otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. 

1.3      Construction   :
      No
      doctrine of construction of ambiguities in agreements or instruments against
      the
      interests of the party controlling the drafting shall apply to any Loan
      Documents. 

SECTION
      2.     THE
      LOANS  

2.1      Revolving
      Credit   . 

a.     i)     Subject
      to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each Lender hereby severally
      establishes for the benefit of Borrower a revolving credit facility
      (collectively, the  Revolving Credit ), which shall include Advances extended by
      Lenders to or for the benefit of Borrower from time to time hereunder as well
      as
      the Letter of Credit Amount on Letters of Credit issued for the account of
      Borrower ( Revolving Credit Loans ). The aggregate principal amount of all
      unpaid Advances shall not, at any time, exceed the Borrowing Base. Subject
      to
      such limitation, the outstanding balance of Advances may fluctuate from time
      to
      time, to be reduced by repayments made by Borrower, to be increased by future
      Advances which may be made by Lenders and, subject to the provisions of Section
      8 hereof, shall be due and payable on the Revolving Credit Maturity Date.

If
      the
      aggregate principal amount of all unpaid Advances at any time exceeds the
      Borrowing Base (such excess is referenced to as  Overadvance ), Borrower shall,
      within five (5) Business Days after notice from Agent, (1) repay the Overadvance
      in full or (2) pledge to Lenders sufficient Collateral so that the
      aggregate principal amount of all unpaid Advances does not exceed the Borrowing
      Base. 

9 

(ii)     Subject
      to the terms of this Agreement, each Lender severally agrees to lend to Borrower
      an amount equal to such Lender s Pro Rata Percentage of the Advance requested by
      Borrower. The outstanding balance of Revolving Credit Loans of each Lender
      shall
      not exceed such Lender s respective Pro Rata Share. 

b.     At
      Closing, Borrower shall execute and deliver a promissory note to each Lender
      for
      the total principal amount of such Lender s initial Pro Rata Share
      (collectively, as may be amended, supplemented, replaced or restated from time
      to time, the  Revolving Credit Notes ). Each Revolving Credit Note shall
      evidence Borrower's absolute unconditional obligation to repay such Lender
      for
      all outstanding Advances owed to such Lender, with interest as herein and
      therein provided. Each and every Advance under the Revolving Credit shall be
      deemed evidenced by the Revolving Credit Notes, which are deemed incorporated
      herein by reference and made a part hereof.  

c.     The
      term
      of the Revolving Credit shall expire on the Maturity Date. On such date, unless
      having been sooner accelerated by Agent, all Obligations shall be due and
      payable in full, and after such date no further Advances shall be available
      from
      Lenders. 

2.2      Letters
      of Credit   : 

a.     As
      a part
      of the Revolving Credit and subject to its terms and conditions (including,
      without limitation, the Borrowing Base), Issuing Bank shall, on behalf of and
      for the benefit of all Lenders, make available the Letters of Credit. The Letter
      of Credit Amount shall not exceed, in the aggregate at any time, the L/C
      Sublimit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Letters of Credit shall be in
      form
      and substance reasonably satisfactory to Issuing Bank and Agent. No Letter
      of
      Credit shall have an expiry date later than the Maturity Date. Borrower shall
      execute and deliver to Issuing Bank all Letter of Credit Documents required
      by
      Issuing Bank for such purpose. Each Letter of Credit shall comply with the
      Letter of Credit Documents. Each Letter of Credit issued from time to time
      under
      the Revolving Credit which remains undrawn and the amounts of draws on Letters
      of Credit prior to payment as hereinafter set forth shall reduce, dollar for
      dollar, the amount available to be borrowed by Borrower under the Revolving
      Credit. 

b.     Immediately
      upon the issuance of any Letter of Credit, Issuing Bank is deemed to have
      granted to each other Lender, and each other Lender is hereby deemed to have
      acquired, an undivided participating interest (without recourse or warranty),
      in
      accordance with each such other Lender s respective Pro Rata Percentage, in all
      of Issuing Bank s rights and liabilities with respect to such Letter of Credit.
      Each Lender shall be absolutely and unconditionally obligated without deduction
      or setoff of any kind, to Issuing Bank, according to its Pro Rata Percentage,
      to
      reimburse Issuing Bank on demand for any amount paid pursuant to any draws
      made
      at any time (including, without limitation, following the commencement of any
       bankruptcy,
      reorganization, receivership, liquidation or dissolution proceeding with respect
      to Borrower) under any Letter of Credit.   

c.     Issuing
        Bank shall be immediately, absolutely, and unconditionally reimbursed, without
        offset or deduction of any kind, by Borrower for any draws made under a Letter
        of Credit. Such reimbursement shall be made, at the sole option of Agent,
        by
        either a cash payment by Borrower, by Lenders automatically making or having
        deemed made (without  

10 

further
      request or approval of Borrower or Lenders), a cash Advance under the Revolving
      Credit or pursuant to repayment terms established by Agent (in its sole
      discretion) upon each draw. All cash Advances made by Agent which constitute
      a
      reimbursement to Issuing Bank for a draw under a Letter of Credit shall be
      repaid to Agent by Lenders, without deduction or setoff of any kind, in
      accordance with Section 2.3(b)(iii). All of Borrower's Reimbursement Obligations
      hereunder with respect to Letters of Credit shall apply unconditionally and
      absolutely to Letters of Credit issued hereunder on behalf of
      Borrower. 

d.     The
      obligation of Borrower to reimburse Issuing Bank for drawings made (or for
      cash
      Advances made to cover drawings made) under the Letters of Credit shall be
      unconditional and irrevocable and shall be paid strictly in accordance with
      the
      terms of this Agreement under all circumstances including, without limitation,
      the following circumstances: 

(i)     any
      lack
      of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit; 

(ii)     the
      existence of any claim, setoff, defense or other right that Borrower or any
      other Person may have at any time against a beneficiary or any transferee of
      any
      Letter of Credit (or any persons or entities for whom any such beneficiary
      or
      transferee may be acting), Agent, Issuing Bank, any Lender or any other Person,
      whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated herein
      or any unrelated transaction; 

(iii)     any
      draft, demand, certificate or any other document presented under any Letter
      of
      Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect
      or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; 

(iv)     payment
      by Issuing Bank under any Letter of Credit against presentation of a demand,
      draft or certificate or other document that does not comply with the terms
      of
      such Letter of Credit, unless Issuing Bank shall have acted with willful
      misconduct or gross negligence in issuing such payment; 

(v)     any
      other
      circumstances or happening whatsoever that is similar to any of the foregoing;
      or 

(vi)     the
      fact
      that a Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be
      continuing. 

Notwithstanding
      anything in this Agreement to the contrary, Borrower will not be liable for
      payment or performance with respect to a Letter of Credit that results from
      the
      gross negligence or willful misconduct of Issuing Bank, except (i) where
      Borrower actually recovers the proceeds for itself or Issuing Bank of any such
      payment made by Issuing Bank; or (ii) in cases where Agent makes payment to
      the
      named beneficiary of a Letter of Credit. 

e.     If
        by
        reason of (i) any change after the Closing Date in applicable law, regulation,
        rule, decree or regulatory requirement or any change in the interpretation
        or
        application by any judicial or regulatory authority of any law, regulation,
        rule, decree or regulatory requirement or (ii) compliance by Issuing Bank
        or
        Lenders with any direction, reasonable request or requirement (whether or
        not
        having the force of law) of any governmental or monetary authority including,
        without limitation, Regulation D:  

11 

A.     Issuing
      Bank or Lenders shall be subject to any tax or other levy or charge of any
      nature or to any variation thereof (except for changes in the rate of any tax
      on
      the net income of Issuing Bank or Lenders or its applicable lending office)
      or
      to any penalty with respect to the maintenance or fulfillment of its obligations
      under this Section 2.2, whether directly or by such being imposed on or suffered
      by Issuing Bank or Lenders; or 

B.     any
      reserve, deposit or similar requirement is or shall be applicable, imposed
      or
      modified in respect of any Letter of Credit issued by Issuing Bank; 

and
      the
      result of the foregoing is to directly or indirectly increase the cost to
      Issuing Bank or any Lender of issuing, creating, making or maintaining any
      Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount receivable in respect thereof by
      Issuing Bank or any Lender, then and in any such case, Issuing Bank shall,
      after
      the additional cost is incurred or the amount received is reduced, notify
      Borrower and Borrower shall pay on demand such amounts as may be necessary
      to
      compensate Issuing Bank or any Lender for such additional cost or reduced
      receipt, together with interest on such amount from the date demanded until
      payment in full thereof at a rate per annum equal at all times to the applicable
      interest rate under the Revolving Credit. A certificate signed by an officer
      of
      Issuing Bank as to the amount of such increased cost or reduced receipt showing
      in reasonable detail the basis for the calculation thereof, submitted to
      Borrower by Issuing Bank shall, except for manifest error and absent written
      notice from Borrower to Issuing Bank within ten (10) days after receipt of
      notice, be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes. 

f.     i)     In
      addition to amounts payable as elsewhere provided in this Section 2.2, without
      duplication, Borrower hereby agrees to protect, indemnify, pay and save Agent,
      Issuing Bank and each Lender harmless from and against any and all claims,
      demands, liabilities, damages, losses, costs, charges and expenses (including
      reasonable attorneys' fees) which Agent, Issuing Bank and each Lender may incur
      or be subject to as a consequence, direct or indirect, of (A) the issuance
      of
      the Letters of Credit or (b) the failure of Issuing Bank to honor a drawing
      under any Letter of Credit as a result of any such act or omission, whether
      rightful or wrongful, of any present or future    de
      jure   
      or
   de
      facto   
      government or Governmental Authority (all such acts or omissions herein called
       Government Acts ) in each case except for claims, demands, liabilities,
      damages, losses, costs, charges and expenses arising solely from acts or conduct
      of Issuing Bank constituting gross negligence or willful
      misconduct. 

(ii)     As
      between Borrower and Issuing Bank, Borrower assumes all risks of the acts and
      omissions of or misuse of the Letters of Credit issued by Issuing Bank by the
      respective beneficiaries of such Letters of Credit, except in the case of gross
      negligence or willful misconduct by Issuing Bank. In furtherance and not in
      limitation of the foregoing, Issuing Bank shall not be responsible: (A) for
      the
      form, validity, sufficiency, accuracy, genuineness or legal effects of any
      document submitted by any party in connection with the application for and
      issuance of such Letters of Credit, even if it should in fact prove to be in
      any
      or all respects invalid, insufficient, inaccurate, fraudulent or forged; (B)
      for
      the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or
      purporting to transfer or assign any such Letter of Credit or the rights or
      benefits there under or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, that may prove
      to
      be invalid or ineffective for any reason; (C) for failure of the beneficiary
      of
      any such Letter of Credit to comply fully with conditions required in order
      to
      draw upon such Letter of Credit; (D) for errors, omissions, interruptions or
      delays in transmission or delivery of  

12 

any
      messages, by mail, cable, telegraph, telex or
      otherwise, whether or not they are in cipher; (E) for errors in interpretation
      of technical terms; (F) for any loss or delay in the transmission of any
      document or required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit
      or
      of the proceeds thereof, unless caused by Lender's gross negligence or willful
      misconduct; (G) for the misapplication by the beneficiary of any such Letter
      of
      Credit of the proceeds of any drawing under such Letter of Credit; and (H)
      for
      any consequences arising from causes beyond the control of Issuing Bank,
      including, without limitation, any Government Acts. None of the above shall
      affect, impair or prevent the vesting of any of Issuing Bank's rights or powers
      hereunder. 

(iii)     In
      furtherance and extension and not in limitation of the specific provisions
      hereinabove set forth, any action taken or omitted by Issuing Bank in connection
      with the Letters of Credit issued by it or the related certificates, if taken
      or
      omitted in good faith, shall not create any liability on the part of Issuing
      Bank to Borrower, unless such action or omission constitutes gross negligence
      or
      willful misconduct. 

2.3      Advances,
      Conversions, Renewals and Payments   :    

a.     Except
      to
      the extent otherwise set forth in this Agreement, all payments of principal
      and
      of interest on the Revolving Credit, Reimbursement Obligations, the L/C Fees,
      Expenses and all other fees, charges and any other Obligations of Borrower
      hereunder, shall be made to Agent at its main New Jersey banking office, 1701
      Route 70 East, Cherry Hill, New Jersey 08034, in United States dollars, in
      immediately available funds. Alternatively, Agent, on behalf of all Lenders,
      shall, if Borrower has not made any payment on the due date of such payment,
      have the unconditional right and discretion (and Borrower hereby authorizes
      Agent) to make a cash Advance under the Revolving Credit to pay, and/or to
      charge Borrower's operating account with Agent or any Lender for, all of
      Borrower's Obligations as they become due from time to time under this Agreement
      including without limitation, interest, principal, fees and reimbursement of
      Expenses. Any payments received prior to 2:00 p.m. Eastern time on any Business
      Day shall be deemed received on such Business Day. Any payments (including
      any
      payment in full of the Obligations), received after 2:00 p.m. Eastern time
      on
      any Business Day shall be deemed received on the immediately following Business
      Day. 

b.     Cash
      Advances which may be made by Lenders from time to time under the Revolving
      Credit shall be made available for the use and benefit of Borrower by crediting
      such proceeds to Borrower's operating account with Agent as designated in the
      Borrowing Request. 

(i)     All
      cash
      Advances requested by Borrower under the Revolving Credit, must be in the
      minimum amount of One Hundred Thousand ($100,000) and integral  multiples
      of One Hundred Thousand ($100,000) in excess thereof. All cash Advances that
      are
      Prime Rate Loans under the Revolving Credit must be requested by 11:00 A.M.,
      Eastern time, on the date such cash Advance is to be made. All requests for
      a
      LIBOR Rate Loan are to be requested by 11:00 a.m. Eastern time, three (3)
      Business Days in advance of the requested LIBOR Rate Loan. Notwithstanding
      anything to the contrary set forth herein, there shall not be more than four
      (4)
      LIBOR Rate Loans outstanding at any one time. Borrower shall provide a Borrowing
      Base Certificate to Agent upon each request for an Advance. All requests for
      a
      cash Advance may be made either by telephone or in writing, provided that,
      all
      telephonic requests   

13 

are
    to be confirmed by Borrower in writing on the same day pursuant to a Borrowing
    Request (and accompanied by a signed Borrowing Base Certificate), which shall
    set forth (x) the amount of the requested Advance, (y) the proposed date of
    borrowing, and (z) if a LIBOR Rate Loan, the requested LIBOR Interest Period,
    and further provided, that such written confirmation may be sent by facsimile
    transmission. No Lender shall be obligated, for any reason whatsoever, to
    advance or reimburse Agent for the share of any other Lender.   

(ii)     A.     Between
      each Settlement Date, (defined below) Agent, in its capacity as a Lender, shall
      have the discretion (without any duty or obligation regardless of any prior
      practice or procedures) to make all cash Advances for the account and on behalf
      of each Lender in accordance with each Lender s Pro Rata Percentage.
      Periodically but not less frequently than once every week on the same day of
      each week, unless such day is not a Business Day, in which event such
      determination shall be made the next Business Day ( Settlement Date ), Agent
      shall make a determination of the appropriate dollar amount of each Lender s
      Revolving Credit Loans based upon each such Lender s Pro Rata Percentage of all
      then outstanding Revolving Credit Loans, which amounts shall be calculated
      as of
      the close of the Business Day immediately preceding each respective Settlement
      Date. Amounts of principal paid to Agent by Borrower from time to time, between
      Settlement Dates, shall be applied to the outstanding balance of Revolving
      Credit Loans made by Agent, as a Lender pursuant hereto, with the outstanding
      balance of Revolving Credit Loans made by each other Lender to be adjusted
      on
      the next Settlement Date. Interest shall accrue and each Lender shall be
      entitled to receive interest at the applicable rate only on the actual
      outstanding dollar amount of its respective outstanding Revolving Credit Loans
      without regard to a prospective settlement. On each Settlement Date, Agent
      shall
      then issue to each Lender a settlement schedule containing information with
      respect to the status of the Revolving Credit Loans and the relevant net
      positions of Lenders and the outstanding balances of their respective Revolving
      Credit Loans as of the close of the Business Day preceding such Settlement
      Date.
      Each settlement schedule shall show the net amount then owing by each Lender
      to
      Agent or by Agent to each such Lender based upon the aggregate cash Advances
      made and payments received since the most recent Settlement Date and settlement
      among Lenders and Agent shall be made in accordance with the direction of Agent
      no later than 11:00 A.M. Eastern time, on each Settlement Date. All remittances
      at any time among Lenders and Agent under this Agreement shall be made in
      immediately available funds by federal funds wire transfer. To the extent Agent
      is not reimbursed by any Lender on a Settlement Date in accordance with Agent s
      direction, Borrower shall immediately repay Agent on demand the amount of any
      reimbursement not so made by any Lender.  

B.     Each
      Lender is absolutely and unconditionally obligated without setoff or deduction
      of any kind, to remit to Agent on the Settlement Date any amount  showing
      to be owing to Agent by such Lender on the settlement schedule for such date.
      Agent shall also be entitled to recover any and all actual losses and damages
      (including without limitation, reasonable attorneys  fees) from any party
      failing to remit payment on the Settlement Date in accordance with this
      Agreement. Agent may set off the obligations of such party under this paragraph
      against any distributions or payments of the Obligations, which such party
      would
      otherwise make available at any time.  

14 

(iii) A.  In lie    u
        of the
        procedure set forth in the preceding subparagraph (ii), Agent may provide
        Lenders with notice that Borrower has requested a cash Advance, on the same
        Business Day as such request, and request each Lender to provide Agent with
        such
        Lender s Pro Rata Percentage of such requested cash Advance prior to Agent s
        making such cash Advance. Upon receipt of such notice from Agent prior to
        12:00
        p.m., Eastern time, each Lender shall remit to Agent its respective Pro Rata
        Percentage of such requested cash Advance, prior to 1:00 P.M. Eastern time,
        on
        the Business Day Agent is scheduled to make such cash Advance in accordance
        with
        Section 2.3(b) hereof. Neither Agent nor any other Lender shall be obligated,
        for any reason whatsoever, to remit or advance the share of any other Lender.
        Agent shall not be required to make the full amount of the requested cash
        Advance unless and until it receives funds representing each other Lender s Pro
        Rata Percentage of such requested cash Advance, but Agent shall advance to
        Borrower that portion of the requested cash Advance equal to the Pro Rata
        Percentages of such requested cash Advance which it has received from Lenders.

B.     If
      Agent
      does not receive each other Lender s Pro Rata Percentage of such requested cash
      Advance, and Agent elects, in its sole discretion, to make the requested cash
      Advance on behalf of Lenders or any of them, Agent shall be entitled to recover
      each Lender s Pro Rata Percentage of each cash Advance together with interest at
      a per annum rate equal to the Federal Funds Rate during the period commencing
      on
      the date such cash Advance is made and ending on (but excluding) the date Agent
      recovers such amount. Each Lender is absolutely and unconditionally obligated,
      without deduction or setoff of any kind, to forward to Agent its Pro Rata
      Percentage of each cash Advance made pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
      To
      the extent Agent is not reimbursed by such Lender, Borrower shall repay Agent
      immediately on demand, such amount. Agent shall also be entitled to recover
      any
      and all actual losses and damages (including, without limitation, reasonable
      attorneys  fees) from any Lender failing to so advance upon demand of Agent.
      Agent may set off the obligations of a Lender under this paragraph against
      any
      distributions or payments of the Obligations, which Agent would otherwise make
      available to such Lender at any time.  

(iv)     To
      the
      extent and during the time period in which any Lender fails to provide or delays
      providing its respective payment to Agent pursuant to clause (ii) or (iii)
      above, such Lender s percentage of all payments of the Obligations (but not its
      Pro Rata Percentage of future Advances required to be funded by such Lender)
      shall decrease to reflect the actual percentage which its actual outstanding
      Loans bears to the total outstanding Loans of all Lenders. During the time
      period in which any Lender fails to provide or delays providing its respective
      payment to Agent pursuant to clause (ii) or (iii) above, such Lender shall
      not
      be entitled to give instructions to Agent or to approve, disapprove, consent
      to
      or vote on any matters relating to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
      All amendments, waivers and other modifications of this Agreement and the Loan
      Documents may be made without regard to such  Lender
      and, for purposes of the definition of Majority Lenders, such Lender shall
      be
      deemed not to be a Lender.  

2.4      Interest   : 

a.     The
        unpaid principal balance of Advances under the Revolving Credit shall bear
        interest, at Borrower's option, at the Prime Rate plus 1% or the LIBOR Rate,
        as
        indicated in the Borrowing Request. If no LIBOR Interest Period is designated
        in
        any Borrowing Request, the LIBOR Interest Period shall be deemed to be a
        one
        month period.   

15 

b.     Changes
      in the interest rate applicable to Prime Rate Loans shall become effective
      on
      the same day that there is a change in the Prime Rate.  

c.     Interest
      on Prime Rate Loans shall be payable monthly, in arrears, on the first day
      of
      the calendar month next succeeding the Closing Date, on the first day of each
      calendar month thereafter, and on the Maturity Date. Interest on LIBOR Rate
      Loans shall be payable, in arrears, on the last day of each LIBOR Interest
      Period, and on the Maturity Date. 

d.     If
      prior
      to the first day of any LIBOR Interest Period, (i) any Lender shall have
      determined in good faith (which determination shall be conclusive and binding
      upon Borrower), that by reason of circumstances affecting the relevant market,
      adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the LIBOR Rate
      for
      such LIBOR Interest Period, or (ii) dollar deposits in the principal amounts
      of
      the LIBOR Rate Loans to which such LIBOR Interest Period is to be applicable,
      are not generally available in the London Interbank market, such Lender shall
      give facsimile or telephonic notice thereof to Agent and Borrower, as soon
      as
      practicable thereafter, and will also give prompt written notice to Borrower
      when such conditions no longer exist. If such notice is given (A) any LIBOR
      Rate
      Loans requested to be made on the first day of such LIBOR Interest Period shall
      be made as Prime Rate Loans, (B) any Loans that were to have been converted
      on
      the first day of such LIBOR Interest Period to, or continued as, LIBOR Rate
      Loans shall be converted to, or continued as, Prime Rate Loans, and (C) each
      outstanding LIBOR Rate Loan shall be converted on the last day of the
      then-current LIBOR Interest Period thereof, to Prime Rate Loans. Until such
      notice has been withdrawn by such Lender, no further LIBOR Rate Loans shall
      be
      made or continued as such, nor shall Borrower have the right to convert Prime
      Rate Loans to LIBOR Rate Loans. 

e.     Notwithstanding
      any other provision herein, if the adoption of or any change in any law, treaty,
      rule or regulation or final, non-appealable determination of an arbitrator
      or a
      court or other Governmental Authority or in the interpretation or application
      thereof occurring after the Closing Date shall make it unlawful for any Lender
      to make or maintain LIBOR Rate Loans as contemplated by this Agreement, (a)
      such
      Lender shall promptly give written notice of such circumstances to Agent and
      Borrower (which notice shall be withdrawn whenever such circumstances no longer
      exist), (b) the commitment of Lender hereunder to make LIBOR Rate Loans,
      continue LIBOR Rate Loans as such and convert a Prime Rate Loan to LIBOR Rate
      Loans shall forthwith be canceled and, until such time as it shall no longer
      be
      unlawful for Lender to make or maintain LIBOR Rate Loans, Lender shall then
      have
      a commitment only to make a Prime Rate Loan when a LIBOR Rate Loan is requested
      and (c) Lender's Loans then outstanding as LIBOR Rate Loans, if any, shall
      be
      converted automatically  to
      Prime
      Rate Loans on the respective last days of the then current LIBOR Interest
      Periods with respect to such Loans or within such earlier period as required
      by
      law. If any such conversion of a LIBOR Rate Loan occurs on a day which is not
      the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto, Borrower
      shall pay to Lender such amounts, if any, as may be required pursuant to Section
      2.9(b).  

2.5      Additional
      Interest Provisions   : 

a.     Interest
      on the Loans shall be calculated on the basis of a year of three hundred sixty
      (360) days but charged for the actual number of days elapsed. 

16 

b.     After
      the
      occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default hereunder, the
      per
      annum effective rates of interest on all outstanding principal under the Loans,
      shall be increased by three hundred (300) basis points ( Default Rate ).
      Borrower agrees that the Default Rate payable to Lenders is a reasonable
      estimate of Lenders' damages and is not a penalty. 

c.     All
      contractual rates of interest chargeable on outstanding principal under the
      Loans shall, as permitted by law, continue to accrue and be paid even after
      Default, an Event of Default, maturity, acceleration, judgment, bankruptcy,
      insolvency proceedings of any kind or the happening of any event or occurrence
      similar or dissimilar. 

d.     In
      no
      event whatsoever shall the aggregate of all amounts deemed interest hereunder
      and charged or collected pursuant to the terms of this Agreement exceed the
      highest rate permissible under any law which a court of competent jurisdiction
      shall, in a final determination, deem applicable hereto. In the event that
      such
      court determines any Lender has charged or received interest hereunder in excess
      of the highest applicable rate, Lenders shall apply, in its sole discretion,
      and
      set off such excess interest received by Lenders against other Obligations
      due
      or to become due and such rate shall automatically be reduced to the maximum
      rate permitted by such law. 

2.6      Fees   : 

a.     There
      shall be an initial fee for the Loan of $250,000, which shall be paid by the
      Borrower to the Issuing Bank simultaneously with the execution of this
      Agreement.  

b.     Borrower
      shall pay to Agent, for the ratable benefit of each Lender in accordance with
      its respective Pro Rata Percentage, per annum letter of credit fees equal to
      the
      face amount of each Letter of Credit multiplied by 225 basis points, payable
      in
      equal quarterly installments in arrears, on the first day of each calendar
      quarter following the issuance of a Letter of Credit. On the date of issuance
      of
      a Letter of Credit, Borrower shall pay to Issuing Bank, for the sole account
      of
      Issuing Bank, a fronting fee equal to the greater of (i) twelve (12) basis
      points multiplied by the face amount of each Letter of Credit and (ii) Five
      Hundred Dollars ($500), together with all of Issuing Bank s standard charges
      (including without limitation all cable and wire transfer charges) for the
      administration of each such Letter of Credit. All such fees are collectively,
      the  L/C Fees . 

      c.     Borrower
      shall unconditionally pay to Agent, for the ratable benefit of each Lender
      in
      accordance with its respective Pro Rata Percentage, a late charge equal to
      five
      percent (5%) of any and all payments of principal or interest on the Loans
      that
      are not paid within fifteen (15) days of the due date. Such late charge shall
      be
      due and payable regardless of whether Agent has accelerated the Obligations.
      Borrower agrees that any late fee payable to Lenders is a reasonable estimate
      of
      Lenders  damages and is not a penalty. 

d.     All
      fees
      provided for in this Section 2.6 shall be based on a three hundred sixty (360)
      day year and charged for the actual number of days elapsed.  

e.     All
      fees
      shall be deemed fully earned when paid, shall be non-refundable and shall not
      be
      subject to refund or rebate. 

17 

2.7      Prepayments   :
      Borrower may prepay the Revolving Credit in whole or in part at any time or
      from
      time to time, without penalty or premium, other than any breakage cost under
      Section 2.9(b) of this Agreement. Any prepayment shall be accompanied by all
      accrued and unpaid interest and breakage cost, if any.    

2.8      Use
      of
      Proceeds   :
      The
      extensions of credit under and proceeds of the Revolving Credit shall be used
      for working capital purposes, including interim funding of Permitted
      Investments.    

2.9      Indemnity/Loss
      of Margin   : 

a.     In
      the
      event that any present or future law, rule, regulation, treaty or official
      directive or the interpretation or application thereof by any central bank,
      monetary authority or governmental authority, or the compliance with any
      guideline or request of any central bank, monetary authority or governmental
      authority (whether or not having the force of law) imposes, modifies or deems
      applicable any deposit insurance, reserve, special deposit, or other similar
      requirement with respect to deposits in or for the account of, or loans or
      advances or commitment to make loans or advances by, or letters of credit issued
      or commitment to issue letters of credit by a Lender and the result of any
      of
      the foregoing is to increase the costs of a Lender, reduce the income receivable
      by or return on equity of such Lender or impose any expense upon such Lender
      with respect to any advances or extensions of credit or commitments to make
      advances or extensions of credit under this Agreement, such Lender shall so
      notify Agent in writing. Within fifteen (15) days notice from Agent, Borrower
      agrees to pay such Lender the amount of such increase in cost, reduction in
      income, reduced return on equity or capital, or additional expense after
      presentation by such Lender of a statement concerning such increase in cost,
      reduction in income, reduced return on equity or capital, or additional expense.
      Such statement shall set forth a brief explanation of the amount and such
      Lender s calculation of the amount (in determining such amount such Lender may
      use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods), which statement shall
      be
      conclusively deemed correct absent manifest error.  

b.     Borrower
      shall pay to each Lender, on the date of prepayment of a LIBOR Rate Loan, any
      loss or expense which each Lender may sustain or incur (other than through
      such
      Lender's gross negligence or willful misconduct) as a consequence of (a) default
      by Borrower in  making
      a
      borrowing of, conversion into, or extension of, LIBOR Rate Loans after Borrower
      has given a notice requesting the same in accordance with the provisions of
      this
      Agreement, and (b) the making of a prepayment of LIBOR Rate Loans on a day
      which
      is not the last day of a LIBOR Interest Period with respect thereto. With
      respect to LIBOR Rate Loans, such indemnification shall equal the excess, if
      any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the amount so
      prepaid, or not so borrowed, converted, or extended, for the period from the
      date of such prepayment, or of such failure to borrow, convert, or extend to
      the
      last day of the applicable LIBOR Interest Period (or in the case of a failure
      to
      borrow, convert, or extend, the LIBOR Interest Period that would have commenced
      on the date of such failure) in each case at the applicable rate of interest
      for
      such LIBOR Rate Loans provided for herein over (ii) the amount of interest
      (as
      reasonably determined by Agent) which would have accrued to such Lender on
      such
      amount by placing such amount on deposit for a comparable period with leading
      banks in the   

18 

interbank Eurodollar market. This covenant shall survive
    the termination
    of this Agreement, and the payment of the Obligations.  

2.10      Capital
      Adequacy   :
      If any
      present or future law, governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline,
      directive or similar requirement (whether or not having the force of law)
      imposes, modifies, or deems applicable any capital adequacy, capital maintenance
      or similar requirement which affects the manner in which any Lender allocates
      capital resources to its commitments (including any commitments hereunder),
      and
      as a result thereof, in the reasonable opinion of such Lender, the rate of
      return on such Lender s capital with regard to the Loans and/or its obligations
      hereunder is reduced to a level below that which such Lender could have achieved
      but for such circumstances taking into account such Lender s policies regarding
      capital adequacy, then in such case, and within thirty (30) days of notice
      from
      Agent to Borrower, from time to time, Borrower shall pay such Lender such
      additional amount or amounts as shall compensate such Lender for such reduction
      in its rate of return. Such notice shall contain the statement of such Lender
      with regard to any such amount or amounts, which shall, in the absence of
      manifest error, be binding upon Borrower. In determining such amount, such
      Lender may use any reasonable method of averaging and attribution that it deems
      applicable. 

2.11      Termination
      of Loans   :
      This
      Agreement shall terminate, except for those provisions that expressly survive
      the terms hereof, on the later of : (1) repayment to Agent, Issuing Bank, and
      Lenders of all Obligations hereunder, or (2) the Maturity Date. 

SECTION
      3.     COLLATERAL  

3.1      Description   :
      As
      security for the payment of the Obligations, and satisfaction by Borrower of
      all
      covenants and undertakings contained in this Agreement and the other Loan
      Documents, (i) the Borrower shall pledge to Issuing Bank, on behalf of itself
      and the Lenders, and grant a lien on and security interest in 408,290 shares
      of
      common stock of The Bancorp, Inc. (the  Bancorp Stock  (ii) the Borrower shall
      cause its affiliates, Resource Capital Investor, Inc. and Resource Capital
      Manager, Inc. to pledge to Issuing Bank, on behalf of itself and the Lenders,
      and grant a lien on and security interest in 1,200,000 shares of common stock
      (1,100,000 shares and 100,000 shares, respectively) of Resource Capital Corp.
      (the  Resource Capital Stock  and together with the Bancorp Stock, the
 Collateral  and (iii) Resource Capital Investor, Inc. and Resource
      Capital Manager, Inc. shall each execute and deliver the Guaranty  Agreements.
      The Borrower shall execute and deliver, and cause to be executed and delivered,
      the Pledge Agreements and shall cause the execution of the Control
      Agreements.  

3.2      Other
      Actions   :
      Borrower shall do anything further that may be reasonably required by Issuing
      Bank to secure Issuing Bank and effectuate the intentions and objects of this
      Agreement, including, without limitation, the execution and delivery of security
      agreements, contracts and any other documents required hereunder. At Issuing
      Bank's request, Borrower shall also immediately deliver (with execution by
      Borrower of all necessary documents or forms to reflect, implement or enforce
      the Liens described herein) to Issuing Bank all items of which Issuing Bank
      must
      receive possession to obtain a perfected security interest. 

19 

3.3      Filing
      Security Agreement   :
      A
      carbon, photographic or other reproduction or other copy of this Agreement
      or of
      a financing statement is sufficient as and may be filed in lieu of a financing
      statement. 

3.4      Power
      of Attorney   :
      Each of
      the officers of Issuing Bank is hereby irrevocably made, constituted and
      appointed the true and lawful attorney for Borrower (without requiring any
      of
      them to act as such) with full power of substitution to do the following: (a)
      in
      the event Borrower fails or refuses to do so, execute in the name of Borrower
      any schedules, assignments, instruments, documents and statements that Borrower
      is obligated to give Issuing Bank hereunder or is necessary to perfect (or
      continue or evidence the perfection of such security interest or Lien) Issuing
      Bank's security interest or Lien in the Collateral; (b) during the continuance
      of an Event of Default, endorse the name of Borrower upon any and all checks,
      drafts, money orders and other instruments for the payment of monies that are
      payable to Borrower and constitute collections on such Borrower's Accounts
      or
      proceeds of other Collateral; and (c) during the continuance of an Event of
      Default, do such other and further acts in the name of Borrower that Issuing
      Bank may reasonably deem necessary or desirable to enforce any Account or other
      Collateral. 

SECTION
      4.     CLOSING
      AND CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO ADVANCES  

Closing
      under this Agreement is subject to the following conditions precedent (all
      documents to be in form and substance satisfactory to Agent and Agent s
      counsel):  

4.1      Resolutions,
      Opinions, and Other Documents   :
      Borrower shall have delivered or caused to be delivered to Agent and each Lender
      the following:    

a.     this
      Agreement and the Revolving Credit Notes, all properly executed;  

b.     each
      other Loan Document; 

c.     the
      Guaranty Agreements; 

d.     the
      Pledge Agreements; 

e.     the
      Control Agreements; 

f.     the
      original stock certificates of the Bancorp Stock, duly endorsed in blank for
      transfer, by the Borrower; 

g.     a
      letter
      of counsel to the Borrower addressed to the Agent under Rule 144 of the
      Securities Act, in form and substance acceptable to counsel to the
      Agent; 

h.     the
      registration statement dated May 24, 2006, filed with the United States
      Securities Exchange Commission, with respect to the Resource Capital
      Stock; 

i.     certified
      copies of (i) resolutions of the board of directors (or comparable governing
      body) of Borrower authorizing the execution of this Agreement, and the Revolving
      Credit Notes, to be issued hereunder and each other Loan Document; and (ii)
      Borrower's Articles or Certificate of Incorporation (as applicable) and By-laws,
      or other appropriate organizational documents;  

20 

j.     an
      incumbency certificate for Borrower identifying all Authorized Officers, with
      specimen signatures; 

k.     a
      written
      opinion of Borrower's independent counsel addressed to Agent for the benefit
      of
      all Lenders and opinions of such other counsel as Agent deems
      necessary; 

l.     certification
      by the chief financial officer of Borrower that there has not occurred any
      material adverse change in the operations and condition (financial or otherwise)
      of Borrower since March 31, 2006; 

m.     payment
      by Borrower of all fees including, without limitation, any Expenses associated
      with Loans or Letters of Credit incurred to the Closing Date; 

n.     Uniform
      Commercial Code, judgment, federal and state tax lien searches against Borrower,
      at Borrower's expense, showing that the Property of Borrower is not subject
      to
      any Liens except for Permitted Liens, together with Good Standing and Corporate
      Tax Lien Search Certificates showing no Liens on Borrower's Property (other
      than
      Permitted Liens), and showing Borrower to be in good standing in its
      jurisdiction of organization and each other jurisdiction where the failure
      to be
      in good standing would have a Material Adverse Effect; and 

o.     Such
      other documents requested by Agent. 

4.2      Absence
      of Certain Events   :
      At the
      Closing Date, no Event of Default or Default hereunder shall have occurred
      and
      be continuing. 

4.3      Warranties
      and Representations at Closing   :
      The
      warranties and representations contained in this Agreement shall be true and
      correct in all material respects on the Closing Date with the same effect as
      though made on and as of that date. Borrower shall not have taken any action
      or
      permitted any condition to exist, which would have been prohibited by any
      Section hereof.    

4.4      Compliance
      with this Agreement   :
      Borrower shall have performed and complied in all material respects, with all
      agreements, covenants and conditions contained herein   including,
      without limitation, the provisions of Sections 6 and 7 hereof, which are
      required to be performed or complied with by Borrower before or at the Closing
      Date. 

4.5      Closing   :
      Subject
      to the conditions of this Section 4, the Revolving Credit shall be made
      available on the date ( Closing Date ) this Agreement is executed and all of the
      conditions contained in Section 4.1 hereof are completed (the
 Closing ). 

4.6      Non-Waiver
      of Rights   :
      By
      completing the Closing hereunder, or by making advances hereunder, Agent and
      Lenders do not thereby waive a breach of any warranty or representation made
      by
      Borrower hereunder or any agreement, document, or instrument delivered to Agent
      or any Lender, or otherwise referred to herein, and any claims and rights of

21 

Agent or any Lender resulting from any breach or
      misrepresentation by Borrower, or any of them, are specifically reserved by
      Agent and Lenders.    

4.7      Conditions
      to Advances:   
      Each
      request by Borrower for an Advance under the Revolving Credit in any form
      following the Closing Date and any request for a Letter of Credit shall
      constitute an automatic representation and warranty, the truth and accuracy
      of
      such representation and warranty of which shall be a further condition to the
      funding of each Advance, by Borrower to the effect that (without waiving,
      impairing or limiting the rights of Agent and Lenders under Section 8
      below): 

a.     There
      has
      not occurred any event or occurrence since the date of delivery of Borrower's
      most recent financial statements, which has resulted in, or has had, a Material
      Adverse Effect.  

b.     No
      Event
      of Default or Default then exists; 

c.     Each
      Advance is within and complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement
      including without limitation the notice provisions contained in Section 2.3
      hereof; and 

d.     Each
      representation and warranty set forth in this Agreement is then true and correct
      in all material respects; provided that Borrower may update all Schedules and
      prepare additional Schedules so that all such Schedules and the representations
      and warranties, taken together, accurately reflect the state of Borrower's
      affairs as of the date of a request for an Advance by giving written notice
      thereof to Agent, and further provided that such updated and additional
      Schedules do not reflect events or conditions which constitute violations of
      Section 6 or 7 hereof or otherwise reflect material adverse developments.

SECTION
      5.     REPRESENTATIONS
      AND WARRANTIES  

To
      induce
      Agent, Lenders and Issuing Bank to complete the Closing, and make the initial
      Advances under the Revolving Credit to Borrower, Borrower warrants and
      represents to Agent, Lenders and Issuing Bank that:  

5.1     Organization
      and Validity:    

a.     Borrower
      is a corporation duly organized, and validly existing under the laws of the
      State of Delaware, is duly qualified, is validly existing and in good standing
      and has lawful power and authority to engage in the business it conducts in
      each
      state where the nature and extent of its business requires qualification, except
      where the failure to so qualify will not have a Material Adverse Effect. A
      list
      of all states and other jurisdictions where Borrower is qualified to do business
      is attached hereto as shown on Schedule 5.1, attached hereto and made a part
      hereof.  

b.     The
      making and performance of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents will
      not
      violate or result in a default (immediately or with the passage of time) under
      any law, government rule or regulation, or the charter, minutes, bylaw
      provisions, or operating agreement of Borrower, or any material contract,
      agreement or instrument to which Borrower is  

22 

a
    party, or by which it is bound. Borrower is not in violation of and has not
    knowingly caused any Person to violate any term of any material agreement or
    instrument to which it or such Person is a party or by which it may be bound
    or
    of its charter, minutes, bylaws, trust agreement, or operating agreement. 

c.     Borrower
      has all requisite power and authority to enter into and perform this Agreement
      and to incur the obligations herein provided for, and has taken all proper
      and
      necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this
      Agreement, the Loan Documents and the documents and related agreements required
      hereby.  

d.     This
      Agreement, the Loan Documents and all related agreements and documents required
      to be executed and delivered by Borrower hereunder, when delivered, will be
      valid and binding upon Borrower, and enforceable in accordance with their
      respective terms subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar
      laws affecting creditors  rights generally. 

5.2      Places
      of Business   :
      The
      only places of business of Borrower, and the places where Borrower keeps and
      intends to keep its Property and records concerning its Property, are at the
      addresses shown on Schedule 5.2 attached hereto and made a part
      hereof.    

5.3      Pending
      Litigation   :
      There
      are no judgments or judicial or administrative orders, proceedings, litigation
      or investigations (civil or criminal) pending, or to Borrower's knowledge,
      threatened, against Borrower in any court or before any governmental authority
      or arbitration board or tribunal except as shown on Schedule 5.3, attached
      hereto and made a part hereof, none of which are likely to have a Material
      Adverse Effect. Borrower is not in default with respect to any order of any
      court, governmental authority, regulatory agency or arbitration board or
      tribunal. Neither Borrower nor any executive officer of Borrower has been
      indicted or convicted in connection with or is engaging in any criminal conduct,
      or is currently subject to any lawsuit or proceeding or, to Borrower's
      knowledge, under investigation in connection with any anti-racketeering or
      criminal conduct or activity.    

5.4      Title
        to Properties   :
        Borrower has good and marketable title (except with respect to its leasehold
        interests in real property) to all of its Property free from Liens, and free
        from the claims of any other Person, except for Permitted Liens. 

5.5      Consent   :
        No
        consent, approval or authorization of, or filing, registration, or qualification
        with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person on the part of Borrower
        is
        necessary or required in connection with Borrower's execution, delivery,
        and
        performance of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents.    

5.6      Taxes   :
        All tax
        returns required to be filed by Borrower in any jurisdiction have in fact
        been
        filed, and all taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges upon
        Borrower, or upon any of its Property, income or franchises, which are shown
        to
        be due and payable on such returns have been paid, except for those taxes
        being
        contested in good faith with due diligence by appropriate proceedings for
        which
        appropriate reserves have been maintained under GAAP. Borrower is not aware
        of
        any proposed additional tax assessment or tax to be assessed   

23 

against or applicable to Borrower that would
        be reasonably likely to have
        a Material Adverse Effect.    

5.7      Financial
      Statements   :
      Borrower's audited financial statements for the year ended December 31,
      2005, and the related income statement and statement of cash flow as of such
      date (complete copies of which have been delivered to Agent), have been prepared
      in accordance with GAAP and present fairly, the financial position of Borrower
      as of such date and the results of its opera-tions for such period. Borrower's
      fiscal year ends on September 30 of each calendar year. Borrower's federal
      tax
      identification number and state organizational identification number are as
      shown on Schedule 5.7, attached hereto and made a part hereof. 

5.8      Full
      Disclosure   :
      Neither
      the financial statements referred to in Section 4.7 and Section 5.7, nor
      this Agreement nor any other Loan Document or any written reports or
      certificates, or other financial statements or reports furnished by Borrower
      to
      Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of the Loans or this
      Agreement or contained in any financial statements or documents relating to
      Borrower, as of the time they were furnished, contained any untrue statement
      of
      a material fact or omit a material fact necessary to make the statements
      contained therein or herein not misleading; provided that, with respect to
      projected financial information, Borrower represents and warrants only that
      such
      information represents Borrower's expectations regarding future performance
      based upon historical information and reasonable assumptions, it being
      understood, however, that actual results may differ from the projected results
      described in the financial projections. There is no fact known to Borrower,
      which has not been disclosed in writing to Agent, which has or could have a
      Material Adverse Effect. 

5.9      Subsidiaries   :
      Borrower has no Subsidiaries or Affiliates, except as shown on Schedule 5.9
      attached hereto and made a part hereof. 

5.10      Guarantees,
      Contracts, etc.   :    

a.     Borrower
      does not own, or hold any Investments, in any Person except Permitted
      Investments. 

b.     Borrower
      is not a party to any contract or agreement, or subject to any charter or other
      corporate restriction, which has or could have a Material Adverse
      Effect. 

c.     Except
      as
      otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, Borrower has not agreed
      or
      consented to cause or permit any of its Property whether now owned or hereafter
      acquired to be subject in the future (upon the happening of a contingency or
      otherwise) to a Lien not permitted by this Agreement.  

5.11      Government
      Regulations, etc.   :    

a.     The
      use
      of the proceeds of the Revolving Credit and Borrower's issuance of the Revolving
      Credit Notes, will not directly or indirectly violate or result in a violation
      of Section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or
      Regulations U, T, and X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
      System, 12 C.F.R., Chapter II. Borrower does not  

24 

own
    nor intend to carry or purchase any  margin stock  within the meaning of said
    Regulation U.  

b.     Borrower
      has obtained all licenses, permits, franchises or other governmental
      authorizations necessary for the ownership of its Property and for the conduct
      of its business, except those which, if not obtained, would have or could have
      a
      Material Adverse Effect.  

c.     As
      of the
      date hereof, no employee benefit plan ( Pension Plan ), as defined in Section
      3(2) of ERISA, maintained by Borrower or under which Borrower could have any
      liability under ERISA (i) has failed to meet the minimum funding standards
      established in Section 302 of ERISA; (ii) has failed to comply with all
      applicable requirements of ERISA and of the Internal Revenue Code, including
      all
      applicable rulings and regulations there under; (iii) has engaged in or been
      involved in a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or
      Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code which would subject Borrower to
      any liability; or (iv) has been terminated if such termination would
      subject Borrower to any liability. Borrower has not assumed, or received notice
      of a claim asserted against Borrower for, withdrawal liability (as defined
      in
      Section 4207 of ERISA) with respect to any multi- employer pension plan and
      is not a member of any Controlled Group (as defined in ERISA). Borrower has
      timely made all contributions when due with respect to any multi-employer
      pension plan in which it participates and no event has occurred triggering
      a
      claim against Borrower for withdrawal liability with respect to any
      multi-employer pension plan in which Borrower participates. All Pension Plans
      and multi-employer pension plans to which Borrower participates are shown on
      Schedule 5.11, attached hereto and made a part hereof. 

d.     Borrower
      is not in violation of, and has not received written notice that, it is in
      violation of, or has knowingly caused any Person to violate any applicable
      statute, regulation or ordinance of the United States of America, or of any
      state, city, town, municipality,   county
      or
      of any other jurisdiction, or of any agency, or department thereof, (including
      without limitation, security laws and regulations).  

5.12      Names   :    

a.     Borrower
      has not conducted business under or used any other name (whether corporate
      or
      assumed) except for the names shown on Schedule 5.12(a), attached hereto and
      made a part hereof. Borrower is the sole owner of all names shown on such
      Schedule 5.12(a) and any and all business done and all invoices issued in such
      trade names are Borrower's sales, business and invoices. Each trade name of
      Borrower represents a division or trading style of Borrower and not a separate
      corporate subsidiary or affiliate or independent entity.  

b.     All
      registered trademarks, patents or copyrights, or such as to which applications
      for registration have been submitted, which any Borrower uses, plans to use
      or
      has a right to use are shown on Schedule 5.12(b), attached hereto and made
      a
      part hereof. Borrower is the sole owner of such intellectual Property except
      to
      the extent any other Person has claims or rights in such Property, as such
      claims and rights are described on Schedule 5.12(b). Borrower is not in
      violation of any rights of any other Person with respect to such intellectual
      Property.  

25 

5.13      Other
      Associations   :
      Borrower is not engaged, and has no interest in, any joint venture or
      partnership with any other Person except as shown on Schedule 5.13, attached
      hereto and made a part hereof.    

5.14      Regulation
      O   :
      No
      director, executive officer, and to Borrower's knowledge, no principal
      shareholder or equity holder of Borrower is a director, executive officer,
      or
      principal shareholder of any Lender. For the purposes hereof the terms
 director  (when used with reference to a Lender),  executive officer  and
 principal shareholder  have the respective meanings assigned thereto in
      Regulation O issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
      System. 

5.15      Solvency   :
      Borrower is solvent, able to pay its debts as they become due, and has capital
      sufficient to carry on its business and all businesses in which it is about
      to
      engage, and now owns Property having a value both at fair valuation and at
      present fair salable value greater than the amount required to pay its debts.
      Borrower will not be rendered insolvent by the execution and delivery of this
      Agreement, or any of the other documents executed in connection with this
      Agreement, or the Acquisition, or by performance of the transactions
      contemplated hereunder or thereunder or thereby.    

5.16      Investment
      Company   :
      Borrower is not (a) an  investment company  or a company  controlled  by an
 investment company  within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940,
      as amended, (b) a  holding company  or a  subsidiary company  of a  holding
      company,  or an  affiliate  of a  holding company  or of a  subsidiary company 
of a  holding company,  within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company
      Act of 1935, as amended, or (c) subject to any other law which purports to
      regulate or restrict its ability to borrow money or to consummate the
      transactions contemplated by this Loan Agreement or the other Loan Documents
      or
      to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder. 
 
      5.17      Anti-Terrorism
      Laws   : 

a.      General   .
      Neither
      Borrower nor any Subsidiary of Borrower is in violation of any Anti-Terrorism
      Law or engages in or conspires to engage in any transaction that evades or
      avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate,
      any
      of the prohibitions set forth in any Anti-Terrorism Law. 

b.      Executive
      Order No. 13224   .
      Neither
      Borrower nor any Subsidiary of Borrower, or to Borrower's knowledge, any of
      its
      respective agents acting or benefiting in any capacity in connection with the
      Loans, Letters of Credit or other transactions hereunder, is any of the
      following (each a  Blocked Person ): 

(i)     a
      Person
      that is listed in the annex to, or is otherwise subject to the provisions of,
      the Executive Order No. 13224; 

(ii)     a
      Person
      owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, any Person that is listed
      in the annex to, or is otherwise subject to the provisions of, the Executive
      Order No. 13224; 

26 

(iii)     a
      Person
      with which Lender is prohibited from dealing or otherwise engaging in any
      transaction by any Anti-Terrorism Law; 

(iv)     a
      Person
      that commits, threatens or conspires to commit or supports  terrorism  as
      defined in the Executive Order No. 13224; 

(v)     a
      Person
      that is named as a  specially designated national  on the most current list
      published by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Asset Control at
      its
      official website or any replacement website or other replacement official
      publication of such list; or 

(vi)     a
      Person
      who is affiliated with a Person listed above. 

5.18      Bancorp
      Stock   :
      Borrower acquired the shares of Bancorp Stock on the dates and in the amounts
      set forth on    Schedule
      5.18   ,
      attached hereto and made a part hereof. All such shares of Bancorp Stock are
      restricted securities under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. The one year holding
      period, as defined in Rule 144(d) of the Securities Act, as to 323,286 shares
      of
      Bancorp Stock as set forth on Schedule 5.18 has elapsed, and, as to 85,004
      shares of Bancorp Stock as set forth on Schedule 5.18, will elapse on September
      19, 2006. The Agent, as pledgee of the Bancorp Stock, can sell such Bancorp
      Stock pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act.  
      The two
      year holding period, as defined in Rule 144(k) of the Securities Act, as to
      182,500 shares of Bancorp Stock, has elapsed, as to 140,786 shares of Bancorp
      Stock, will elapse on July 14, 2006, and as to 85,004 shares of Bancorp Stock,
      will elapse on September 19, 2007. 

Borrower
      has all requisite power and authority to pledge the Bancorp Stock as collateral
      for the Obligations. 

SECTION
      6.   AFFIRMATIVE
      COVENANTS 

Borrower
      covenants that until all of the Obligations to Agent, Lenders and Issuing Bank
      are paid and satisfied in full and the Revolving Credit and Letters of Credit
      have been terminated: 

6.1      Payment
      of Taxes and Claims   :
      Borrower shall pay, before they become delinquent, (a) all taxes, assessments
      and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or its Property, and (b)
      all
      claims or demands of material men, mechanics, carriers, warehousemen, landlords
      and other Persons entitled to the benefit of statutory or common law Liens,
      which, in either case, if unpaid, would result in the imposition of a Lien
      upon
      its Property; provided, however, that Borrower shall not be required to pay
      any
      such tax, assessment, charge, levy, claim or demand if the amount, applicability
      or validity thereof shall at the time be contested in good faith and by
      appropriate proceedings by Borrower, and if Borrower shall have set aside on
      its
      books adequate reserves in respect thereof, in accordance with GAAP; which
      deferment of payment is permissible so long as no Lien other than a Permitted
      Lien has been entered and Borrower's title to, and its right to use, its
      Property are not materially ad-versely affected thereby. 

27 

6.2      Maintenance
      of Properties and Corporate Existence   :    

a.      Property   :
      Borrower shall maintain its Property in good condition and make all renewals,
      replacements, additions, betterments and improvements thereto in the ordinary
      course of business, as Borrower deems reasonably necessary in good faith in
      the
      exercise of its business judgment, and will pay and discharge when due the
      cost
      of repairs and maintenance to its Property. 

b.      Property
      Insurance, Environmental Insurance, Public and Products Liability
      Insurance   :
      Borrower shall maintain insurance (i) on all insurable tangible Property against
      fire, flood, casualty and such other hazards (including, without limitation,
      extended coverage, workmen's compensation, boiler and machinery, with inflation
      coverage by endorsement) and (ii) against public liability, product liability
      and business interruption, in each case in such amounts, with such deductibles
      and with such insurers as are customarily used by companies operating in the
      same industry as Borrower. At or prior to Closing, Borrower shall furnish Agent
      with duplicate original policies of insurance or such other evidence of
      insurance as Agent may require. In the event Borrower fails to procure or cause
      to be procured any such insurance or to timely pay or cause to be paid the
      premium(s) on any such insurance, Agent may do so for Borrower, but Borrower
      shall continue to be liable for the same. Borrower further covenants that all
      insurance premiums owing under its current policies have been paid. Borrower
      shall notify Agent, immediately, upon Borrower's receipt of a notice of
      termination, cancellation, or non-renewal from its insurance company of any
      such
      policy 

c.      Financial
      Records   :
      Borrower shall keep current and accurate books of records and accounts in which
      full and correct entries will be made of all of its business transactions,
      and
      will reflect in its financial statements adequate accruals and appropriations
      to
      reserves, all in accordance with GAAP. Borrower shall not change its fiscal
      year
      end date.  
 
      d.      Corporate
      Existence and Rights   :
      Borrower shall do (or cause to be done) all things necessary to preserve and
      keep in full force and effect its existence, good standing in all jurisdictions
      where its failure to be in good standing might result in a Material Adverse
      Effect, and all of its rights, licenses and franchises, the absence of which
      might result in a Material Adverse Effect. 

e.      Compliance
      with Laws   :
      Borrower shall (i) be in compliance with any and all laws, ordinances,
      governmental rules and regulations, and court or administrative orders or
      decrees to which it is subject, whether federal, state or local, (including
      without limitation, securities laws, statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations
      and notices); (ii) obtain and maintain any and all licenses, permits, franchises
      or other governmental authorizations necessary to the ownership of its Property
      or to the conduct of its business, which violation or failure to obtain or
      maintain causes or might cause a Material Adverse Effect. Borrower shall timely
      satisfy all assessments, fines, costs and penalties imposed by any governmental
      body against Borrower or any Property of Borrower.  

6.3      Business
      Conducted   :
      Borrower shall continue in the business presently operated by it using its
      best
      efforts to maintain its customers and goodwill. Borrower shall not engage,
      directly or indirectly, in any material respect in any line of business
      substantially different from the business conducted by Borrower immediately
      prior to the Closing Date, unless such line of business is reasonably related
      to
      such business so conducted prior to the Closing Date.    

28 

6.4      Litigation   :
      Borrower shall give prompt notice to Agent of (a) the commencement against
      Borrower of any litigation claiming from Borrower more than Two Hundred Fifty
      Thousand Dollars ($250,000) in excess of any available insurance coverage
      Borrower may have for such claim, and (b) any other claims made against
      Borrower, or investigations or proceedings commenced against Borrower, the
      existence of which or adverse disposition of which might have a Material Adverse
      Effect.    

6.5      Taxes   :
      Borrower shall pay all taxes (other than taxes based upon or measured by any
      Lender's income or revenues or any personal property tax), if any, in connection
      with the issuance of the Revolving Credit Notes and the recording of any lien
      documents. The obligations of Borrower hereunder shall survive the payment
      of
      Borrower's Obligations hereunder and the termination of this
      Agreement    

6.6      Bank
      Accounts   :
      Borrower shall maintain its principal depository and disbursement account(s)
      with Agent. 

6.7      Employee
      Benefit Plans   :
      Borrower will (a) fund all its Pension Plan(s) in a manner that will satisfy
      the
      minimum funding standards of Section 302 of ERISA, or will promptly satisfy
      any
      accumulated funding deficiency that arises under Section 302 of ERISA,
      (b) furnish Agent, promptly upon Agent s request of the same, with copies
      of all reports or other statements filed with the United States Department
      of
      Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ( PBGC ) or the IRS, with
      respect to all Pension Plan(s), or which Borrower, or any member of a Controlled
      Group, may receive from the United States Department of Labor, the IRS or the
      PBGC, with respect to all such Pension Plan(s), and (c) promptly advise Agent
      of
      the occurrence of any reportable event (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA,
      other than a reportable   event
      for
      which the thirty (30) day notice requirement has been waived by the PBGC)
      or prohibited transaction (under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975
      of the Internal Revenue Code) with respect to any such Pension Plan(s) and
      the
      action which Borrower propose to take with respect thereto. Borrower will make
      all contributions when due with respect to any multi-employer pension plan
      in
      which it participates and will promptly advise Agent (i) upon its receipt of
      notice of the assertion against it of a claim for withdrawal liability,
      (ii) upon the occurrence of any event which to the best of Borrower's
      knowledge, would trigger the assertion of a claim for withdrawal liability
      against any Borrower, and (iii) upon the occurrence of any event which, to
      the
      best of Borrower's knowledge, would place Borrower in a Controlled Group as
      a
      result of which any member (including Borrower) thereof may be subject to a
      claim for withdrawal liability, whether liquidated or contingent. 

6.8      Financial
      Covenants   :
      Borrower shall maintain and comply with the following financial
      covenants: 

a.      Net
      Worth   :
      Borrower shall maintain a minimum Net Worth of not less than
      $150,000,000. 

29 

b.      Senior
      Debt to Net Worth   :
      Borrower shall maintain a Senior Debt to Net Worth Ratio of not greater than
      2.0. 

6.9      Financial
      and Business Information   :
      Borrower shall deliver to Agent and each Lender the following:    

a.      Financial
      Statements   :
      such
      data, reports, statements and information, financial or otherwise, as Agent
      may
      reasonably request, including, without limitation:  

(i)     within
      one hundred and twenty (120) days after the end of each fiscal year of Borrower,
      consolidated financial statements of Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries
      for
      such year on a consolidated and consolidating basis, eliminating inter-company
      transactions, including the balance sheet as at the end of such fiscal year
      and
      a statement of cash flows and income statement for such fiscal year, setting
      forth in the consolidated statements in comparative form, the corresponding
      figures as at the end of and for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable
      detail, including all supporting schedules, and audited and certified on an
      unqualified basis by independent public accountants of recognized standing,
      selected by Borrower and reasonably satisfactory to Agent, to have been prepared
      in accordance with GAAP and such independent public accountants shall also
      unqualifiedly certify that in making the examinations necessary to their
      certification mentioned above they have reviewed the terms of this Agreement
      and
      the accounts and conditions of Borrower during the accounting period covered
      by
      the certificate and that such review did not disclose the existence of any
      condition or event which constitutes a Default or an Event of Default (or if
      such conditions or events existed, describing them) together with copies of
      any
      management letters provided by such accountants to management of
      Borrower; 

(ii)     within
      forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, the consolidated
      and consolidating income and cash flow statements of Borrower and its
      Subsidiaries for such quarter and for the expired portion of the fiscal year
      ending with the end of   such
      quarter, setting forth in comparative form the corresponding figures for the
      corresponding periods of the previous fiscal year, and the consolidated and
      consolidating balance sheet of Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end
      of
      such quarter, setting forth in comparative form the corresponding figures as
      at
      the end of the corresponding periods of the previous fiscal year, all in
      reasonable detail and certified by Borrower's chief financial officer to have
      been prepared from the books and records of Borrower; and 

(iii)     together
      with the annual financial statements required under clause (a)(i) above,
      Borrower's annual financial statement projections for the upcoming fiscal year,
      including the projected income statements and balance sheets of Borrower and
      its
      Subsidiaries on a quarter-by-quarter basis. 

b.      Borrowing
      Base Certificate   :
      with
      each requested Advance, and monthly, not later than fifteen (15) days following
      each month-end, a signed borrowing base certificate in the form of Exhibit
 C 
attached hereto and made a part hereof ( Borrowing Base
      Certificate  

c.      Notice
      of Event of Default   :
      promptly upon becoming aware of the existence of any condition or event which
      constitutes an Event of Default or Default under   thisAgreement,
      a written notice specifying the nature and period of existence thereof and
      what
      action Borrower is taking (and proposes to take) with respect
      thereto;   

30 

d.      Notice
      of Claimed Default   :
      promptly upon receipt by Borrower, a copy of any notice of default, oral or
      written, given to Borrower, or any of them, by any creditor for Indebtedness
      for
      borrowed money, otherwise holding long term Indebtedness of Borrower, or any
      of
      them, in excess of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000);
      and 

e.      Securities
      and Other Reports   :
      if
      Borrower shall be required to file reports with the Securities and Exchange
      Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
      of
      1934, as amended, promptly upon its becoming available, one copy of each
      financial statement, report, notice or proxy statement sent by Borrower to
      stockholders generally, and, a copy of each regular or periodic report, and
      any
      registration statement, or prospectus in respect thereof, filed by Borrower
      with
      any securities exchange or with federal or state securities and exchange
      commissions or any successor agency. 

6.10      Officers'
      Certificates   :
      Along
      with the financial statements delivered to Agent at the end of each fiscal
      quarter pursuant to Section 6.9(a)(ii) hereof and the annual financial
      statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.9(a)(i) hereof, Borrower shall
      deliver to Agent a certificate ( Quarterly Compliance Certificate ) (in the form
      of Exhibit  D  attached hereto and made part hereof) from an Authorized Officer
      of Borrower (and as to certificates accompanying the annual financial statements
      of Borrower, also certified by Borrower s independent certified public
      accountant) setting forth: 

a.      Event
      of Default   
      - that
      the signer has reviewed the terms of this Agreement, and has made (or caused
      to
      be made under his/her supervision) a review of the transactions and conditions
      of Borrower from the beginning of the accounting period covered by the financial
      statements being delivered therewith to the date of the certificate, and that
      such review has not disclosed the existence during such period of any condition
      or event which   constitutes
      a Default or an Event of Default or, if any such condition or event exists,
      specifying the nature and period of existence thereof and what action Borrower
      has taken or proposes to take with respect thereto.  

b.      Covenant
      Compliance   
      - the
      information (including detailed calculations) required in order to establish
      that Borrower is in compliance with the requirements of Section 6.8 of this
      Agreement, as of the end of the period covered by the financial statements
      delivered. 

6.11      Inspection   :
      Borrower will permit any of Agent s officers or other representatives to visit
      and inspect any of the locations of Borrower at any time during normal business
      hours to examine and audit all of Borrower's books of account, records, reports
      and other papers, to make copies and extracts there from and to discuss its
      affairs, finances and accounts with its officers, employees and independent
      certified public accountants. Borrower hereby irrevocably authorizes and directs
      all such accountants and auditors to exhibit and deliver to Agent copies of
      any
      and all of such Borrower's financial statements, or other accounting records
      of
      any sort, in the accountant s or auditor s possession. All such inspections
      shall, during the continuance of an Event of Default, be at Borrower's expense
      at the standard rates charged by Agent for such activities (plus Agent s
      reasonable out-of-pocket expenses).    

31 

6.12      Information
      to Participant   :
      Each
      Lender may divulge to any participant, co-lender or assignee or prospective
      participant, co-lender or assignee it is permitted to obtain in the Loans,
      or
      any portion thereof, all information, and furnish to such Person copies of
      any
      reports, financial statements, certificates, and documents obtained under any
      provision of this Agreement, or related agreements and documents provided that
      such Person agrees to such confidentiality provisions as may be reasonably
      satisfactory to Borrower and Agent.    

6.13      Name
      Changes, Places of Business   :
      Borrower shall give thirty (30) days prior written notice to Agent of any name
      change or change in the location of any of its respective places of business
      or
      the establishment of any new, or the discontinuance of any existing place of
      business.    

6.14      Bancorp
      Stock   :
      Borrower shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to Agent, not later than
      five
      (5) days from the date of filing with the United States Securities and Exchange
      Commission, each updated prospectus for the Bancorp Stock.  Borrower shall
      remain an Affiliate (as defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act) of the
      Bancorp at all times during the term of this Agreement. 

SECTION
      7.     NEGATIVE
      COVENANTS:  

Borrower
      covenants that until all of the Obligations to Agent, Lenders and Issuing Bank
      are paid and satisfied in full and the Revolving Credit, including the Letters
      of Credit have been terminated, that: 

7.1      Merger,
      Consolidation, Dissolution or Liquidation   :    

a.     Borrower
      shall not engage in any Asset Sale, other than liquidation or sale of Securities
      in the ordinary course of Borrower's business. 

b.     Borrower
      shall not merge or consolidate with any other Person, or commence a dissolution
      or liquidation.  

7.2      Loans
      and Investments   :
      Borrower shall not make any Investments in any Person, other than Permitted
      Investments.    

7.3      Liens
      and Encumbrances   :
      Borrower shall not cause or permit or agree or consent to cause or permit in
      the
      future (upon the happening of a contingency or otherwise), the Collateral
      whether now owned or hereafter acquired, to be subject to a Lien or be subject
      to any claim, except for Permitted Liens. 

7.4      Guarantees   :
      Except
      for the endorsement in the ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments
      for deposit or collection, and for Permitted Indebtedness, Borrower shall not
      become or be liable, directly or indirectly, primary or secondary, matured
      or
      contingent, in any manner, whether as guarantor, surety, accommodation maker,
      or
      otherwise, for the existing or future Indebtedness of any kind of any Person,
      other than its Subsidiaries.    

7.5      Use
      of
      Lenders  Name   :
      Borrower shall not use any Lender s name (or the name of any of any Lender s
      Affiliates) or Agent s name in connection with any of its business, operations
      except to identify the existence of the Revolving Credit and the names of
      Lenders and Agent in the ordinary course of Borrower's business. Nothing herein
      contained is intended to permit or authorize Borrower to make any commitment
      or
      contract on behalf of any Lender or Agent. 

32 

7.6      Miscellaneous
      Covenants   :    

a.     Borrower
      shall not become or be a party to any contract or agreement which at the time
      of
      becoming a party to such contract or agreement materially impairs Borrower's
      ability to perform under this Agreement, or under any other instru-ment,
      agreement or document to which Borrower is a party or by which it is or may
      be
      bound.  

b.     Borrower
      shall not carry or purchase any  margin stock  within the meaning of Regulations
      U, T or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 12 C.F.R.,
      Chapter II. 

SECTION
      8.     DEFAULT  

8.1      Events
      of Default   :
      Each of
      the following events shall constitute an event of default ( Event of
      Default ): 

a.      Payments   
      - if
      Borrower fails to make any payment on account of the Obligations, whether
      principal, interest, or any fees within ten (10) days of the due date of such
      payment or fails to immediately reimburse Issuing Bank for any draw under any
      Letter of Credit; or  

b.      Other
      Charges   
      - if
      Borrower fails to pay any other charges, Expenses or other monetary obligations
      owing to any Lender, Issuing Bank or Agent arising out of or   incurred
      in connection with this Agreement within ten (10) days after notice that such
      payment was not made when due or demanded, as applicable; or  

c.      Covenant
      Defaults   
      - if
      Borrower fails to perform, comply with or observe any covenant or undertaking
      contained in this Agreement and (other than with respect to the covenants
      contained in Sections 7 and 8.1 for which no cure period shall exist), such
      failure continues for fifteen (15) days after the occurrence thereof; provided,
      however, if such default is capable of being cured, it shall not constitute
      an
      Event of Default if corrective action is instituted by the Borrower within
      fifteen (15) days of the default and diligently pursued until the default is
      cured, and such default is cured within thirty (30) days of the default;
      or 

d.      Financial
      Information   
      - if any
      statement, report, financial statement, or certificate made or delivered at
      any
      time by Borrower, or any of its officers, employees or agents, to Agent or
      any
      Lender is not true and correct, in all material respects, when made;
      or 

e.      Warranties
      or Representations   
      - if any
      warranty, representation or other statement by or on behalf of Borrower
      contained in or pursuant to this Agreement, or in any document, agreement or
      instrument furnished in compliance with, relating to, or in reference to this
      Agreement, is false, erroneous, or misleading in any material respect when
      made
      or deemed made; or 

33 

f.      Agreements
      with Others   
      - (i) if
      Borrower shall default beyond any grace period in payment of principal or
      interest of any Indebtedness of Borrower in excess of $250,000 in the aggregate,
      or (ii) if Borrower otherwise defaults under the terms of any such Indebtedness,
      if the effect of such default is to enable the holder of such Indebtedness
      to
      accelerate the payment of Borrower's obligations, which are the subject thereof,
      prior to the maturity date or prior to the regularly scheduled date of payment;

g.      Other
      Agreements with Lenders   
      - if
      Borrower breaches or violates the terms of, or if a default or an Event of
      Default, occurs under, any other existing or future agreement (related or
      unrelated) between Borrower or among Borrower or Agent, Issuing Bank or any
      Lender or all Lenders (subject to any applicable grace or cure period which
      may
      be contained in such other agreement); or  

h.      Judgments   
      - if any
      final judgment for the payment of money in excess of $250,000 in the aggregate
      (i) which is not fully and unconditionally covered by insurance or (ii) for
      which Borrower has not established a cash or cash equivalent reserve in the
      full
      amount of such judgment, shall be rendered by a court of record against Borrower
      and such judgment shall continue unsatisfied and in effect for a period of
      sixty
      (60) consecutive days without being vacated, discharged, satisfied or bonded
      pending appeal; or 

i.      Assignment
      for Benefit of Creditors, etc.   
      - if
      Borrower makes or proposes an assignment for the benefit of creditors generally,
      offers a composition or extension to creditors, or makes or sends notice of
      an
      intended bulk sale of any business or assets now or hereafter owned or conducted
      by Borrower; or  

j.      Bankruptcy,
      Dissolution, etc.   
      - upon
      the commencement of any action for the dissolution or liquidation of Borrower,
      or the commencement of any case or proceeding for   reorganization
      or liquidation of Borrower, or any of its, debts under the Bankruptcy Code
      or
      any other state or federal law, now or hereafter enacted for the relief of
      debtors, whether instituted by or against such Borrower;    provided       however   ,
      that
      Borrower shall have sixty (60) days to obtain the dismissal or discharge of
      any
      involuntary proceeding filed against it, it being understood that during such
      sixty (60) day period, no Lender shall be obligated to make Advances hereunder
      and Agent may seek adequate protection in any bankruptcy proceeding; or

k.      Receiver   
      - upon
      the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, custodian, trustee or similar
      official or fiduciary for Borrower, or for Borrower's Property; or 

l.      Execution
      Process, Seizure, etc.   
      - the
      issuance of any execution or distraint process against any Property of Borrower;
      or  

m.      Termination
      of Business   
      - if
      Borrower ceases any material portion of its business operations as presently
      conducted; or  

n.      Pension
      Benefits, etc.   
      - if
      Borrower fails to comply with ERISA, so that proceedings are commenced to
      appoint a trustee under ERISA to administer Borrower's employee plans or the
      Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation institutes proceedings to appoint a trustee
      to administer such plan(s), or to permit the entry of a Lien to secure any
      deficiency or claim or a  reportable event  as defined under ERISA occurs; or

34 

o.      Investigations   
      - any
      indication or evidence received by Agent that reasonably leads it to believe
      Borrower may have directly or indirectly been engaged in any type of activity
      which, would be reasonably likely to result in the forfeiture of any material
      property of Borrower to any governmental entity, federal, state or local;
      or 

p.      Default
      Under Pledge Agreements or Control Agreements   
      - if any
      event of default occurs pursuant to the Pledge Agreements or the Control
      Agreements; or 

q.      Default
      Under Guaranty Agreements   
      - if any
      event of default occurs pursuant to the Guaranty Agreements, the Guaranty
      Agreements are no longer enforceable, or either of the Guarantors claims the
      Guaranty Agreement to which it is a party is not binding upon such
      Guarantor. 

8.2      Cure   :
      Nothing
      contained in this Agreement or the Loan Documents shall be deemed to compel
      Agent, Issuing Bank and/or Lenders to accept a cure of any Event of Default
      hereunder.    

8.3      Rights
      and Remedies on Default   :    

a.     In
      addition to all other rights, options and remedies granted or available to
      Agent
      or Lenders under this Agreement or the Loan Documents, or otherwise available
      at
      law or in equity, upon or at any time after the occurrence and during the
      continuance of a Default or an Event of Default, Agent may, in its discretion,
      direct Lenders, and the Majority Lenders shall have the option to instruct
      Agent
      to direct Lenders, to, withhold or cease making Advances under the Revolving
      Credit. 
 
      b.     In
      addition to all other rights, options and remedies granted or available to
      Agent
      under this Agreement or the Loan Documents (each of which is also then
      exercisable by Agent), Agent may, in its discretion, or at the written direction
      of Majority Lenders shall, upon or at any time after the occurrence and during
      the continuance of an Event of Default, terminate the Credit Facility and
      declare the Obligations immediately due and payable, all without demand, notice,
      presentment or protest or further action of any kind (it also being understood
      that the occurrence of any of the events or conditions set forth in Sections
      8.1(i),(j) or (k) shall automatically cause an acceleration of the
      Obligations). 

c.     In
      addition to all other rights, options and remedies granted or available to
      Agent, under this Agreement or the Loan Documents (each of which is also then
      exercisable by Agent), upon or at any time after the occurrence and during
      the
      continuance of an Event of Default Agent may, in its discretion, or at the
      written direction of Majority Lenders shall, direct Borrower to deliver and
      pledge to Agent, for the ratable benefit of Agent, all Lenders and Issuing
      Bank,
      cash collateral in the amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit. 

d.     In
      addition to all other rights, options and remedies granted or available to
      Agent
      under this Agreement or the Loan Documents (each of which is also then
      exercisable by Agent), Agent may, or at the written direction of Majority
      Lenders shall, upon or at any time following the occurrence of an Event of
      Default, exercise all rights under the UCC and any other applicable law or
      in
      equity, and under all Loan Documents permitted to be exercised after the
      occurrence of an Event of Default. 

35 

e.     Borrower
      hereby authorizes Agent, as secured party, to make any necessary filings under
      Rule 144 of the Securities Act in order to sell the Bancorp Stock upon an Event
      of Default. 

8.4      Nature
      of Remedies   :
      All
      rights and remedies granted Agent or Lenders hereunder and under the Loan
      Documents, or otherwise available at law or in equity, shall be deemed
      concurrent and cumulative, and not alternative remedies, and Agent may proceed
      with any number of remedies at the same time until all Obligations are satisfied
      in full. The exercise of any one right or remedy shall not be deemed a waiver
      or
      release of any other right or remedy, and Agent, upon or at any time after
      the
      occurrence of an Event of Default, may proceed against Borrower, at any time,
      under any agreement, with any available remedy and in any order.    

8.5      Set-Off   : 

a.     If
      any
      bank account of Borrower with Agent, any Lender or any participant is attached
      or otherwise liened or levied upon by any third party, Agent, as agent for
      Lenders shall have and be deemed to have, without notice to Borrower, the
      immediate right of set-off and may apply the funds or amount thus set-off
      against any of the Obligations hereunder.  

b.     In
      addition to all other rights, options and remedies granted or available to
      Agent
      under this Agreement or the Loan Documents (each of which is also then
      exercisable by Agent), upon or at any time after the acceleration of the
      Obligations, Agent (or any Lender) shall have and be deemed to have, without
      notice to Borrower, the immediate right of set off against any bank account
      of
      Borrower with Agent or any Lender, or of Borrower with any other   subsidiary
      or Affiliate or any participant and may apply the funds or amount thus set
      off
      against any of the Obligations hereunder. 

SECTION
      9.     AGENT  

9.1      Appointment
      and Authorization   :
      Each
      Lender, and each subsequent holder of any of the Revolving Credit Notes by
      its
      acceptance thereof, hereby irrevocably appoints and authorizes Agent to take
      such action on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement
      as
      are expressly delegated to Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers
      as are reasonably incidental thereto. Notwithstanding any provision to the
      contrary contained elsewhere herein, or in any other Loan Document, the Agent
      shall have no duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth
      herein, nor shall Agent have to be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship
      with any Lender or participant, and no implied covenants, functions,
      responsibilities, duties, obligations, or liabilities shall be read into this
      Agreement, or any other Loan Documents, or otherwise exist against Agent.
      Without limiting the generality of the foregoing sentence, the use of the term
       agent  herein, and in the other Loan Documents with reference to Agent, is not
      intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations
      arising under agency doctrine of any applicable law. Instead, such term is
      used
      merely as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only
      an administrative relationship between independent contracting
      parties. 

9.2      General
      Immunity   :
      Subject
      to the provisions of this Agreement, Agent will handle all transactions relating
      to the Loans and all other Obligations, including, without  

36 

limitation, all transactions with respect to Letters of
      Credit, this Agreement, the Loan Documents and all related documents in
      accordance with its usual banking practices. In performing its duties as Agent
      hereunder, Agent will take the same care as it takes in connection with loans
      in
      which it alone is interested. However, neither Agent nor any of its directors,
      officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or omitted
      to
      be taken by it or them hereunder or in connection herewith except for its or
      their own gross negligence or willful misconduct. 

9.3      Consultation
      with Counsel   :
      Agent
      may consult with legal counsel and any other professional advisors or
      consultants deemed necessary or appropriate and selected by Agent and shall
      not
      be liable for any action taken or suffered in good faith by it in accordance
      with the advice of such counsel. 

9.4      Documents   :
      Agent
      shall not be under a duty to examine into or pass upon the effectiveness,
      genuineness or validity of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any
      other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or in connection
      herewith, and Agent shall be entitled to assume that the same are valid,
      effective and genuine and what they purport to be. In addition Agent shall
      not
      be liable for failing to make any inquiry concerning the accuracy, performance
      or observance of any of the terms, provisions or conditions of such instrument
      or document.    

9.5      Rights
      as a Lender   :
      With
      respect to its applicable Pro Rata Percentage of the Revolving Credit Loans,
      Agent shall have the same rights and powers hereunder as any other Lender and
      may exercise the same as though it were not Agent, and the term  Lender  or
 Lenders  shall, unless the context otherwise indicates, include Agent in its
      individual capacity.    Subject
      to the provisions of this Agreement, Agent may accept deposits from, lend money
      to and generally engage in any kind of banking or trust business with Borrower
      and its Affiliates as if it were not Agent. 

9.6      Responsibility
      of Agent   :
      It is
      expressly understood and agreed that the obligations of Agent hereunder are
      only
      those expressly set forth in this Agreement and that Agent shall be entitled
      to
      assume that no Event of Default or Default has occurred and is continuing,
      unless Agent has actual knowledge of such fact. Except to the extent Agent
      is
      required by Lenders pursuant to the express terms hereof to take a specific
      action, Agent shall be entitled to use its discretion with respect to exercising
      or refraining from exercising any rights which may be vested in it by, or with
      respect to taking or refraining from taking any action or actions that it may
      be
      able to take under or in respect of, this Agreement and the Loan Documents.
      Agent shall incur no liability under or in respect of this Agreement and the
      Loan Documents by acting upon any notice, consent, certificate, warranty or
      other paper or instrument believed by it to be genuine or authentic or to be
      signed by the proper party or parties, or with respect to anything that it
      may
      do or refrain from doing in the reasonable exercise of its judgment, or that
      may
      seem to it to be necessary or desirable under the circumstances. 

9.7      Collections
      and Disbursements   :    

a.     Agent
      will have the right to collect and receive all payments of the Obligations,
      and
      to collect and receive all reimbursements for draws made under the Letters
      of
      Credit, together with all fees, charges or other amounts due under this
      Agreement and the Loan  

37 

Documents
      and to distribute such payments to Lenders
      and Issuing Bank in accordance with the terms of Section 2.3.  

b.     Agent
      shall pay to each Lender, on each Settlement Date, from the interest actually
      received by Agent from Borrower, a sum equal to the interest calculated for
      the
      actual number of days elapsed on the basis of a year of 360 days, on each
      Lender s outstanding balance of its Revolving Credit at the rate equal to the
      applicable rate of interest chosen by Borrower with respect to such Lender s Pro
      Rata Percentage of the Advances outstanding. If Agent should for any reason
      receive less than the full amount of the interest or other compensation due
      under the Loan Documents, each Lender s share of such interest or compensation
      shall decrease in proportion to each Lender s Pro Rata Percentage. 

c.     If
      any
      such payment received by Agent is rescinded, determined to be unenforceable
      or
      invalid or is otherwise required to be returned for any reason at any time,
      whether before or after termination of this Agreement and the Loan Documents,
      each Lender will, upon written notice from Agent, promptly pay over to Agent
      its
      Pro Rata Percentage of the amount so rescinded, held unenforceable or invalid
      or
      required to be returned, together with interest and other fees thereon if also
      required to be rescinded or returned.  

d.     All
      payments by Agent and Lenders to each other hereunder shall be in immediately
      available funds. Agent will at all times maintain proper books of account and
      records reflecting the interest of each Lender in the Revolving Credit and
      the
      Letters of Credit, in a manner customary to Agent s keeping of such records,
      which books and records shall be available for inspection by each Lender at
      reasonable times during normal business hours, at   such
      Lender s sole expense. In the event that any Lender shall receive any payments
      in reduction of the Obligations in an amount greater than its applicable Pro
      Rata Percentage in respect of indebtedness to Lenders evidenced hereby
      (including, without limitation amounts obtained by reason of setoffs), such
      Lender shall hold such excess    in       trust   
      (to the
      extent such Lender is lawfully able to do so) for Agent (on behalf of all other
      Lenders) and shall promptly remit to Agent such excess amount so that the
      amounts received by each Lender hereunder shall at all times be in accordance
      with its applicable Pro Rata Percentage. To the extent necessary for each
      Lender s actual percentage of all outstanding Revolving Credit Loans to equal
      its applicable Pro Rata Percentage, the Lender having a greater share of any
      payment(s) than its applicable Pro Rata Percentage shall acquire a participation
      in the applicable outstanding balances of the Pro Rata Shares of the other
      Lenders as determined by Agent. 

9.8      Indemnification   :
      To the
      extent not promptly paid by Borrower, each Lender hereby indemnifies Agent
      (and
      Issuing Bank with respect to Letters of Credit) ratably according to their
      respective Pro Rata Percentages, from and against any and all liabilities,
      obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs,
      expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed
      on, incurred by or asserted against Agent (or Issuing Bank, as the case may
      be)
      in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any other Loan
      Document or any action taken or omitted by Agent (or Issuing Bank, as the case
      may be) under or related to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the
      Loans, provided that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such
      liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits,
      costs, expenses or disbursements resulting solely from Agent s (or Issuing
      Bank s, as the case may be) gross negligence or willful misconduct. Agent

38 

shall have the right to deduct, from any amounts to be
    paid by Agent to
    any Lender hereunder, any amounts owing to Agent by such Lender by virtue of
    this paragraph.  

9.9      Expenses   :    

a.     All
      reasonable out-of-pocket costs and out-of- pocket expenses incurred by Agent
      in
      connection with the creation, amendment, administration, termination and
      enforcement of the Loans (including without limitation, audit expenses, counsel
      fees and expenditures to protect, preserve and defend Agent s and each Lender s
      rights and interest under the Loan Documents) shall, to the extent not
      reimbursed by Borrower, be shared and paid on demand by Lenders pro rata based
      on their applicable Pro Rata Percentage.  

b.     Agent
      may
      deduct from payments or distributions to be made to Lenders such funds as may
      be
      necessary to pay or reimburse Agent for such costs or expenses.  

9.10      No
      Reliance   :
      By
      execution of or joining in this Agreement, each Lender acknowledges that it
      has
      entered into this Agreement and the Loan Documents solely upon its own
      independent investigation and is not relying upon any information supplied
      by or
      any representations made by Agent. Each Lender shall continue to make its own
      analysis (including any credit analysis) and evaluation of Borrower. Agent
      makes
      no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to
      the
      financial condition or Property of Borrower; the accuracy, sufficiency or
      currency of any information concerning the financial condition, prospects or
      results of operations of Borrower; or for sufficiency, authenticity, legal
      effect, validity or enforceability of the Loan Documents. Agent assumes no
      responsibility or liability with respect to the collectibility of the
      Obligations or the performance by any Borrower of any obligation under the
      Loan
      Documents. 

9.11      Resignation
      of Agent   :
      Agent
      may resign at any time upon thirty (30) days prior written notice thereof to
      Lenders and Borrower. Upon any resignation, the Majority Lenders shall have
      the
      right to appoint a successor Agent. Upon the acceptance of the appointment
      as a
      successor Agent hereunder by such successor Agent, such successor Agent shall
      thereupon succeed to and become vested with all rights, powers, obligations
      and
      duties of the retiring Agent and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from
      its
      duties and obligations hereunder. 

9.12      Action
      on Instructions of Lenders   :
      With
      respect to any provision of this Agreement, or any issue arising there under,
      concerning which Agent is authorized to act or withhold action by direction
      of
      Lenders (or as the case may be under this Agreement, the Majority Lenders),
      Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in so acting, or in so refraining
      from acting, hereunder in accordance with written instructions signed by
      Lenders. Such instructions and any action taken or failure to act pursuant
      thereto shall be binding on all Lenders. 

9.13      Several
      Obligations   :
      The
      obligation of each Lender is several, and neither Agent nor any other Lender
      shall be responsible for any obligation or commitment hereunder of any other
      Lender. 

39 

SECTION
      10.     MISCELLANEOUS  

10.1      GOVERNING
      LAW   :
      THIS
      AGREEMENT, AND ALL MATERS ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, AND
      ALL
      RELATED AGREEMENTS AND DOCUMENTS, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN
      ACCORDANCE WITH THE SUBSTANTIVE LAWS COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA. THE
      PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT AND ALL OTHER AGREEMENTS AND DOCUMENTS REFERRED
      TO
      HEREIN ARE TO BE DEEMED SEVERABLE, AND THE INVALIDITY OR UNENFORCEABILITY OF
      ANY
      PROVISION SHALL NOT AFFECT OR IMPAIR THE REMAINING PROVISIONS WHICH SHALL
      CONTINUE IN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT.    

10.2      Integrated
      Agreement   :
      The
      Loan Documents, all related agreements, and this Agreement shall be construed
      as
      integrated and complementary of each other, and as augmenting and not
      restricting Lenders  and Agent s rights and remedies. If, after applying the
      foregoing, an inconsistency still exists, the provisions of this Agreement
      shall
      constitute an amendment thereto and shall control.    

10.3      Waiver   :
      No
      omission or delay by Agent or Lenders in exercising any right or power under
      this Agreement or any related agreements and documents will impair such right
      or
      power or be construed to be a waiver of any default, or Event of Default (unless
      such Event of Default has been waived in accordance with the terms of this
      Agreement), or an acquiescence therein, and any single or partial exercise
      of
      any such right or power will not preclude other or further exercise thereof
      or
      the exercise of any other right, and as to Borrower no waiver will be valid
      unless in writing and signed by Agent and then only to the extent
      specified.    

10.4      Indemnity   :
      (a)
      Borrower releases and shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Agent, Issuing
      Bank and Lenders, and their respective officers, employees and agents, of and
      from any claims, demands, liabilities, obligations, judgments, injuries, losses,
      damages and costs, and expenses (including without limitation, reasonable legal
      fees) resulting from (i) acts or conduct of Borrower under, pursuant, or related
      to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) Borrower's breach or
      violation of any representation, warranty, covenant or undertaking contained
      in
      this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, (iii) Borrower's failure to comply
      with any or all laws, statutes, ordinances, governmental rules, regulations
      or
      standards, whether federal, state or local, or court or administrative orders
      or
      decrees, (including without limitation securities laws, etc.) and all costs,
      expenses, fines, penalties or other damages resulting there from, and (iv)
      any
      claim by any other creditor of Borrower against any Lender arising out of any
      transaction whether hereunder or in any way related to the Loan Documents and
      all costs, expenses, fines, penalties or other damages resulting therefrom,
      unless resulting solely from acts or conduct of Agent, Issuing Bank, or Lenders
      constituting willful misconduct or gross negligence. The obligations of Borrower
      under this Section 10.4 shall survive the occurrence of any and all events
      whatsoever, including without limitation, payment of the Obligations or
      investigation by or knowledge of Lenders. 

(b)     Promptly
      after receipt by an indemnified party under subsection (a) above of notice
      of
      the commencement of any action by a third party, such indemnified party shall,
      if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party
      under
      such subsection,  

40 

notify
          the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof. The omission
          so
          to notify the indemnifying party shall relieve the indemnifying party from
          any
          liability which it may have to any indemnified party under such subsection
          only
          if the indemnifying party is unable to defend such actions as a result
          of such
          failure to so notify. In case any such action shall be brought against
          any
          indemnified party and it shall notify the indemnifying party of the commencement
          thereof, the indemnifying party shall be entitled to participate therein
          and, to
          the extent that it shall wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party
          similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory
          to
          such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the
          indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnified party), and, after notice
          from
          the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to
          assume
          the defense thereof, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to such
          indemnified party under such subsection for any legal expenses of other
          counsel
          or any other expenses, in each case subsequently incurred by such indemnified
          party, in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs
          of
          investigation. 

10.5      Time   :
      Whenever Borrower shall be required to make any payment, or perform any act,
      on
      a day which is not a Business Day, such payment may be made, or such act may
      be
      performed, on the next succeeding Business Day. Time is of the essence in the
      performance under all provisions of this Agreement and all related agreements
      and documents.    

10.6      Expenses
      of Agent and Lenders   :
      At
      Closing and from time to time thereafter, Borrower will pay upon demand of
      Agent
      all reasonable costs, fees and expenses of (i) Agent in connection with the
      analysis, negotiation, preparation, execution, administration, delivery and
      termination of this Agreement, and other Loan Documents and the documents and
      instruments referred to herein and therein, and any amendment, amendment and
      restatement, supplement, waiver or consent relating hereto or thereto, whether
      or not any such amendment, amendment and restatement, supplement, waiver or
      consent is executed or becomes effective, search costs, the reasonable fees,
      expenses and disbursements of counsel for Agent, any fees or expenses incurred
      by Agent under Section 6.11 for which Borrower is obligated thereunder, and
      reasonable charges of any expert consultant to Agent, and (ii) Agent, Issuing
      Bank, and each Lender in connection with the enforcement of Agent s, Issuing
      Bank s and Lenders  rights hereunder, or the collection of any payments owing
      from, Borrower under this Agreement and/or the other Loan Documents or the
      protection, preservation or defense of the rights of Agent, Issuing Bank and
      Lenders hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, including any refinancing
      or restructuring of the credit arrangements provided under this Agreement and
      other Loan Documents in the nature of a  work-out  or of any insolvency or
      bankruptcy proceedings, or otherwise (including the reasonable fees and
      disbursements of counsel for Agent, Issuing Bank and any Lender) (collectively,
      the  Expenses ). 

10.7      Brokerage   :
      This
      transaction was brought about and entered into by Agent, Lenders and Borrower
      acting as principals and without any brokers, agents or finders being the
      effective procuring cause hereof. Borrower represents that it has not committed
      Agent or any Lender to the payment of any brokerage fee, commission or charge
      in
      connection with this transaction. If any such claim is made on Agent or any
      Lender by any broker, finder or agent or other person allegedly engaged by
      Borrower, Borrower hereby indemnify, defend and save such party harmless against
      such claim and further will defend, with counsel satisfactory to Agent, any
      action or actions to recover on such claim, at Borrower's own cost and expense,
      including such party s reasonable counsel fees. Borrower further agrees that
      until any such claim or demand is adjudicated in such party s favor, the amount
      demanded shall be deemed a liability of Borrower under this
      Agreement.    

41 

10.8      Notices   :    

a.     Any
      notices or consents required or permitted by this Agreement shall be in writing
      and shall be deemed given if delivered in person or if sent by telecopy or
      by
      nationally recognized overnight courier, or via first class, Certified or
      Registered mail, postage prepaid, as follows, unless such address is changed
      by
      written notice hereunder:  

With
                copies to: 

Ledgwood,
                a professional corporation 

Attn:
                Shelle Weisbaum, Esquire 

If
      to
      Lenders:     to
      the
      addresses set forth on Schedule B. 

b.     Any
      notice sent by Agent, any Lender or Borrower by any of the above methods shall
      be deemed to be given when so received.  

c.     Agent
      shall be fully entitled to rely upon any facsimile transmission or other writing
      purported to be sent by any Authorized Officer (whether requesting an Advance
      or
      otherwise) as being genuine and authorized. 

10.9      Headings   :
      The
      headings of any paragraph or Section of this Agreement are for convenience
      only
      and shall not be used to interpret any provision of this Agreement.    

42 

10.10      Survival   :
      All
      warranties, representations, and covenants made by Borrower herein, or in any
      agreement referred to herein or on any certificate, document or other instrument
      delivered by it or on its behalf under this Agreement, shall be considered
      to
      have been relied upon by Agent and Lenders, and shall survive the delivery
      to
      Lenders of the Revolving Credit Notes, regardless of any investigation made
      by
      Lenders or on their behalf. All statements in any such certificate or other
      instrument prepared and/or delivered for the benefit of Agent and any and all
      Lenders shall constitute warranties and representations by Borrower hereunder.
      Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all covenants made by Borrower
      hereunder or under any other agreement or instrument shall be deemed continuing
      until all Obligations are satisfied in full. All indemnification obligations
      under this Agreement, including under Section 2.2, 5.5, 10.4 and 10.7, shall
      survive the termination of this Agreement and payment of the Obligations for
      a
      period of two (2) years. 

10.11      Amendments   : 

a.     Neither
      the amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan
      Document (other than Letter of Credit Documents), nor the consent to any
      departure by Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the
      same
      shall be in writing and signed by Majority Lenders (or by Agent at the direction
      of Majority Lenders), or if Lenders shall not be parties thereto, by the parties
      thereto and consented to by Majority Lenders, and each such amendment, waiver
      or
      consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific
      purpose for which given; provided that, no amendment, waiver, or consent shall
      do any of the following: (a) increase the Maximum Revolving Credit Amount
      (except as contemplated under Section 2.1(d)) or the Pro Rata Share of any
      Lender, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby,
      (b) except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, reduce the
      principal of, or interest on, any Revolving Credit Note or any Reimbursement
      Obligations or any fees hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender
      affected thereby, (c) postpone any date fixed for any payment with respect
      to principal of, or interest on, any Revolving Credit Note or any Reimbursement
      Obligations or any fees hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender
      affected thereby, (d) amend or waive this Section 10.11, or change the
      definition of Majority Lenders without the written consent of each Lender,
      or
      (e) release any Guarantor, without the written consent of each Lender; and
      provided further that, no amendment, waiver, or consent affecting the rights
      or
      duties of Agent or Issuing Bank under any Loan Document shall in any event
      be
      effective, unless in writing and signed by Agent and/or Issuing Bank, as
      applicable, in addition to Lenders required hereinabove to take such action.
      Notwithstanding any of the foregoing to the contrary, the consent of Borrower
      shall not be required for any amendment, modification or waiver of the
      provisions of Section 8 of this Agreement. In addition, Borrower and Lenders
      hereby authorize Agent to modify this Agreement by unilaterally amending or
      supplementing Schedule A or Schedule B from time to time in the manner requested
      by Borrower, Agent or any Lender in order to reflect any assignments or
      transfers of the Loans as provided for hereunder; provided however, that Agent
      shall promptly deliver a copy of any such modification to Borrower and each
      Lender. 

b.     After
      an
      acceleration of the Obligations, Agent shall have the right, with communication
      (to the extent reasonably practicable under the circumstances) with all Lenders,
      to exercise or refrain from exercising any and all right, remedies, privileges
      and options under the Loan Documents and available at law or in equity to
      protect and enforce the rights of the  

43 

Lenders
          and collect the Obligations, including, without limitation, instituting
          and
          pursuing all legal actions against Borrower or to collect the Obligations,
          or
          defending any and all actions brought by Borrower or other Person; or incurring
          Expenses or otherwise making expenditures to protect the Loans, the Collateral
          or Lenders  rights or remedies. 

c.     To
      the
      extent Agent is required to obtain or otherwise elects to seek the consent
      of
      Lenders to an action Agent desires to take, if any Lender fails to notify Agent,
      in writing, of its consent or dissent to any request of Agent hereunder within
      five (5) Business Days of such Lender s receipt of such request, such Lender
      shall be deemed to have given its consent thereto. 

10.12      Assignability   : 

a.     Borrower
      shall not have the right to assign or delegate its obligations and duties under
      this Agreement or any other Loan Documents or any interest therein except with
      the prior written consent of Agent and Lenders. 

b.     Notwithstanding
      subsection (c) of this Section 10.12, nothing herein shall restrict, prevent
      or
      prohibit any Lender from (i) pledging or granting a security interest in its
      Loans hereunder to a Federal Reserve Bank in support of borrowings made by
      such
      Lender from such Federal Reserve Bank, or (ii) granting assignments or
      participations in the Revolving Credit Loans hereunder to its parent and/or
      to
      any Affiliate of such Lender or to any other existing Lender or Affiliate.
      Any
      Lender may make, carry or transfer Loans at, to or for the account of, any
      of
      its branch offices or the office of an Affiliate of such Lender except to the
      extent such transfer would result in increased costs to Borrower. 

c.     Each
      Lender may, with the consent of Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably
      withheld or delayed) and (if no Event of Default is outstanding) with the
      consent of Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed),
      but without the consent of any other Lender, assign to one or more banks or
      other financial institutions all or a portion of its rights and obligations
      under this Agreement and the Revolving Credit Notes; provided that, (i) for
      each
      such assignment, the parties thereto shall execute and deliver to Agent, for
      its
      acceptance (if properly completed and executed in accordance with the terms
      hereof), and recording in its books and records, an assignment and acceptance
      in
      form and substance satisfactory to Agent ( Assignment and Acceptance ), together
      with any Revolving Credit Note subject to such assignment, and a processing
      and
      recordation fee of $3,500 payable to Agent for its own account payable by
      assignee, (ii) no such assignment shall be for less than a Pro Rata Share
      of $5,000,000 or, if less, the entire remaining Pro Rata Percentage of such
      Lender of the Revolving Credit Loan, and (iii) each such assignment shall be
      of
      a uniform, and not a varying, percentage of all rights and obligations under
      and
      in respect of both the Pro Rata Share of such Lender and all Revolving Credit
      Loans of such Lender. Upon such execution and delivery of the Assignment and
      Acceptance to Agent, from and after the date specified as the effective date
      in
      the Assignment and Acceptance (the  Acceptance Date ), (x) the assignee
      thereunder shall be a party hereto, and, to the extent that rights and
      obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment
      and
      Acceptance, such assignee shall have the rights and obligations of a Lender
      hereunder and (y) the assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights
      and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment
      and Acceptance, 

44 

relinquish
        its rights (other than any rights it may have pursuant to Section 9.4 which
        will
        survive) and be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and,
        in the
        case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion
        of an
        assigning Lender s rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender
        shall cease to be a party hereto). 

d.     Within
      5
      Business Days after demand by Agent, Borrower shall execute and deliver to
      Agent
      in exchange for any surrendered Revolving Credit Note (which the assigning
      Lender agrees to promptly deliver to Borrower) a new Revolving Credit Note
      to
      the order of the assignee in an amount equal to the Pro Rata Share assumed
      by it
      pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, and if the assigning Lender has
      retained a Pro Rata Share hereunder, a new Revolving Credit Note to the order
      of
      the assigning Lender in an amount equal to the Pro Rata Share retained by it
      hereunder. Such new Revolving Credit Note shall re-evidence the indebtedness
      outstanding under the old Revolving Credit Notes or Revolving Credit Notes,
      and
      shall be in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal
      amount of such surrendered Revolving Credit Note, shall be dated the Closing
      Date and shall otherwise be in substantially the form of the Revolving Credit
      Note subject to such assignments. 

e.     Each
      Lender may sell participations (without the consent of Agent, Borrower or any
      other Lender) to one or more parties in or to all or a portion of its rights
      and
      obligations under this Agreement (including without limitation, all or a portion
      of its Pro Rata Share, the Revolving Credit Loans owing to it and the Revolving
      Credit Note held by it); provided that, (i) such Lender s obligations under
      this Agreement (including without limitation, its Pro Rata Share to Borrower
      hereunder) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely
      responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations,
      (iii) such Lender shall remain the holder of any such Revolving Credit Note
      for
      all purposes of this Agreement, (iv) Borrower, Agent, and the other Lenders
      shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with
      such Lender s rights and obligations under this Agreement and (v) such Lender
      shall not transfer, grant, assign or sell any participation under which the
      participant shall have rights to approve any amendment or waiver of this
      Agreement except to the extent such amendment or waiver would (A) extend
      the final maturity date or the date for the payments of any installment of
      fees
      or principal or interest of any Revolving Credit Loan or Reimbursement
      Obligations in which such participant is participating, (B) reduce the amount
      of
      any installment of principal of the Loans or Letter of Credit reimbursement
      obligations in which such participant is participating, (C) except as
      otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, reduce the interest rate
      applicable to the Revolving Credit Loans or Reimbursement Obligations in which
      such participant is participating, or (D) except as otherwise expressly
      provided in this Agreement, reduce any Fees payable hereunder. 

f.     Each
      Lender agrees that, without the prior written consent of Borrower and Agent,
      it
      will not make any assignment or sell a participation hereunder in any manner
      or
      under any circumstances that would require registration or qualification of,
      or
      filings in respect of, any Revolving Credit Loan, Revolving Credit Note, or
      other Obligation under the securities laws of the United States of America
      or of
      any jurisdiction. 

g.     In
      connection with the efforts of any Lender to assign its rights or obligations
      or
      to participate interests, Agent or such Lender may disclose any information
      in
      its possession regarding Borrower, its finances and/or Property. 

45 

10.13      Successors
      and Assigns   :
      This
      Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors
      and
      assigns of each of the parties. Borrower may not transfer, assign or delegate
      any of its duties or obligations hereunder. 

10.14      Duplicate
      Originals   :
      Two or
      more duplicate originals of this Agreement may be signed by the parties, each
      of
      which shall be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and
      the same instrument. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, all of
      which counterparts taken together shall constitute one completed fully executed
      document. 

10.15      Modification   :
      No
      modification hereof or any agreement referred to herein shall be binding or
      enforceable unless in writing and signed by Borrower, Agent and Lenders except
      as provided in Section 10.11 hereof. Any modification in accordance with the
      terms hereof shall be binding on all parties hereto, whether or not each is
      a
      signatory thereto.    

10.16      Signatories   :
      Each
      individual signatory hereto represents and warrants that he is duly authorized
      to execute this Agree-ment on behalf of his principal and that he executes
      the
      Agreement in such capacity and not as a party.    

10.17      Third
      Parties   :
      No
      rights are intended to be created hereunder, or under any related agreements
      or
      documents for the benefit of any third party donee, creditor or incidental
      beneficiary of Borrower. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed
      as a delegation to Agent or any Lender of Borrower's duty of performance,
      including, without limitation, Borrower's duties under any account or contract
      with any other Person.    

10.18      Discharge
      of Taxes, Borrower's Obligations, Etc.   :
      Agent,
      in its sole discretion, shall have the right at any time, and from time to
      time,
      if Borrower fails to timely perform in accordance with this Agreement, to:
      (a)
      pay for the performance of any of Borrower's Obligations hereunder, and (b)
      discharge taxes or Liens, at any time levied or placed on any of Borrower's
      Property in violation of this Agreement unless such entity is in good faith
      with
      due diligence by appropriate proceedings contesting such taxes or Liens and
      maintaining proper reserves therefore in accordance with GAAP. Expenses and
      advances shall be added to the Revolving Credit, bear interest at the same
      rate
      applied to the Revolving Credit, until reimbursed to Agent. Such payments and
      advances made by Agent shall not be construed as a waiver by Agent or Lenders
      of
      an Event of Default under this Agreement.    

10.19      Withholding
      and Other Tax Liabilities   :
      Each
      Lender shall have the right to refuse to make any Advances from time to time
      unless Borrower shall, at Agent s request, have given to Agent evidence,
      reasonably satisfactory to Agent, it has properly deposited or paid, as required
      by law, all withholding taxes and all federal, state, city, county or other
      taxes due up to and including the date of the requested Advance. Copies of
      deposit slips showing payment shall likewise constitute satisfactory evidence
      for such purpose. In the event that any lien, assessment or tax liability
      against Borrower, or any of them, shall arise in favor of any taxing authority,
      whether or not notice thereof shall be filed or recorded as may be required
      by
      law, Agent shall have the right (but shall not be obligated, nor shall Agent
      or
      any Lender hereby assume the duty) to pay any such lien, assessment or tax
      liability by virtue of which such charge shall have arisen; provided, however,
      that Agent shall not pay any such tax, assessment or lien if the amount,
      applicability or validity thereof is being contested in good faith and by
      appropriate proceedings    

46 

by
        such
        entity. In order to pay any such lien, assessment or tax liability, Agent
        shall
        not be obliged to wait until said lien, assessment or tax liability is filed
        before taking such action as hereinabove set forth. Any sum or sums which
        Agent
        (shared ratably by Lenders) shall have paid for the discharge of any such
        lien
        shall be added to the Revolving Credit and shall be paid by Borrower to Agent
        with interest thereon, upon demand, and Agent shall be subrogated to all
        rights
        of such taxing authority against Borrower.    

10.20      Consent
      to Jurisdiction   :
      Borrower, Agent, Issuing Bank and each Lender hereby irrevocably consent to
      the
      non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
      or
      the United States District Court for Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in any and
      all
      actions and proceedings whether arising hereunder or under any other agreement
      or undertaking. Borrower waives any objection which Borrower may have based
      upon
      lack of personal jurisdiction, improper venue or    forum
      non conveniens   .
      Borrower irrevocably agrees to service of process by certified mail, return
      receipt requested to the address of the appropriate party set forth
      herein. 

10.21      Waiver
      of Jury Trial   :
      BORROWER, AGENT, ISSUING BANK AND EACH LENDER HEREBY WAIVE ANY AND ALL RIGHTS
      IT
      MAY HAVE TO A JURY TRIAL IN CONNECTION WITH ANY LITIGATION, PROCEEDING OR
      COUNTERCLAIM ARISING WITH RESPECT TO RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES
      HERETO OR UNDER THE LOAN DOCUMENTS OR WITH RESPECT TO ANY CLAIMS ARISING OUT
      OF
      ANY DISCUSSIONS, NEGOTIATIONS OR COMMUNICATIONS INVOLVING OR RELATED TO ANY
      PROPOSED RENEWAL, EXTENSION, AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, RESTRUCTURE, FORBEARANCE,
      WORKOUT, OR ENFORCEMENT OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THE LOAN
      DOCUMENTS. 

47 

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned parties have executed this Agreement the day
      and year first above written. 

BORROWER:  

RESOURCE
                AMERICA, INC.  

By:
                     _____________________________ 

Name:     _____________________________ 

Title:     _____________________________ 

AGENT:  

COMMERCE
                BANK, N.A., as Agent  

By:
                     _____________________________ 

Name:     _____________________________ 

Title:     _____________________________ 

LENDERS:  

COMMERCE
                BANK, N.A., as Lender  

By:
                     _____________________________ 

Name:     _____________________________ 

Title:     _____________________________ 

48 

Exhibit
      A - Form of Authorization Certificate  

Authorization
      Certificate   

Date:
      _______________ 

Commerce
      Bank, N.A. 

      Attn:
      Gerard Grady 

      1701
      Route 70 East 

      Cherry
      Hill, NJ 08034 

Dear
      Jerry: 

The
      following individuals are authorized to request loan advances against Resource
      America, Inc. s ("Borrower") Revolving Credit, and transfer funds from any of
      the Borrower s accounts per written instructions received via fax: 

Authorized
      Person             Title                Signature  

1.     _________________     
      _____________________ _______________________ 

2.     _________________     
      _____________________ _______________________ 

3.     _________________     
      _____________________ _______________________ 

Resource
      America, Inc.  

By   :   _____________________________________ 

      Name: 

      Title: 

Accepted: 

Commerce
      Bank, N.A.  

By:                      

      Name: 

      Title: 

Exhibit
      B - Form of Borrowing     Request  

Form
      of Borrowing Request   

To:     COMMERCE
      BANK, N.A  .
      ("Agent") 

        Attn:
      Gerard Grady 

        1701
      Route 70 East 

        Cherry
      Hill, NJ 08034  

Resource
      America, Inc. ( Borrower ) hereby requests an Advance in the amount of
      $___________ pursuant to Section 2.3 of that certain Loan Agreement, by and
      among Agent, Borrower, and Lenders dated August __, 2006 (the "Loan
      Agreement"). Borrower hereby requests that such Advance be a (select one) Prime
      Rate Loan/LIBOR Rate Loan. If a LIBOR Rate Loan, then the requested LIBOR
      Interest Period is ______________. Capitalized terms used in this Borrowing
      Request, unless otherwise defined herein, shall have the meaning set forth
      in
      the Loan Agreement. 

Borrower
      hereby represent and warrant to Lenders as follows: 

a.     There
      exists no Default or Event of Default under the Loan Agreement. 

b.     All
      representations, warranties and covenants made in the Loan Agreement are true
      and correct as of the date hereof. 

c.     The
      aggregate principal amount of all Advances outstanding under the Revolving
      Credit, after giving effect to this request are $_____________. 

d.     The
      number of LIBOR Rate Loans after giving effect to this Advance request will
      be
      ____ (may not exceed four). 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

By:                      

                  Name: 

                  Title: 

Exhibit
      C - Form of Borrowing Base Certificate  

BORROWING
      BASE CERTIFICATE #___________ 

Dated:_________________ 

To
      induce
      Lenders, as defined in the Loan Agreement (as defined below), to make Advances
      under the Revolving Credit established pursuant to a Loan Agreement
      dated August ___, 2006, among Commerce Bank, N.A., as agent and issuing
      bank, Borrower and Lenders, and any amendments thereto (herein called the
      "Agreement"), Borrower hereby certifies, as of the date above, as follows
      (capitalized terms, used without further definition herein, shall have the
      meanings set forth in the Loan Agreement): 

1.     The
      Borrowing Base, determined in accordance with the Agreement, is as
      follows: 

a.     Market
      value of Collateral             
  $___________ 

b.     80%
      of
      Item
      (a)                                                                                     
  $       

c.     Maximum
      Revolving Credit
      Amount                                                 
  $       

d.       Borrowing
      Base - lesser of item (b) or
      (c)                                      
    $        

e.     Current
      outstanding amount of Advances 

      (Prior
      to
      requested
      Advance)                                                 
  $       

f.     Plus:
      Advance
      Request                                                                       
  $ 

g.     Sum
      of
      item (e) plus
      (f)                                                                        
  $       

h.       Excess
      availability
      /(overadvance)*                                                 
    $        

           *Calculated
      by the Borrowing Base (d)  

       minus
      item (g).  

(2)     Borrower
      hereby certifies that there is no Default or Event of Default outstanding under
      the Agreement. 

(3)     Borrower
      hereby certifies that the information contained herein is true and
      correct. 

Resource
      America, Inc. 

By:_______________________________ 

                Name: 

                Title: 

Exhibit
      D - Form of Compliance Certificate  

____________,
      200__ 

      Commerce
      Bank, N.A. 

      Attn:
      Gerard Grady 

      1701
      Route 70 East 

      Cherry
      Hill, NJ 08034 

The
      undersigned, an Authorized Officer of Resource America, Inc. ("Borrower"),
      gives
      this certificate to Commerce Bank, N.A. ("Agent"), in accordance with the
      requirements of Section 6.10 of that certain Loan Agreement dated August
      ___, 2006, by and among Agent, Borrower, and Lenders ("Loan Agreement").
      Capitalized terms used in this Certificate, unless otherwise defined herein,
      shall have the meanings set forth in the Loan Agreement. 

1.     Based
      upon my review of the consolidated balance sheets and statements of income
      of
      Borrower for the fiscal period ending _____________, 2006, copies of which
      are
      attached hereto, I hereby certify that: 

a.     Borrower's
      Net Worth is                ;  

b.     Borrower's
      Senior Debt to Net Worth Ratio is         ; 

Attached
      as Schedule "A" are the details underlying such financial covenant
      calculations. 

2.     No
      Default exists on the date hereof, other than: ____________________ [if none,
      so
      state]; and 

3.     No
      Event
      of Default exists on the date hereof, other than: __________________ [if none,
      so state]. 

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC. 

By:                

                  Name: 

                  Title: 

SCHEDULE
      A  

SCHEDULE
      B  

Commerce
      Bank, N.A. 

      1701
      Route 70 East 

      Cherry
      Hill, NJ 08034 

      Attn:     Mr.
      Gerard Grady 

      Telecopy:
      (856) 751-6884 

</EX-10.15>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 ex21_1.htm
 EX 2.1 SUBSIDIARIES OF RESOURCE AMERICA, INC.

Ex 2.1 Subsidiaries of Resource America, Inc.

EXHIBIT
      21.1  

RESOURCE
      AMERICA, INC.  

       LIST
      OF SUBSIDIARIES  

Resource
      Financial Fund Management, Inc. 

      Trapeza
      Capital Management, LLC 

      Trapeza
      Manager, Inc. 

      Trapeza
      Funding, LLC 

      Trapeza
      Funding II, LLC   )  

      Trapeza
      Funding III, LLC 

      Trapeza
      Funding IV, LLC 

      Trapeza
      Funding V, LLC 

      Trapeza
      TPS, LLC  

      Trapeza
      Management Group, LLC 

      Structured
      Finance Fund GP, LLC 

      Structured
      Finance Management, LLC 

      Ischus
      Capital Management, LLC 

      Apidos
      Capital Management, LLC 

      Resource
      Capital Manager, Inc. 

      Resource
      Financial Institutions Group, Inc. 

      Axios
      Capital Management, LLC 

      Resource
      Credit Partners, L.P. 

      Resource
      Credit Partners GP, Inc. 

      Resource
      Credit Management, LLC 

      RAI
      Ventures, Inc. 

      Chadwick
      Securities, Inc. 

      Resource
      Europe Management Ltd. 

      Resource
      Capital Investor, Inc. 

      Resource
      Leasing, Inc. 

      FLI
      Holdings, Inc. 

      LEAF
      Financial Corporation 

      LEAF
      Capital Management, Inc. 

      LEAF
      Asset Management, LLC 

      LEAF
      Asset Management, Inc. 

      Lease
      Equity Appreciation Fund I L.P. 

      LEAF
      Fund
      I, LLC 

      Lease
      Equity Appreciation Fund II, L.P. 

      LEAF
      Fund
      II, LLC 

      LEAF
      Funding, Inc. 

      LEAF
      Institutional Direct Management, LLC 

      Resource
      Real Estate Holdings, Inc. 

      Resource
      Real Estate, Inc. 

      Resource
      Real Estate Funding, Inc. 

      Resource
      Capital Partners, Inc. 

      Resource
      Real Estate Management, LLC 

      SR
      Real
      Estate Partners, LLC 

      RCP
      Nittany Pointe Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Chinoe Creek Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Fountains GP, Inc. 

      RCP
      Portland Courtyard Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Albuquerque Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Avalon Manager, Inc.    

RCP
      Falls
      at Duraleigh Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Sage
      Canyon Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Cuestas Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Holdco I Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Reserves Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Foxglove Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Santa
      Fe Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Regents Center Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Highland Lodge Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Reserves Holdings Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Grove
      Manager, LLC 

      RCP
      Howell Bridge Manager, Inc. 

      RCP
      Howell Bridge Holdings, LLC 

      RRE
      Bentley Place Holdings, LLC 

      RRE
      Bentley Place TIC, LLC 

      RRE
      Reserves TIC, LLC 

      RRE
      Reserves Holdings, LLC 

      RRE
      Highland Lodge TIC, LLC 

      RCP
      Reserves Holdco I Manager, Inc. 

      RRE
      Regents Center TIC, LLC 

      RRE
      Grove
      Holdings, L.P. 

      RRE
      Regents Center Holdings, LLC 

      Resource
      RSI Phase I, LLC 

      Resource
      RSI Phase II, LLC 

      Resource
      Asset Management, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties II, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties IV, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties VI, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties VIII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XIV, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XV, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XVII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XVIII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XX, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXIII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXIV, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXV, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXVI, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXVII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXVIII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXIX, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXX, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXXI, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXXII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXXIII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXXIV, Inc. 

      Deerfield
      RPI, LLC 

      Resource
      Properties XXXV, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXXVI, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XXXVIII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XL, Inc. 

Resource
      Properties XLI, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XLII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XLIV, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XLVI, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XLVII, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties XLIX, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties 50, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties 51, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties 52, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties 53, Inc. 

      Resource
      Properties 54, Inc. 

      CP/GP,
      Inc. 

      Chesterfield
      Mortgage Investors, Inc. 

      RAI
      Financial, Inc. 

      Resource
      Commercial Mortgages, Inc. 

      Resource
      Financial Services, Inc. 

      Resource
      Housing Investors I, Inc. 

      Resource
      Housing Investors II, Inc. 

      Resource
      Housing Investors III, Inc. 

       Resource
      Housing Investors IV, Inc.  

      Resource
      Programs, Inc. 

      RCP
      Financials, LLC 

      RCP
      Partners, L.P. 

      Resource
      Rittenhouse, Inc. 

      WS
      Mortgage Acquisition Corporation 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 ex23_1.htm
 EX 23.1 CONSENT OF GRANT THORNTON LLP

Ex 23.1 Consent of Grant Thornton LLP

Exhibit
      23.1  

CONSENT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We
      have
      issued our reports dated December 8, 2006, accompanying the consolidated
      financial statements and schedules and management's assessment of the
      effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
      Annual Report of Resource America, Inc. on Form 10-K for the year ended
  September
      30, 2006. We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference of said reports
      in
      the Registration Statement of Resource America, Inc. on Forms S-8 (File No.
      333126344, effective July 1, 2005, File No. 333105615, effective May 28, 2003,
      File Nos. 33398505 and 33398507, effective August 22, 2002, File No. 33381420,
      effective January 25, 2002 and File No. 33337416, effective May 19,
      2000). 

/s/
      GRANT
      THORNTON LLP 

Cleveland,
      Ohio 

      December
      8, 2006 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 ex31_1.htm
 CERTIFICATION 31.1

Certification 31.1

EXHIBIT
      31.1   

CERTIFICATION  

I,
      Jonathan Z. Cohen, certify that: 

2)    
             
                Based
                on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
                of a
                material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
                the
                statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
                were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
                report;  

3)    
             
                Based
                on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
                included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
                the
                financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
                registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4)    
             
                The
                registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
                establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
                defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
                control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
                13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a)    
             
                Designed
                such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
                controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
                ensure
                that material information relating to the registrant, including its
                consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
                entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
                being
                prepared;  

b)    
             
                Designed
                such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
                internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
                supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
                the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
                financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
                generally accepted accounting
                principles; 

c)    
             
                Evaluated
                the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
                and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
                of
                the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
                covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d)    
             
                Disclosed
                in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
                financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
                fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case
                of an
                annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
                to
                materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
                reporting; and  

5)    
             
                The
                registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based
                on our
                most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
                to
                the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
                board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)    
             
                All
                significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
                operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
                reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
                record,
                process, summarize and report financial information; and

b)    
             
                Any
                fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
                employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
                control
                over financial reporting.  

Date:  
               December
              14, 2006   
              By:    
              /s/ Jonathan
              Z. Cohen  

Jonathan
                Z. Cohen 

Chief
                Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 ex31_2.htm
 CERTIFICATION 31.2

Certification 31.2

EXHIBIT
      31.2   

CERTIFICATION  

I,
      Steven
      J. Kessler, certify that: 

2)    
             
                Based
                on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
                of a
                material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
                the
                statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
                were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
                report;  

3)    
             
                Based
                on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
                included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
                the
                financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
                registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4)    
             
                The
                registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
                establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
                defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
                control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
                13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a)    
             
                Designed
                such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
                controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
                ensure
                that material information relating to the registrant, including its
                consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
                entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
                being
                prepared;  

b)    
             
                Designed
                such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
                internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
                supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
                the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
                financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
                generally accepted accounting
                principles; 

c)    
             
                Evaluated
                the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
                and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
                of
                the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
                covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d)    
             
                Disclosed
                in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
                financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
                fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case
                of an
                annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
                to
                materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
                reporting; and  

5)    
             
                The
                registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based
                on our
                most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
                to
                the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
                board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)    
             
                All
                significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
                operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
                reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
                record,
                process, summarize and report financial information; and

b)    
             
                Any
                fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
                employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
                control
                over financial reporting.  

Date: 
 December
              14, 2006   
              By:    
              /s/  Steven
              J. Kessler   

Steven
                J. Kessler 

Executive
                Vice President and Chief Financial
                Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 ex32_1.htm
 CERTIFICATION 32.1

Certification 32.1

EXHIBIT
      32.1  

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO  

       18
      U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  

       AS
      ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  

       SECTION
      906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In
      connection with the Annual Report of Resource America, Inc. (the "Company")
      on
      Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 as filed with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I,
      Jonathan Z. Cohen, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant
      to
      18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
      Act of 2002, that: 

(1)    
             
                The
                Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d)
                of
                the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
                and 

(2)    
             
                The
                information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
                respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
                Company. 

Date:  December
              14, 2006   
              By:    
              /s/ Jonathan
              Z. Cohen  

Jonathan
                Z. Cohen 

Chief
                Executive Officer 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 ex32_2.htm
 CERTIFICATION 32.2

Certification 32.2

EXHIBIT
      32.2     

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO  

       18
      U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  

       AS
      ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  

       SECTION
      906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In
      connection with the Annual Report of Resource America, Inc. (the "Company")
      on
      Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 as filed with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Steven
      J. Kessler, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
      certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section
      906
      of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

(1)    
             
                The
                Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d)
                of
                the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
                and 

(2)    
             
                The
                information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
                respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
                Company. 

Date:  December
              14, 2006   
              By:    
              /s/ Steven
              J.
              Kessler  

Steven
                J. Kessler 

Executive
                Vice President and Chief Financial
                Officer 

</EX-32.2>

