<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061208_10-K_edgar_data_52988_0001193125-06-248847_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2185952</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>852777</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>29964</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1050488</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>82</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-06-248847.hdr.sgml : 20061208
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061207194235
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-06-248847
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061208
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061207

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000052988
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	HEAVY CONSTRUCTION OTHER THAN BUILDING CONST - CONTRACTORS [1600]
		IRS NUMBER:				954081636
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07463
		FILM NUMBER:		061263916

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1111 S ARROYO PARKWAY
		CITY:			PASADENA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			91105-3063
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6265783500

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CYx/Csw46GeEGdOlO8rJb0nB66+1884VYp4UUfEWr1JA167obDA2aDNRG7dhU/CN
 MfRKpG6Pol4Q4+s4kki/Kw==

 0001193125-06-248847.txt : 20061208

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

    2006         UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549                     FORM 10-K                     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO        SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
         
                  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.          
                  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:          

Title of Each Class     
     
     Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered      
 
    Common Stock, $1 par value   
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
           Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(g) of the Act: None             Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act:           Yes             No            Indicate by
a check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.             Yes           No            Indicate by check-mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.           Yes             No            Indicate by check-mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                     Indicate by check-mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act. (Check One):            Large accelerated
filer  -                     Accelerated filer  -                       Non-accelerated
filer  -                       Indicate by check-mark whether the registrant is
a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act)             Yes           No                   There were 59,062,634 shares of common stock outstanding as of November 29, 2006. The aggregate market value of the registrant s
common equity held by non-affiliates was approximately $5.1 billion as of March 31, 2006, based upon the last reported sales price on the New York Stock Exchange on that date.             DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE             Part III   Portions of the Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement to be issued in connection with its 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.    

Table of Contents  

    JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.              Fiscal 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K          
   
  Table of Contents          

Item     

Page No.      

Part I    

Item 1.   

Business    
      
  2   
 
    Item 1A.   

Risk Factors    
      
  17   
 
    Item 1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  21   
 
    Item 2.   

Properties    
      
  21   
 
    Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings    
      
  22   
 
    Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  22   

Part II    

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
      
  23   
 
    Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data    
      
  24   
 
    Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  25   
 
    Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  36   
 
    Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  37   
 
    Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants On Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  37   
 
    Item 9A.   

Controls and Procedures    
      
  37   
 
    Item 9B.   

Other Information    
      
  38   

Part III    

Item 10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant    
      
  39   
 
    Item 11.   

Executive Compensation    
      
  40   
 
    Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  40   
 
    Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions    
      
  40   
 
    Item 14.   

Principal Accounting Fees and Services    
      
  40   

Part IV    

Item 15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  41   

Signatures    
      
  43   
       
   Page 1   

Table of Contents  

PART I              FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
            In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form
10-K contains forward-looking statements that are not based on historical fact. When used in this report, words such as  expects ,  anticipates ,  believes ,  seeks ,  estimates ,  plans ,
 intends , and similar words are intended in part to identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Although such statements are based on management s current estimates
and expectations, and currently available competitive, financial, and economic data, forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from what may be
inferred from the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are listed and discussed in Item 1A  Risk Factors . That list is not all-inclusive, and we undertake no obligation to
release publicly any revisions or updates to any forward-looking statements that are contained in this document. We encourage you to read carefully the risk factors described in other documents we file from time to time with the United States
Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).         

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS                 General        We are one of the largest professional services firms in the United States. Our business focuses exclusively on
providing a broad range of technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. We provide project services (which include engineering, design, architectural, and
similar services); process, scientific, and systems consulting services; operations and maintenance services; and construction services (which include direct-hire construction and construction management services). We provide our services through
offices and subsidiaries located principally in North America, Europe, Asia, Scandinavia, and Australia.            We concentrate our services on selected industry groups and markets including oil and gas exploration, production, and refining; programs for various federal
governments; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; chemicals and polymers; buildings (which includes projects in the fields of health care and education as well as civic, governmental, and other buildings); infrastructure; technology and manufacturing;
and pulp and paper, among others.            Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. was
incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on January 8, 1987. On March 4, 1987, it succeeded by merger to the business and assets of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., a California corporation that, in 1974, had succeeded to a
business organized originally by our founder, Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs, in 1947. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to  Jacobs  or the  Registrant  are to Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and its
predecessors, and references to the  Company ,  we ,  us  or  our  are to both Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our common stock has been publicly held since 1970 and is
currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange.              Business Strategy
               General        There are four major components of our business strategy: a relationship-based approach to client interactions; safety; a strong focus on cost control; and an
organizational structure that facilitates efficient project management and execution. Acquisitions play an important role in our business strategy as they allow us to expand on existing client relationships as well as develop new ones. Acquisitions
also allow us the opportunity to leverage our cost structure across geographic areas.         
   Page 2   

Table of Contents  

     Relationship-Based Business Model        Our relationship-based business model is central to our sustained growth and profitability. We aggressively pursue the development of long-term affiliations and
alliances with our clients. By working      as a partner with our clients on their capital programs, we increase our understanding of their overall business needs as well
as the unique technical requirements of their projects. This allows us the opportunity to provide a greater range of services to our clients. We market all of our services to clients in connection with their projects where the scope of work required
is within our expertise. By integrating and bundling our services (i.e., providing design, engineering, and construction services on the same project), we can price contracts more competitively and enhance overall profitability while delivering
superior value to our clients. Our relationship-based business model also helps us more fully understand the risks inherent in the projects, which in turn allows us to better manage those risks. Our approach also provides us with opportunities to
market those services our clients will need in the post start-up and commissioning phases of a plant, such as operations and maintenance services. This model, however, does not preclude us from undertaking discrete projects that do not significantly
conflict with our business strategy. We will accept and perform discrete projects for our clients if we can negotiate acceptable pricing and other contract terms and conditions.                    Safety        Key to the success of our business strategy is our uncompromising focus on safety. Maintaining safe work environments has long been a mutual and unequivocal
condition of the relationship we have with our employees. It is also a paramount issue in our dealings with our clients, and our safety program is a fundamental element of our overall approach to risk management. A safe work environment is critical
to our long-term success and growth. We maintain a centralized quality and safety group to help ensure that the services we provide are delivered safely and in accordance with standard work processes. Unsafe job sites and office environments
increase employee turnover, increase the cost of a project to our clients, expose us to types and levels of risk that are fundamentally unacceptable, and raise our operating costs as well. Safe job sites and office environments, on the other hand,
benefit our clients, promote employee morale, and enhance the long-term relationships we have with our clients, employees, and business partners.              Cost Control        Another important component of our
business strategy is our continual emphasis on cost control. As the global economy expands and companies providing technical, professional, and construction services are required to compete against each other across geographic boundaries, the
company that can provide its clients with cost efficient solutions to their project needs has the advantage. Our attention to cost control throughout every level of our organization allows us to deliver superior technical, professional, and
construction services safely, efficiently, and within the cost and time parameters our clients require.              Organizational Structure        Our organizational
structure and integrated system for delivering our services is another key component of our business strategy. Our operating units generally use a matrix organizational structure whereby our project management functions are supported by the various
technical engineering, design, and construction disciplines that are necessary to effectively execute long-term engineering and construction contracts. Crucial functions, such as project controls and procurement, are local to each of our major
offices and serve operations by providing specialized services required by projects. In addition, we actively employ a boundaryless approach to the way we serve our clients. Our operating groups do not compete against each other for contracts.
Rather, our organizational structure encourages our operating groups to work cohesively while simultaneously helping to reduce costs and promote an efficient delivery system for all of our services. Our multidomestic geographic  
       
   Page 3   

Table of Contents  

strategy supports our approach by allowing each office to compete in the local market place while supporting the needs of global clients in conjunction with our global
network of offices.              The Role of Acquisitions in Our Business Strategy 
      Our relationship-based business model is a significant driver of our acquisition strategy. When we review potential acquisition targets, we are
conscious of the effect the acquisition may have on our client base. We favor acquisitions that allow us to expand or enhance the range of services we provide our clients, and/or gain access to new geographic areas in which our clients either
already operate or plan to expand. By expanding into new geographic areas and adding to our existing technical and project management capabilities, we strive to position ourselves as a preferred, single-source provider of technical, professional,
and construction services to our major clients. The following is a brief description of some of our key mergers and acquisitions over the past five years:         

In August 2004, we acquired the Babtie Group Limited (the  Babtie Group ). The Babtie Group is a leading provider of technical and professional services to clients in the
infrastructure, facilities, environmental, defense, and governmental outsourcing markets, among others. Headquartered in Scotland, the Babtie Group employs approximately 3,500 people in offices located throughout the United Kingdom and Asia, with
smaller operations in India and the Czech Republic. The primary purpose for acquiring the Babtie Group was to expand our infrastructure and facilities business in the United Kingdom.           

In October 2001, we acquired McDermott Engineers   Constructors (Canada) Limited (including Delta Catalytic and Delta Hudson Engineering) (collectively,  Delta ). Delta
provides engineering, construction, and maintenance services to various industries including upstream oil and gas, petroleum refining, petrochemicals, and chemicals. Delta employed approximately 3,500 employees conducting operations located
primarily in Canada.           

In May 2001, we purchased from LawGibb Group Inc. substantially all of its international engineering and construction management business (the  GIBB businesses ). Headquartered in
the United Kingdom, the GIBB businesses are a leading international engineering consultancy firm that provides technical, professional, and construction management services in the fields of transportation, civil and structural engineering, water and
wastewater, environmental and geotechnical services, infrastructure, building and building services, information technology, defense, finance, and commerce. The GIBB businesses employed approximately 900 employees conducting operations located
primarily in the United Kingdom, certain other European countries, and the Middle East.           

In February 2001, we finalized the second phase of a two-part transaction to acquire from Stork N.V., the Netherlands, all of its engineering and contracting business (the  Stork E C
businesses ). We completed the first phase of the transaction ( Stork Phase I ) in February 2000. The Stork Phase I entities employed approximately 1,500 technical professional staff in offices located principally in Belgium, Germany,
Southeast Asia, and certain locations in the Netherlands. The second phase of the transaction ( Stork Phase II ) involved Stork N.V. s engineering and construction management operations in the Netherlands and the Middle East. The
Stork Phase II entities employed approximately 500 technical professional staff. The Stork E C businesses, headquartered in Leiden, the Netherlands, provide a broad range of engineering and construction management services to clients in the
upstream oil and gas, petroleum refining, chemicals, basic resources, and facilities industries, among others.                Services Provided        Our business is to provide technical,
professional, and construction services. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories: project services (which includes engineering, design,  
       
   Page 4   

Table of Contents  

architectural, and similar services); construction services; operations and maintenance services; and process, scientific, and systems consulting services. The scope
of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services, which clients often require in the very early stages of a project, to complete, single-responsibility, design-build-operate contracts.
           The following table sets forth our revenues from each of our four
service categories for each of the five fiscal years ended September 30 (in thousands of dollars):         
          Certain amounts for fiscal years
2003 and 2002 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.              Project Services        We employ all of the engineering, design, architectural, and related disciplines necessary to design and
engineer modern process plants (including projects for clients in the chemicals and polymers, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, oil   gas, refining, food and consumer products, and basic resources industries); buildings (including
facilities in the health care, education, and criminal justice markets, as well as other buildings for clients in the private sector); infrastructure projects (including highways, roads, bridges, and other transportation systems, and wastewater
treatment and similar facilities); technology and manufacturing facilities (for clients in the aerospace, automotive, defense, semiconductor, and electronics industries); pulp and paper plants; and other facilities. We also employ many of the
requisite scientific, technical, and program management capabilities necessary to provide program integration, testing, and evaluation services for clients in the defense and aerospace industries; for the United States Department of Defense (DOD) in
support of information systems for weapons acquisition centers; and for various agencies of the United States federal government in support of environmental programs.            We are capable of providing our clients with a variety of value engineering services including  safety in design . Through
safety in design we integrate best practices, hazard analysis, and risk assessment methods early in the design phase of projects, taking those steps necessary to eliminate or mitigate injury and damage during the construction, start-up, testing and
commissioning, and operations phases of a project.            In the area of
construction management, we provide our clients with a wide range of services as an agent for our clients. We may act as the program director, whereby we oversee, on the owner s behalf, the complete planning, design, and construction phases of
the project. Alternatively, our services may be limited to providing construction consulting.            Also included in the category of  Project Services  are construction related services (such as cost engineering, planning, scheduling, procurement, estimating, project accounting, and quality and safety) necessary to
support our engineering, design, construction, construction and program management, operations and maintenance, and consulting services.         
   Page 5   

Table of Contents  

     Construction        We
provide traditional field construction services to private and public sector clients in virtually all of the industries to which we provide project services. In the area of environmental remediation and      restoration, we provide environmental remedial construction services for a variety of public and private sector clients. We also provide many of our clients with modular
construction technology. Our modular construction technology is an advanced form of off-site engineering and design, fabrication, assembly, and field erection. A modular approach provides clients with an alternative approach to traditional methods
of engineering and construction, which can compress and shorten the construction schedule.            Historically, our field construction activities have focused primarily on those construction projects for which we perform much of the related engineering and design work. By focusing our construction efforts on such projects,
we minimize the risks associated with constructing complex plants and facilities based on designs prepared by third parties. The financial risk to us of constructing complex plants and facilities based on designs prepared by third parties may be
particularly significant on fixed-price contracts; therefore, we generally avoid this type of project. However, we continue to pursue construction-only projects where we can negotiate pricing and other acceptable contract terms.              Operations and Maintenance ( O M )        O M generally refers to all of the tasks required to operate and maintain large, complex facilities on behalf of clients. In such situations, we can provide key
management and support services over all of the facility s operations, including subcontractors and other on-site personnel. Within the environmental area, O M often includes engineering and technical support services as well as program
management services necessary to remediate contaminated sites. Within the aerospace and defense areas, O M often requires us to provide the management and technical support services necessary to operate and maintain engine test facilities,
weapons integration, and high-tech simulation and verification centers. Such O M contracts also frequently require us to provide facilities management and maintenance services; utilities operations and maintenance services; property management
and disposition service; and construction support services.            This
category also includes plant maintenance services, which generally involves the tasks required to keep a process plant (typically a refinery or chemical plant) in day-to-day operation. This would include the repair and replacement of pumps, piping,
heat exchangers, and other equipment as well as  turnaround  work, which involves major refurbishment that can only be performed when the plant is shut down. Since shutdowns are expensive to the owners of the plant, turnaround work often
requires maximizing the number of skilled craft personnel that can work efficiently on a project on a 24-hours-per-day, seven-days-per-week basis. We use sophisticated computer scheduling and programming to complete turnaround projects quickly, and
we maintain contact with a large pool of skilled craft personnel we can hire as needed on maintenance and turnaround projects.            Although the gross profit margins that we realize from O M services are generally lower than those associated with the other services we provide, the costs to
support maintenance activities are also generally lower. Furthermore, we view O M contracts as presenting a lower financial risk to the Company as compared to some of the other services we provides because O M contracts are normally
cost-reimbursable in nature. Additionally, although engineering and construction projects may be of a short-term nature, O M services often result in long-term relationships with clients. For example, we have been providing maintenance services
at several major process plants for over 30 years. This aspect of maintenance services greatly reduces the selling costs in respect of such services.              Process, Scientific and Systems Consulting        We employ all of the
professional and technical expertise necessary to provide a broad range of consulting services, including: performing pricing studies, market analyses, and financial projections  
       
   Page 6   

Table of Contents  

necessary in determining the feasibility of a project; performing gasoline reformulation modeling; analyzing and evaluating layout and mechanical designs for complex
processing plants; analyzing automation and control systems; analyzing, designing, and executing biocontainment strategies; developing and performing process protocols with respect to Federal Drug Administration-mandated qualification and validation
requirements; providing consultation on proposed railway and airport expansion projects; and performing geological and metallurgical studies.            Also included in the category of  Process, Scientific and Systems Consulting  are the professional and program management services required to assist
clients (such as the United States federal government and its agencies) in a wide range of defense and aerospace related programs. Such services typically are more technical and scientific in nature than are other project services we provide, and
may involve such tasks as supporting the development and testing of conventional weapons systems; weapons modeling and simulations; computer systems development, maintenance, and support; evaluation and testing of mission-critical control systems;
and other highly technical programs and tasks.              Complementary Nature of Resources
and Business Systems Utilized        There is a high degree of similarity of the workforces among our service categories. For example, engineering
and design services (i.e., services provided by persons who are degreed and in certain circumstances licensed, such as engineers, architects, scientists, and economists) exist in all four service categories. In addition, there is a high degree of
similarity among a significant component of the workforces we employ to perform on O M and construction projects. In providing O M and construction services, we employ a large number of skilled craft labor personnel. These may include
welders, pipe fitters, electricians, crane operators, and other personnel that work on very large capital projects (in the case of projects classified within the construction services category) or on smaller capital projects (in the case of
maintenance projects classified within the O M services category).            Our operating units use a matrix organizational structure. Our results, therefore, are dependent on groups representing technical disciplines (e.g., electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, cost engineering, etc.) supporting project
management personnel (who maintain the relationship between us and our clients, and who are ultimately responsible for delivering projects to our clients safely, on time, and on budget). Additionally, all of our operating regions and divisions use
common tools, policies, and procedures to manage and run their respective businesses. These include practices concerning such things as project review meetings, project performance evaluations, and project execution plans.            The use of technology throughout our organization is highly uniform. Whether it is
PC-based computer aided design and drafting (CADD) applications used by our engineering and design staff; or PC-based modeling programs used by the scientific and consulting staff; or PC-based scheduling, estimating, and cost control applications
used by home-office personnel in support of our construction and maintenance activities, all of the service categories described above are equally vulnerable to changes in technology as they occur in the economy at large.              Industry Groups and Markets        We provide our services to clients that operate in the following industry groups and markets: oil and gas exploration, production, and refining; long-term programs
for various national governments, including the United States; chemicals and polymers; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; infrastructure; buildings; technology and manufacturing; and pulp and paper. We also provide services to clients operating in
certain other industries and markets, such as food and consumer products, and basic resources (e.g., mining, minerals, and fertilizers), among others. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit
cross-utilization of our resources and help to mitigate the negative effects of a downturn in a single industry.         
   Page 7   

Table of Contents  

   The following table sets forth our revenues from each of the various industry groups and markets in which our
clients operate for each of the five fiscal years ended September 30 (in thousands of dollars):         
            Oil   Gas and Refining
             We provide our full line of traditional engineering, design,
construction, and construction management services to our clients operating in the areas of exploration, production, and refining. Typical projects include new design and construction; revamps or expansions of existing plants; upgrades of individual
process units within refineries; and maintenance services. We also provide a broad range of consulting services to our clients including process assessments; facility appraisals; feasibility studies; technology evaluations; project finance
structuring and support; and multi-client studies and subscription services.            Historically, revenues from our hydrocarbon business related primarily to projects associated with petroleum refining and the processes and technologies required to convert crude oil and gas into petroleum fuels, chemical feedstocks, and
lubricants. More recently, our services and the types of projects we perform have expanded to include the upstream and downstream sectors of the oil and gas industry. These projects include heavy oil processing projects (e.g., oil sands extraction
projects); projects involving oil recovery through steam injection; and natural gas treating, gathering, and storage projects including extraction of commercially valuable elements of the gas stream. A new area of focus for us is off-shore
production, where we are actively pursuing project opportunities in engineering and design of topside facilities. Higher energy prices and the depletion of traditional reserves are driving our clients towards the development of new reserves and the
expansion of existing ones. We are actively supporting our clients in these initiatives in North America, the Middle East, and Asia.            Government regulations continue to influence the need for project services by our clients operating in the refining industry. We see continuing project activity in
refining due to Tier II gasoline and on-road Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel requirements. We believe new regulations, such as off-road Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel, and new ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulates will drive new investment
requirements in the industry over the next several years. We are actively involved in such regulatory-based projects. We believe we are uniquely positioned in this field through our proprietary sulfur removal technology (Super Claus), which has a
strong share of the market for installed capacity. Biofuels, and particularly biodiesel, is another area of increasing activity and opportunity. We are already working on a number of these projects in Europe.            Refineries are also responding to changes in feedstock price and availability as well
as the product market. This is leading to investment to facilitate processing heavier crude with higher sulfur content  
       
   Page 8   

Table of Contents  

and producing a different product slate, responding to increased demand for diesel. Our North American and European offices are very involved in this market.
           We have also used our modular construction technology on a number of
projects in the refining and petroleum industry. In the U.S. and European refining markets, many projects involve revamping existing processing units or adding new processes to an existing refinery. As a result of the close proximity of processing
units in these refineries, we believe using modular construction can decrease congestion at the construction site. Modular construction can also provide cost and project execution benefits in remote locations.            We also provide maintenance services to our clients in the refining industry and have
established a number of formal alliances with various clients. Some of these alliances are both national (within the U.S.) and international in scope.            In this industry group and market, we also include power generation and cogeneration projects. While not a major focus for us, we provide design, engineering,
procurement, construction and construction management, and maintenance services to our clients in the power generation and supply industry. Typical projects include simple and combined cycle power projects, cogeneration power plants, aeroderivative
and industrial gas turbines, and emergency power generation stations. The industry is now focusing on gasification, as high energy prices, the need for hydrogen and power, availability of lower priced solid fuels, and the potential to sequester
CO   2    emissions make this technology a new area for project development.              National Government Programs        We
categorize our National Government Programs as generally relating to environmental, aerospace and defense, or building programs.              Environmental Programs        We are one of the leading
providers of environmental engineering and consulting services in the United States and abroad, including hazardous and nuclear waste management and site cleanup and closure. Many of our projects for the United States federal government span over
ten years. Our projects within this market generally relate to all major federal and state environmental statutes, with particular emphasis on the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act and the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act. We currently provide environmental investigation, restoration, engineering, construction, and site operations and maintenance services to a number of United States federal government agencies, including the Department of Energy (DOE)
and the DOD.            As part of our environmental restoration work, we provide
support in such areas as underground storage tank removal; contaminated soil and water remediation; and long-term groundwater monitoring. We also design, build, install, operate, and maintain various types of soil and groundwater cleanup systems at
multiple project locations across the United States and its territories for the United States Army Corps of Engineers and the United States Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE). Typical projects include the preparation of
feasibility studies and performance of remedial investigations, engineering, design, and remediation services on several national programs. As an extension of our environmental support to AFCEE, we also serve AFCEE s customers with execution of
capital projects involving sustainment, repair, and modernization of military facilities and infrastructure.            We provide a full range of environmental consulting services including air quality planning and permitting; water quality compliance; environmental conservation
studies; pollution prevention assessments; and compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act.         
   Page 9   

Table of Contents  

   As part of our support to our clients, we provide asset management services in the form of infrastructure
operations and maintenance. This is an integral part of our services for the DOE at the Oak Ridge Environmental Management sites and at the Argonne National Laboratory. Asset management also includes building closures, which can involve
deactivation, decommissioning, and demolition of government facilities. We also are providing these services to support the government of the United Kingdom in its nuclear reactor decommissioning program.              Aerospace and Defense Programs        We provide support to aerodynamic, propulsion, and space facilities and systems for government clients at more than a dozen test centers across the United States.
This includes military systems acquisition management and strategic planning; operations and maintenance of test facilities, ranges, space launch facilities, and space chambers; test and evaluation in computer, laboratory, facility, and range
environments; test facility computer systems instrumentation and diagnostics; and test facility design/build programs. We also provide systems engineering and integration of complex weapons and space systems as well as hardware and software design
of complex flight and ground systems. We support and maintain enterprise information systems for government and commercial customers worldwide, ranging from the operation of complex computational networks to the development and validation of
specific software applications.            We have provided advanced technology
engineering services to the DOD for more than 50 years and currently support defense programs in dozens of locations, both within the United Sates and internationally. In addition to operating and maintaining several DOD test centers, our support
includes services such as aerodynamic testing of next-generation fighter aircraft; propulsion testing for space programs; testing of the US Army s next generation ground mobile weapon systems; and acquisition support for weapons systems such as
air-to-air missile systems and precision guided smart weapons. We also support the acquisition and development of systems and equipment for Special Operations Forces as well as the development of biological, chemical, and nuclear detection and
protection systems. We also support the DOD in a number of information technology programs including network design, integration, and support; command and control technology; development and sustainment of databases and customized applications; and
security solutions.            We provide a broad range of engineering, science,
and technical support services to eight NASA sites, delivering support to virtually every major space program including the International Space Station; space shuttle recertification; space observatories; aerospace transportation systems; space
propulsion systems; advanced materials research; and advanced research and development activities such as protein crystal growth experiments for the development of new drugs and vaccines. We also provide operations and maintenance services for NASA
aerospace and propulsion research test facilities.              Buildings
Programs        Also included in National Government Programs revenues are building programs we perform for certain agencies of the United States
federal government. We provide a wide range of planning, architectural, engineering, construction management, program management, and design/build services to agencies such as the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA); the General Services
Administration (GSA); the United States Departments of State, Treasury, Agriculture and Defense; and the Army National Guard, among others. Typical projects include renovating and modernizing terminal radar control centers, air traffic control
towers, and other facilities for the FAA. We also provide planning, architectural, and engineering services for the United States Pentagon renovation program as well as planning and design services for the Internal Revenue Service at offices and
customer service centers located nationwide. More recent contract awards require us to provide planning, design, and program management services in connection with certain homeland security initiatives for the GSA and the  
       
   Page 10   

Table of Contents  

Department of Homeland Security. We are providing planning, design, design/build, and program management services for the DOD on military family housing projects;
quality of life projects; training, maintenance, and readiness facilities; and command and control centers, as well as military facilities supporting the DOD s global re-basing program, the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure program, and the
transformation initiatives of the various military services.              Chemicals and
Polymers        The chemicals and polymers industries remain an important element to our overall growth. This market, which we believe is on an
upswing after an extended flat period, continues to be an essential part of our diversified business. We are expanding our presence globally to better meet client needs as they increase their operations internationally with strong focus in the
Middle East and Asia.            The types of projects we execute for our clients
in these industries include feedstock synthesis; chemical synthesis; and polymerization. This includes high-pressure processes to produce industrial chemicals and low-pressure multi-product processes to produce specialty and fine chemicals. We have
extensive knowledge of, and experience with, advanced polymerization reactions and state-of-the-art, post-reactor processing techniques.            Another important aspect of serving our clients in the chemicals and polymers business is in the area of field services. We have contracts with major chemical
producers worldwide to provide construction, on-site maintenance, and turnaround activities. Many of these contracts are evergreen in nature, with relationships extending over many years. We believe our focus on safety, value, and client
satisfaction are important factors contributing to the long-term nature of these relationships. Like the refining industry, we provide maintenance services to our clients in the chemicals industry and have also established numerous formal alliances.
           Our clients operating in this sector focus on safety, reliability, and
maintainability in order to keep operating costs down. To support these initiatives, we apply best practices on capital and maintenance work by leveraging synergy and resources within our alliances and partnerships, which in some cases involve more
than 25 chemical facilities for a single owner.            As these multi-site
relationships increase in magnitude, the range of services we provide often expands. Other services we provide vary from ad hoc, on-site engineering services to the management and completion of entire capital improvement programs. We provide
technical consulting; project finance structuring consulting; facility appraisal; market analysis; and business consulting services as well as fully-integrated engineering, procurement, construction, and construction management services. Our
services can guide and assist our chemical clients from a good project idea to a constructed and operating chemical facility.            Many of our clients currently engage in front-end feasibility planning as global industry volumes and prices strengthen. In addition to large
 mega-capacity  projects underway in the Middle East and Asia, we are seeing incremental capacity expansions in North America and Europe. An area of focus due to high feedstock costs is gasification to produce the feeds for chemicals and
fertilizers. Our involvement in these early studies positions us to help owners capitalize on return on investment opportunities by streamlining work processes and optimizing existing plant layouts for future expansions.              Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology        We furnish our full line of services to our clients operating in the pharmaceuticals and biotechnology industries, including master planning; programming;
feasibility studies; engineering;  
       
   Page 11   

Table of Contents  

preliminary and detailed design; procurement; construction; construction management; commissioning and start-up; validation; and maintenance. Accordingly, we believe
we are fully capable of executing the industry s largest capital programs on a single-responsibility basis.            Typical projects for clients in these industries include laboratories; research and development facilities; pilot plants; bulk active pharmaceutical ingredient
production facilities; full-scale biotechnology production facilities; and secondary manufacturing facilities. In addition to regulatory compliance issues, state-of-the-art technology and expertise are critical to our clients in these industries.
Such technology and knowledge encompasses containment; barrier technology; locally-controlled environments; process and building systems automation; and off-the-site design and fabrication of process and building modules.            As companies in the pharmaceuticals industry continue to experience pressure to
decrease product time-to-market, reduce costs, and increase return on investment, the types of services we provide have grown over the years to include modular construction as well as consulting and strategic planning to help our clients complete
capital projects faster and more efficiently. As an example, we increased our efforts to integrate commissioning and validation services, helping reduce the amount of time required to introduce a new drug into the marketplace. In the biotechnology
industry, our multidomestic structure helps clients as new product discovery and development drives capital spending and our ability to act as a capital program partner helps them effectively manage their strategic investments.            We have professional resources located in geographic areas of major pharmaceutical and
biotechnology concentration, and we provide single-point engineering, procurement, construction management, and validation (EPCMV) project delivery. We continue to enhance our 3-D design capabilities, project controls, and automation capabilities as
well as other technological aspects of our EPCMV services. This enables us to better serve our clients and to ensure that projects transition from their conceptual design phase through engineering, construction, start-up, commissioning, and
validation phases as economically and efficiently as possible.            We have
also established formal alliances and preferred provider agreements with numerous clients in the pharmaceuticals and biotechnology industries.              Infrastructure        We provide a broad range of planning, design,
consulting, engineering, and construction management services to our clients engaged in civil construction projects throughout the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Ireland, Asia, and other selected countries.            Transportation infrastructure development and rehabilitation is a core competency of
our infrastructure business. By integrating a broad range of professional disciplines, we provide comprehensive planning, engineering, and construction and program management services for transportation facilities and systems. Interdisciplinary
teams work independently or as an extension of agency staff on highway, bridge, transit, tunnel, airport, railroad, intermodal facility, maritime, and lock and dam projects. Representative clients include national governments and their agencies in
the U.S. and U.K.; state departments of transportation; local and regional transportation agencies; the United States Army Corps of Engineers; and private industry freight transport firms.            Our services in the area of water resources have helped public and private sector
clients develop and rehabilitate critical water resource systems. Integrating water, wastewater, air quality, and hazardous waste remediation experience provides these clients with the comprehensive expertise needed to deliver complex projects. We
provide planning, design, design/build, and construction and program management services to a diverse market, including regional wastewater treatment agencies;  
       
   Page 12   

Table of Contents  

manufacturers and power generators; local water suppliers; and military agencies. We continue to develop water/wastewater conveyance systems and water resources
management projects. We have developed micro-tunneling ( trenchless technology ) as a primary service and have successfully applied this specialized process to such projects as water and utility distribution systems and pipelines.
           We believe robust public and private sector infrastructure funding will
support additional opportunities for planning, design, construction, and operations and maintenance services for the foreseeable future. We also believe that opportunities for construction management and design/build services will continue to grow
as these project delivery methods gain acceptance in the public sector. We are working collaboratively to leverage our global skill base to develop new client relationships and opportunities in alternative project financing and delivery, and
infrastructure-related enterprise management.            Current programs and
projects we are performing include transportation program management services for U.S. cities and counties; construction management and asset management services for water and wastewater treatment systems located in the U.S. and the U.K.; design,
engineering, and construction management services for transit, highway and bridge projects throughout the world; and multiyear, general design and consulting services for a railway entity in the U.K.              Buildings        Buildings generally refers to our full range of design and construction activities relating to institutional, government, and corporate buildings as well as other specialized facilities, including projects at many of the
world s leading medical and research centers and universities. We are one of the leading providers of architectural, engineering, and construction management services for buildings projects throughout the United States and in many parts of
Europe.            We focus our efforts and resources in markets where strong
demographic trends and capital spending initiatives drive demand. Typical projects include large, multi-year United States federal and European governments  building programs; major primary and secondary education capital improvement programs;
U.S. federal, state, and local government courts and correctional facilities; and hospitals and health   research facilities (including projects at many of the world s leading medical and research centers). We also provide design and
construction-related services for office and corporate headquarters buildings; municipal and civic facilities; commercial centers; and recreation complexes and facilities. We serve a diversified client base encompassing both the public and private
sectors.            We provide and/or manage a full range of planning,
architectural, engineering, construction, construction management, and/or total program management services for a variety of unique and technically complex buildings and campuses. We provide our services on projects that emphasize new construction
as well as those involving expansion, renovation, and refurbishment of existing facilities.            Of particular significance is our growing success in applying our diversified, in-house technical skill base to both public and private sector clients requiring complete program management. Such contracts typically involve
providing technical, professional, and construction services over multiple years to clients with whom we have long-standing relationships and a tenure of successful service. We also provide integrated facility management services for which we
(sometimes through joint ventures with third parties) assume full responsibility for the ongoing operations and maintenance of entire commercial or industrial complexes on behalf of the client.            We include in National Government Programs those Buildings projects where the work is
performed for a national government and encompasses multiple projects occurring over more than one year.         
   Page 13   

Table of Contents  

     Technology and Manufacturing        We provide a broad range of project services for a variety of technology, manufacturing, and test facilities. This category includes projects involving highly complex test facilities for clients in the aerospace and automotive
industries. Typical projects range from conceptual design and feasibility studies to complete design/build programs of aero-acoustic wind tunnels; engine test facilities; acoustic enclosures; transmission test stands; powertrain, environmental,
emissions, altitude, and electromagnetic compatibility test facilities; in-line and end-of-line component test stands; and computer-based measurement and control systems. We are a leader in providing support to automotive manufacturers and component
suppliers for the supply of testing services and the management of test assets, with test facility operations and maintenance contracts and usage agreements in place with Ford Motor Company, Visteon, General Motors, and the United States Air Force
at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.            This category also includes projects
for clients operating in the semiconductor industry. We provide design, engineering, procurement, construction, and construction management services for a variety of clients in this industry. Typical projects range from on-site plant engineering and
tool hook-ups to multi-million dollar, state-of-the-art wafer fabrication and crystal growing facilities used to produce microprocessors for computers and other consumer electronic devices. Projects in the semiconductor industry are more complex
than many other commercial facilities, requiring a greater emphasis on cleanroom and similar high-end technologies.              Pulp and Paper        We provide a broad range of consulting,
engineering, procurement, construction, construction management, and maintenance services to our clients in the pulp and paper industry, both in the United States and internationally. With a strategy of expanding our geographic presence into areas
where our clients intend to build facilities, our pulp and paper capability now extends through our offices in the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Italy, and Mexico. Typical projects for our clients in this industry range from small mill projects to
complex, multi-million dollar paper machine rebuilds, mill expansions, and the construction of new facilities.            Pulp and paper projects encompass many areas of a mill, including pulping and bleaching; papermaking; chemical recovery; material handling; effluent treatment; and
power and steam generation. In the area of papermaking, our expertise includes tissue and towel, coated and uncoated fine papers, newsprint, and linerboard. Our expertise and skill set also include the converting and packaging of paper products for
distribution and consumer use. We have been instrumental in designing and installing state-of-the-art facilities for recycled fiber, de-inking, and pulp bleaching.            Chemical recovery and power generation are also integral components of the papermaking process. We have broad experience in these
areas and apply our expertise in the engineering and construction of such facilities for many of our clients.            A significant portion of our work is assisting our clients in their compliance with environmental regulations and standards that affect the pulp and paper industry.
We monitor all of the key environmental regulations affecting our clients and offer services including compliance studies, permitting support, and design of pollution control systems. We also provide complete permitting services in support of all of
our projects, including associated air modeling. In addition, we provide compliance services regarding air pollutant standards and hazardous air pollutant emission limits from industrial boilers for many of our clients.            The pulp and paper industry has been consolidating for many years, leaving a refined
customer base with increased assets and highly focused market strategies. Several of the traditional pulp and paper customers are emerging as major consumer product companies. These customers have created  
       
   Page 14   

Table of Contents  

new opportunities for us in non-traditional areas such as wall board plants and facilities that manufacture diapers and feminine care products.            Like certain other markets, we have established formal alliances with leaders in the
pulp and paper industry. Such alliances allow us to expand the types of services we provide our clients and enable us to improve the overall quality, consistency, and value of our services under the highest of expectations for confidentiality.
             Other        Included in this category are projects not classified into any of the other industry and market categories. This includes projects for clients operating in the food
and consumer products industries as well as basic resources (such as mining, minerals and fertilizers).              Backlog        For information regarding our backlog, refer to Item 7.  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , below.              Significant
Customers        For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003, and 2002, revenues earned directly or indirectly from
agencies of the United States federal government accounted for 16.4%, 21.2%, 22.3%, 22.6%, and 21.5% respectively, of total revenues. It is rare when a commercial customer contributes 10% or more of the Company s total revenue. On occasion, we
can execute a number of field services projects which include a significant amount of pass-through costs for a single customer where revenues from that customer exceed 10% of total revenue. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 revenues
earned from Valero Energy Corporation accounted for 10.2% of total Company revenues; revenues earned from this customer in prior fiscal years constituted less than 10% of total revenues.              Financial Information About Geographic Areas        The financial information regarding geographic areas in which we operate is included in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
             Contracts        While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the contracts we undertake, our contracts generally fall into three broad categories:
cost-reimbursable, fixed-price, and guaranteed maximum price. The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by these types of contracts during each of the five preceding fiscal years ended September 30:
        
          In accordance with industry
practice, most of our contracts are subject to termination at the discretion of the client. Contracts typically provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through the date of termination.            When we are directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement, and construction
of a project or the maintenance of a client s plant or facility, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment, and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly, and we have
no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not  
       
   Page 15   

Table of Contents  

reflected in either revenues or costs. The following table presents the approximate amount of such      pass-through costs included in revenues for each of the five preceding fiscal years ended September 30 (in millions):         
            Cost-Reimbursable Contracts
       Cost-reimbursable contracts generally provide for reimbursement of costs incurred plus an amount of profit. The profit element may be in the
form of a simple mark-up applied to the labor costs incurred or it may be in the form of a fee, or a combination of a mark-up and a fee. The fee element can also take several forms. The fee may be a fixed amount as specified in the contract; it may
be an amount based on a percentage of the costs incurred; or it may be an incentive fee based on targets, milestones, or performance factors defined in the contract. In general, we prefer cost-reimbursable contracts because we believe the primary
reason for awarding a contract to us should be our technical expertise and professional qualifications rather than price.              Fixed-Price Contracts        Fixed-price contracts include both
 lump sum bid  contracts and  negotiated fixed-price  contracts. Under lump sum bid contracts, we are required to bid against other contractors based on specifications the client furnishes. This type of pricing presents certain
inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications received, problems with new technologies, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Additionally, it is not unusual for lump sum bid
contracts to lead to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship-based business model. Accordingly, lump sum bid contracts are not our preferred form of contract. Under a negotiated fixed-price contract, we are
selected as the contractor first and then we negotiate a price with our client. Negotiated fixed-price contracts frequently exist in single-responsibility arrangements where we perform some portion of the work before negotiating the total price of
the project. Thus, although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to us. However, because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both
negotiated fixed-price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit potential than other types of contracts. Over the past five years, most of our fixed-price work has been either negotiated fixed-price contracts or lump sum bid contracts for
project services, rather than turn-key construction.              Guaranteed Maximum Price
Contracts        Guaranteed maximum price contracts are performed in the same manner as cost-reimbursable contracts; however, the total actual cost
plus the fee cannot exceed the guaranteed price negotiated with the client. If the total actual cost of the contract exceeds the guaranteed maximum price, then we will bear at least some, if not all, of the excess. In those cases where the total
actual cost and fee are less than the guaranteed price, we will often share the savings on a predetermined basis with the client. These contracts are not our preferred form of contract because they often contribute to an adversarial relationship
with clients, which is contrary to our relationship-based business model.              Competition        For information regarding the competitive conditions in our business, please refer to Item 1A  Risk
Factors , below.              Employees        At September 30, 2006, we had approximately 31,700 full-time, staff employees (including contract staff). Additionally, as of September 30, 2006, there
were approximately 12,100 persons  
       
   Page 16   

Table of Contents  

employed in the field on a project basis. The number of field employees varies in relation to the number and size of the maintenance and construction projects in
progress at any particular time.              Available Information        We regularly file various reports with the SEC. These reports include annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. We also file from time to time
current reports on Form 8-K. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room located at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., 20549. In order obtain information about the operation of the
Public Reference Room, a person may call the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. The SEC also maintains a site on the Internet that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC
The SEC s website is http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and download the various reports we file with the SEC free of charge from our website, http://www.jacobs.com.         

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS                 We engage in a highly competitive business. Increased competition for professional services could reduce our market share and profits.        There is intense competition to provide professional engineering, design, architectural, program management, systems consulting, construction and construction management services. The extent of our competition varies according to the
industries and markets we serve as well as the geographic areas in which we operate. The degree and type of competition we face in the marketplace is also often influenced by the type and scope of projects for which we compete. For example, with
respect to our construction and operations and maintenance services, clients generally award large projects (e.g., large design-build and program management projects) to large contractors. Some of our competitors are larger than us and may possess
greater resources than we do, which may give them an advantage when bidding for certain of these large projects. Conversely, the relatively small amount of capital required for a business providing engineering, design, architectural, and consulting
services creates a relative ease of market entry for a new entrant possessing acceptable professional qualifications and certifications. Accordingly, our competitors range from small, regional firms to large, national and international
organizations. If we are unable to compete effectively in the geographic areas in which we operate, we may experience a loss of market share and reduced profitability.            Our larger competitors for engineering, construction, and maintenance services for process plants include the Bechtel Group, Inc.,
Fluor Corporation, Foster Wheeler Corp., Washington Group International, Kellogg Brown   Root, Aker Kvaerner, Technip, and AMEC plc. In the area of buildings, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well
as HDR, Inc., Hellmuth, Obata   Kassabaum, AeCOM Technology, Turner Construction, and Day   Zimmermann. In the area of infrastructure, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as Parsons
Brinckerhoff, URS Corporation, HNTB, and W.S. Atkins. In the area of U.S. federal programs, our principal competitors include several of the companies listed above as well as the Shaw Group, SAIC, CH2M Hill, Weston Solutions, Lockheed Martin
Corporation, Tetra Tech, and Computer Sciences Corporation. And in the area of pulp and paper, our principal competitors include BE K, and AMEC plc.              Our continued success is dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel.        There is intense demand for employees able to perform the services we provide. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain
personnel, including engineers, architects, designers, and corporate management professionals, who have the necessary and required experience and expertise. In addition, there is significant demand for qualified craft personnel in the geographic
areas where our construction and maintenance sites are located. In certain geographic  
       
   Page 17   

Table of Contents  

areas we may not be able to satisfy the demand for our services because of our inability to successfully hire and retain qualified personnel. If we cannot find and
retain highly qualified and trained engineers, architects, designers and corporate management employees or hire skilled craft personnel as needed, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.              The contracts in our backlog may be adjusted, cancelled or suspended by our clients.
Additionally, even if fully performed, our backlog is not a good indicator of our future gross margins or gross profits.        At
September 30, 2006, our backlog totaled approximately $9.8 billion. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. In addition, our
backlog is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that the amount of backlog in-hand at September 30, 2006 will actually be
realized as revenues.            The gross margins (i.e., contract revenue less
direct costs of contracts) can vary considerably between contracts. One aspect of our business that can have a significant effect on the gross margins we realize on our contracts and projects is the amount of pass-through costs incurred. When we are
directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement and construction of a project or the maintenance of a client s plant or facility, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other
projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly, and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs. Since pass-through costs typically do not bring significant
margins with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in revenues without experiencing a corresponding change in our gross margins.         
  Additionally, the way we perform on our individual contracts can affect greatly our gross margins and hence, future profitability. In some of the markets we
serve there is an increasing trend towards cost reimbursable contracts with incentive-fee arrangements. Typically, our incentive fees are based on such things as: achievement of target completion dates or target costs; overall safety
performance; overall client satisfaction, and/or other performance criteria. If we subsequently fail to meet such targets or achieve the expected performance standards, we may receive a lower, or even zero, incentive fee resulting in lower gross
margins. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that the contracts in backlog, assuming they produce the revenues currently expected, will generate gross margins at the rates we have realized in the past.              Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies pose
additional risk relating to future funding and compliance.        Contracts with the U.S. and other governments and their agencies are subject to
various uncertainties, restrictions and regulations, including oversight audits by various government authorities and profit and cost controls. In the U.S., government contracts are also exposed to uncertainties associated with Congressional
funding. The U.S. federal government is under no obligation to maintain funding at any specific level, and funds for a program may even be eliminated.            In addition, U.S. government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other socio-economic requirements. For example, we must
comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards, the Service Contract Act and Department of Defense security regulations. We must also comply with various other government regulations and
requirements as well as various statutes related to employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping and accounting. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing government contracts could
be terminated, and we could be temporarily suspended or even debarred from government contracting or subcontracting.         
   Page 18   

Table of Contents  

   We also run the risk of the effects of government audits, investigations and proceedings, and so-called  qui
tam  actions brought by individuals or the government under the U.S. Federal False Claims Act that, if an unfavorable result occurs, could impact our profits and financial condition, as well as our ability to obtain future government work. For
example, government agencies routinely review and audit government contractors. If these agencies determine that a rule or regulation has been violated, a variety of penalties can be imposed including criminal and civil penalties all of which would
harm our reputation with the government or even debar us from future government activities.            If one or more of our government contracts are terminated for any reason including for convenience, if we are suspended from government contract work, or if payment of our costs is disallowed, we could suffer a significant
reduction in expected revenues and profits.              We bear the risk of cost overruns in
approximately 10% of the dollar-value of our contracts. We may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts if costs increase above our estimates.        For the year ended September 30, 2006, approximately 10% of our revenues was earned under contracts that were either fixed-price or guaranteed maximum price in
nature. For such contracts, we bear the risk of paying some, if not all, of any cost overruns. Under these fixed price and guaranteed maximum price contracts, contract prices are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates which are based
on a number of assumptions, including assumptions about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If these estimates prove inaccurate, or circumstances change such as unanticipated
technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, cost of raw materials or our suppliers  or subcontractors  inability to perform, cost overruns may occur and we
could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. Ambiguities as to contract specifications can also lead to cost-overruns.              International operations, unfavorable political developments, natural disasters and weak foreign economies may seriously harm our financial condition.        For the year ended September 30, 2006, approximately 35% of our revenues were earned from unaffiliated clients outside the United States. Our business is
dependent on the continued success of our international operations, and we expect that our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. At a minimum, our reported financial condition and results
of operations are exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are denominated in currencies other than the
U.S. dollar, into the U.S. dollar. In addition, our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including:         

Recessions in foreign economies and the impact on our costs of doing business in those countries;           

Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;           

Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;           

The adoption of new, and the expansion of existing, trade restrictions;           

Acts of war and terrorism;           

The ability to finance efficiently our foreign operations;           

Social, political and economic instability;           

Limitations on the ability to repatriate foreign earnings; and           

Natural disasters or other crises, such as the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome commonly known as SARS or Avian  bird  flu.           
   Page 19   

Table of Contents  

     Our business is dependent on the timing and funding of new awards, and we are vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the
markets in which are clients operate.        We provide technical, professional, and construction services to clients operating in a number of
markets including oil and gas exploration, production, and refining; long-term programs for various national governments, including the United States; chemicals and polymers; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; infrastructure; buildings; technology
and manufacturing; and pulp and paper, among others. These individual markets are generally cyclical in nature. Because we are dependent on the timing and funding of new awards, we are therefore vulnerable to unanticipated downturns in our
clients  markets and industries. As a result, our past results have varied considerably and may continue to vary depending upon the demand for future projects in the industries listed above, and the geographic regions in which we operate.
             Rising inflation, interest rates and/or construction costs could reduce the demand
for our services as well as decrease our profit on our existing contracts, in particular with respect to our fixed price contracts.        Because a
significant portion of our revenues is earned from cost-reimbursable type contracts (90%, 85%, and 83% during fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively) the effects of inflation on our financial condition and results of operations over the past few
years have been generally minor. However, we bear all of the risk of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are fixed-price and may be at risk to the effects of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are guaranteed
maximum-price. In addition, rising inflation, interest rates and/or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services. Furthermore, if we expand our business into markets and geographic areas where fixed-price and lump-sum work is more
prevalent, inflation may have a larger impact on our results of operations in the future. Therefore, increases in inflation, interest rates and/or construction costs could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.
             Our strategic plan relies in part on acquisitions to sustain our growth.
Acquisitions of other companies present certain risks and uncertainties.        Our strategic plan involves growth through, among other things, the
acquisition of other companies. Such growth involves a number of risks, including:         

Difficulties relating to combining previously separate businesses into a single, combined unit;           

Diversion of management s attention from day-to-day operations;           

The assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including unforeseen liabilities;           

Failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements;           

Potentially substantial transaction costs associated with business combinations;           

Difficulties relating to assimilating the personnel, services and systems of an acquired business and to integrating marketing and other operational capabilities; and

Difficulties in applying and integrating our system of internal controls to an acquired business.              In addition, we cannot assure you that we will continue to locate suitable acquisition targets or that we will be able to consummate
any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Acquisitions may bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different than those we have traditionally experienced.
             In the event we issue stock as consideration for certain acquisitions we may make,
we could dilute share ownership.        We grow our business organically as well as through acquisitions. One method of acquiring companies or
otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of additional equity  
       
   Page 20   

Table of Contents  

securities. If we do issue additional equity securities, such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing
stockholders  individual ownership percentages in the Company.              The outcome of
pending and future claims, and litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business.        The nature of our business results in
clients, subcontractors and vendors occasionally presenting claims against us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. Similarly, and in the
normal course of business, we occasionally present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. If we fail to properly document the nature of our claims or are otherwise unsuccessful in
negotiating reasonable settlements with our clients, vendors and subcontractors, we could incur cost overruns and experience reduced profits or, in some cases, suffer a loss for that project.            In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and
litigation. Generally, such guarantees relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved as a defendant relates to workers  compensation, personal injury, environmental, employment/labor,
professional liability, and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. However, we have elected to retain a portion of losses that may occur through the use of various deductibles,
limits, and retentions under our insurance programs which may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured.              Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover or change of control.        We are a Delaware corporation. Certain anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware general corporation law impose restrictions on the ability of others to acquire
control of us. In addition, certain provisions of our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover. For example:         

Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three year terms;           

Only our Board of Directors can fill vacancies on the board;           

There are various restrictions on the ability of a stockholder to nominate a director for election; and           

Our Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preference shares.              These types of provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders.
Accordingly, stockholders may be limited in the ability to obtain a premium for their shares.         

Item 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS               None.         

Item 2.   
   PROPERTIES               Our properties consist primarily of office space in general, commercial office buildings located in major cities in the following countries: United States; Australia; Belgium; Canada; the Czech Republic; China; Finland; France;
Germany; Greece; India; Italy; Mexico; The Netherlands; Poland; Puerto Rico; Republic of Ireland; Saudi Arabia; Singapore; Spain; Sweden; United Arab Emirates; and the United Kingdom. Such space is used for operations (providing technical,
professional, and other home office  
       
   Page 21   

Table of Contents  

services), sales, and administration. Most of our properties are leased. In addition, we own facilities located in Charleston, South Carolina which serve as our
principal manufacturing and fabrication site for our modular construction activities. The total amount of space used by us for all of our operations is approximately 4.4 million square feet.            We also lease smaller, project offices located throughout the United States, the United
Kingdom, and in certain other countries. We also rent a portion of our construction equipment on a short-term basis.         

Item 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS               The information required by this Item 3 is included in Note 10  Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees   Litigation, Performance
Guarantees, and Investigations  of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.         

Item 4.   
   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS               None.         
   Page 22   

Table of Contents  

PART II          

Item 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES               Jacobs  common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ),
and trades under the symbol  JEC . The Registrant has provided to the NYSE, without qualification, the required annual certification of its Chief Executive Officer regarding compliance with the NYSE s corporate governance listing
standards.            According to the records of the Registrant s transfer
agent, there were 1,100 stockholders of record as of November 29, 2006. The following table sets forth the low and high sales prices of a share of our common stock during each of the fiscal quarters presented, based on the NYSE consolidated
transaction report:         
          Our policy is to use cash flow
from operations to fund future growth, pay down debt, and, subject to market conditions, repurchase common stock under a stock buy-back program approved by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, we have not paid a cash dividend since fiscal 1984.
Although our Board of Directors periodically reviews the merits of paying cash dividends, we currently have no plans to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future.            The following table presents certain information about our equity compensation plans as of September 30, 2006:         

Column A     
      
   Column B     
      
   Column C      
 
     Plan Category     
      
   Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants, and rights     
      
   Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants, and rights     
      
   Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in Column
A)      
 
    Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders Note (a)   
      
  5,034,969  
      
  $  
  42.22  
      
  2,642,009   
 
    Equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders   

Total   
      
  5,034,969  
      
  $  
  42.22  
      
  2,642,009   

Note (a):  
     
    The number in Column A excludes purchase rights accruing under our two, broad-based, shareholder-approved employee stock purchase plans: The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.

Page 23   

Table of Contents  

1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  1989 ESPP ), and the Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  GESPP ). These plans give employees the
right to purchase shares at an amount and price that are not determinable until the end of the specified purchase periods, which occurs monthly. Our shareholders have authorized a total of 11.4 million shares of common stock to be issued
through the 1989 ESPP and the GESPP, which our Board of Directors voluntarily reduced by 0.6 million shares on July 26, 2001. From the inception of the 1989 ESPP and the GESPP through September 30, 2006, a total of 9.9 million
shares have been issued, leaving 0.9 million shares of common stock available for future issuance at that date.            

Item 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA               The following table presents selected financial data for each of the last five fiscal years. Financial data for fiscal years prior to 2006 has been adjusted to
include the effects of stock-based compensation accounted for in accordance with SFAS 123R, using the modified retrospective method of adoption. This selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and related notes beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Amounts are presented in thousands, except for per share information:         
       
   Page 24   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS               The purpose of this Management s Discussion and Analysis ( MD A ) is to provide an overview of the Company s
financial condition and results of operations as well as an analysis of the factors that caused certain key elements of our financial statements to change from one year to the next.            In this MD A, we use certain terms and abbreviations that are defined as follows:         

APB   
      
  Accounting Principles Board   

Backlog   
      
  Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. Our policy with respect to O M
contracts, however, is to include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O M contracts), our
policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, and exclude option periods.   

SG A expenses   
      
  From the Consolidated Statements of Earnings; SG A expenses means selling, general and administrative expenses.   

Operating profit   
      
  From the Consolidated Statements of Earnings; operating profit means revenues, less direct costs of contracts and SG A expenses.   

SFAS   
      
  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards; an accounting standard adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ).   
            Overview        Net earnings in fiscal 2006 increased by 49.6% as compared to last year, and EPS (diluted) grew by 46.0%. We continued to see increased revenues from clients
operating in many of the industry groups and markets we serve, but in particular, oil   gas and refining; chemicals and polymers; and pharmaceuticals and biotechnology. Also contributing to the increase in revenues was a 74.6% increase in
pass-through costs. When we are responsible for subcontract labor or third-party materials and equipment, we reflect the costs of such items in both revenues and costs. Since pass-through costs (which are incurred primarily on projects requiring
field services) typically do not have significant margins, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit.            Our cash balances increased by 81.0% during fiscal 2006. Cash and cash equivalents
increased from $239.8 million at September 30, 2005 to $434.1 million at September 30, 2006. Our  net cash  (defined as cash and cash equivalents less bank debt) increased from $143.9 million at September 30,
2005 to $341.9 million at September 30, 2006. Additions to property and equipment used $54.0 million of cash and cash equivalents during fiscal 2006 as compared to $43.9 million last year. Our cash balances, combined with a
borrowing capacity of $290.0 million under our long-term, unsecured revolving credit facility, provide sufficient capital resources for us to fund our on-going operations.              Critical Accounting Policies        In
order to understand better the changes that may occur to key elements of our financial condition and operating results, a reader of this MD A should endeavor to understand the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated
financial statements.         
   Page 25   

Table of Contents  

   The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business entity performing long-term engineering and construction-type contracts requires management to
make estimates and judgments that affect both the entity s results of operations as well as the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting polices are described in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, the following discussion is intended to describe those accounting policies most critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.             Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures  In accounting for long-term engineering and construction-type
contracts, we follow the provisions of the AICPA s Statement of Position 81-1  Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts . In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services.
Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at
completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate contingencies such as potential variances in schedule, the cost
of materials and labor, and productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of
costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. In some of the markets we serve there is an increasing trend towards cost-reimbursable contracts with incentive-fee arrangements. In certain instances, we base our incentive fees on achievement of target
completion dates, target costs, and/or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the
project. One such incentive-fee contract is with the DOE for the Fernald Closure Project. This contract provides for incentive fees based on schedule and cost. In addition, the terms of the contract stipulate that the incentive fees may not be fully
billed to the DOE until the completion of the project, currently estimated to occur in fiscal 2007. At September 30, 2006 we had recognized $40.0 million of deferred fees relating to this contract-completion.            We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known,
without regard to the percentage of completion.            The nature of our
business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims against us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. Similarly,
and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the
contract, we would include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to
be incurred. In those situations where we have incurred additional costs for which we believe the client is contractually responsible, we may present a claim to the client for such costs. In such situations, we include in revenues the amount of
costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included
in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims.            Certain cost-reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed
based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon  
       
   Page 26   

Table of Contents  

completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs not allowable under the terms of the contract, we
estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly.            As is common in the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures. For certain of these joint ventures (i.e., where we have an undivided interest in the assets and
liabilities of the venture), we recognize our proportionate share of joint venture revenues, costs and operating profit in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For other investments in engineering and construction joint ventures, we use the
equity method of accounting.             Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
and Others  Effective October 1, 2005, we began accounting for stock issued to employees and outside directors under SFAS No. 123R  Share-Based Payment.  SFAS 123R supersedes APB 25  Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees  and requires that we measure the value of services received in exchange for an award of an equity instrument based on the grant-date fair value of the award. The computed fair value is recognized as a non-cash cost over the
period the employee provides services. We adopted SFAS 123R under the modified retrospective application method. Accordingly, we have adjusted our prior financial statements to include the amounts we reported previously in the pro forma disclosures
made in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123  Stock-Based Compensation .            We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to compute the grant date fair value of the award. The Black-Scholes model requires the use of highly subjective assumptions in order to compute the hypothetical, fair value of an
option. Changes in these assumptions can cause drastically different values being assigned to a stock option. The value assigned to any stock options that may be awarded in the future as well as the related expense associated with any such awards
will be dependent on the assumptions used.            The following table compares
the effects of SFAS 123R on net earnings and earnings per share for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (in thousands, except per-share information):         
       
   Page 27   

Table of Contents  

    Accounting for Pension Plans  In accounting for pension plans, we follow the provisions of SFAS
No. 87  Employers  Accounting for Pensions.  SFAS 87 requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost, and the value of the plans  assets and liabilities. These assumptions involve
discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. We rely on qualified actuaries to assist us in valuing the financial position of the plans, and to provide advice regarding the actuarial assumptions used. The
expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2006 ranged from 5.0% to 9.0%; compared to a range of 6.0% to 9.0% last year. We believe this range of rates reflects the long-term returns expected on the plans  assets, considering projected
rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans  assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were raised from a range of 4.0% to 5.5% in fiscal 2005 to a range of 4.75% to
6.25% in fiscal 2006. Changes in the actuarial assumptions may have a material affect on the plans  assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. Management, together with our actuaries, monitors trends in the marketplace within
which our pension plans operate in order to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used.            During fiscal 2006 we reached an agreement with Stork N.V. regarding the plan assets and liabilities relating to our employees in the Netherlands who were
participants of a multi-employer pension plan. Under the agreement, Stork N.V has assumed the pension obligations for our employees up to February 2001 (the date we acquired certain engineering and contracting businesses from Stork N.V.). A
$41.8 million liability recorded previously in connection with the February 2001 business combination has been allocated to the various pension plans we acquired from Stork N.V.             Accounting for Income Taxes  We account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109  Accounting for Income
Taxes , and other, applicable authoritative pronouncements. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the normal course of business, we may engage in numerous transactions every day for which the ultimate
tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in taxable income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, the tax returns we file are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue
Service, most states in the United States, and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the United States. Our effective tax rate was 35.5% in fiscal 2006, 37.2% in fiscal 2005 and 35.3% in fiscal 2004. We routinely
monitor the appropriateness of our worldwide tax rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will differ from our estimates.             Insurance Matters, Litigation, Claims, and Contingencies  In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain
contractual guarantees and litigation. Generally, such guarantees relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are concerned involves the Company as a defendant in workers  compensation, personal injury,
environmental, employment/labor, professional liability, and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. However, we have elected to retain a portion of losses that may occur through the
use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured. In addition, as a contractor providing services
to various agencies of the United States federal government, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations,
and procurement practices.            In accordance with SFAS
No. 5  Accounting for Contingencies , we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such claims, guarantees, litigation, and audits and investigations. We rely on qualified
actuaries to assist us in determining the level of reserves to establish for insurance-related claims that are known and have been asserted against us, and for insurance-related claims that are believed to have been incurred based on actuarial

Page 28   

Table of Contents  

analysis, but have not yet been reported to our claims administrators as of the respective balance sheet dates. We include any adjustments to such insurance reserves
in our consolidated results of operations.             Testing Goodwill for
Impairment  In accordance with SFAS No. 142  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the amount of goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In conducting the impairment
test, we may apply, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 142, various valuation techniques to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. The values resulting from the application of these valuation techniques are not necessarily
representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of our reporting units to a willing third party. Since the adoption of SFAS 142 in fiscal 2002, we have not recorded any impairment loss associated with our goodwill.             Foreign Currencies  In general, our principal exposure to fluctuating
exchange rates relates to the effects of translating the financial statements of our subsidiaries operating outside the United States, which are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, into the U.S. dollar. We follow the provisions of
SFAS No. 52  Foreign Currency Translation  in preparing our consolidated financial statements.            We believe our exposure to the effects that fluctuating foreign currencies may have on our consolidated results of operations is limited because our various
operations invoice clients and satisfy their financial obligations primarily in their respective local functional currencies. In situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currencies, we strive to
have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs, or when appropriate, enter into foreign currency hedges to limit our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations.              Results of Operations                General        Our business
focuses exclusively on providing technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories:

Project Services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, and similar services);           

Construction services (which includes traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities);           

Operations and Maintenance services (which includes services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients as well as services involving process plant
maintenance); and           

Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which includes services performed in connection with a wide variety of scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities).
             The scope of services we can provide our clients,
therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete, single-responsibility, design-build-operate contracts.         
   Page 29   

Table of Contents  

   The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each year ended September 30 (in
thousands):         
          We focus our services on clients
operating in certain industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross-utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and
markets for each year ended September 30 (in thousands):         
           Other  includes
projects for clients operating in food and consumer products, and basic resources (such as mining, minerals, and fertilizers) industry groups and markets.              Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005        We recorded
net earnings of $196.9 million, or $3.27 per diluted share, for fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, compared to net earnings of $131.6 million, or $2.24 per diluted share for fiscal 2005.            Total revenues for fiscal 2006 increased by $1.8 billion, or 31.7%, to
$7.4 billion, compared to total revenues of $5.6 billion for fiscal 2005. Revenues increased among most of the industry groups and markets we serve, lead by a 52.4% increase in revenues from clients operating in the chemicals and polymers
markets, and a 43.2% increase in revenues from clients operating in the oil   gas and refining industries. The increase in revenues from clients operating in the chemicals and polymers markets was driven by demand by a number of our clients
to increase capacity. The increase in revenues from our clients operating in the oil   gas and refining industries was due primarily to new and continuing projects reconfiguring existing refineries in order to increase production and
address the effects of changing crude inputs   from lighter crudes to heavier crudes that contain slightly higher levels of sulfur. Although we continued to perform on contracts relating to various clean fuels programs during fiscal 2006, we
saw that spending levels for these programs started to wane.            Also
contributing to the increase in revenues were new awards in the upstream area of this market relating to oil sands extraction projects. Also contributing to the increase in revenues was a $1,145.2 million increase in pass-through costs. When we
are responsible for subcontract labor or  
       
   Page 30   

Table of Contents  

third-party materials and equipment, we reflect the costs of such items in both revenues and costs. The level of pass-through costs included in revenues and costs will
vary between reporting periods depending principally on the amount of procurement that clients choose to do themselves as opposed to using our services as well as on the normal winding down of field services activities on construction and O M
projects.            As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were
87.4% for fiscal 2006, compared to 85.7% for fiscal 2005. The percentage relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the
reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. The increase in direct costs of contracts as a percentage of revenues was due to the increase in pass-through costs combined with
slightly lower fees from our engineering services, off-set in part by slightly higher fees from field services. Since pass-through costs (which are incurred primarily on projects requiring field services) typically do not generate significant
margins, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit.            We were successful in keeping SG A growth in-line with our increased business activity during fiscal 2006. SG A expenses
during fiscal 2006 increased by $41.3 million, or 7.0%, to $632.7 million, compared to $591.4 million during fiscal 2005. Contributing to the increase in SG A expenses was increased professional technical services activity and the
effects of foreign currency translation. SG A expense as a percentage of revenue decreased from 10.5% in fiscal 2005 to 8.5% in fiscal 2006. SG A expense as a percentage of gross margin decreased from 73.3% in fiscal 2005 to 67.7% in fiscal
2006. Contributing to the decrease in these relationships is the result of increased field services activity, which generally requires less SG A expense to support.            Operating profit for fiscal 2006 increased by $86.7 million, or 40.3%, to $301.6 million, compared to $214.9 million
during fiscal 2005. The increase in operating profit during fiscal 2006 as compared to last year was due to the overall increase in business activity. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 4.1% for fiscal 2006 compared to 3.8% in fiscal
2005. Notwithstanding the increase in the direct costs of contracts as a percentage of revenue, the Company was able to increase its operating profit by limiting the increase in SG A expenses.            Interest income increased by $10.9 million to $15.2 million during fiscal
2006, compared to $4.3 million of interest income during fiscal 2005. Included in interest income for fiscal 2006 is $3.3 million relating to the favorable settlement of a matter with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ). The
balance of the increase in interest income was a result of higher cash balances on deposit during fiscal 2006 as compared to last year. Interest expense increased by $1.0 million to $7.5 million during fiscal 2006, compared to
$6.5 million of interest expense during fiscal 2005. The increase in interest expense is due primarily to higher levels of borrowing by our operations outside the U.S. (in support of the growth in business) combined with slightly higher
interest rates.            We recorded income tax expense of $108.4 million
during fiscal 2006, compared to $77.9 million during fiscal 2005. Our overall effective tax rate was 35.5% during fiscal 2006 compared to 37.2% last year. The overall effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 was impacted by the favorable settlement
of a matter with the IRS, off-set in part by provisions recorded for certain other income tax exposures. The net effect of the IRS settlement and the other income tax exposures was a net reduction to the Company s income tax expense of $1.5
million. Impacting the overall effective tax rate for fiscal 2005 was certain stock-based compensation expense amounts relating to the Company s employee stock purchase plans where no tax benefit was available to the Company. In the normal
course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain.  
       
   Page 31   

Table of Contents  

Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the
Internal Revenue Service, most states in the United States, and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the United States. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in
the period it is probable that actual results will differ from our estimates.              Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004        We recorded net earnings of $131.6 million, or $2.24 per diluted share, for fiscal year
ended September 30, 2005, compared to net earnings of $115.6 million, or $2.01 per diluted share for fiscal 2004.            Total revenues for fiscal 2005 increased by $1.0 billion, or 22.7%, to $5.6 billion, compared to total revenues of $4.6 billion for fiscal 2004.
Revenues increased among most of the industry groups and markets we serve, lead by a 54.1% increase in revenues from clients operating in the oil   gas and refining industries, and a 52.3% increase in revenues from clients operating in the
infrastructure market. The increase in revenues from our clients operating in the oil   gas and refining industries was due primarily to continuing projects we re executing in the area of clean fuels, combined with new awards of
projects assisting refiners improve and enhance capacity. Also contributing to the increase in revenues were new awards in the upstream area of this market relating to oil sands extraction projects. The increase in revenues from clients operating in
the infrastructure market was due primarily to the inclusion of the Babtie Group for all of fiscal 2005. The Babtie Group contributed approximately $324.1 million of revenue during fiscal 2005, compared to approximately $54.0 million
during fiscal 2004 (the Babtie Group was acquired during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004). Also contributing to the increase in revenues was a $369.8 million increase in pass-through costs.            As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.7% for fiscal 2005,
compared to 85.5% for fiscal 2004. The increase in direct costs of contracts as a percentage of revenues was due to the increase in pass-through costs, off-set in part by the inclusion of the Babtie Group for all of fiscal 2005 (whose revenues are
weighted towards project services).            SG A expenses during fiscal 2005
increased by $105.3 million, or 21.7%, to $591.4 million, compared to $486.1 million during fiscal 2004. Contributing to the increase in SG A expenses during fiscal 2005 was the inclusion of the Babtie Group for the entire year. The
Babtie Group contributed approximately $89.6 million of SG A expenses during fiscal 2005, versus approximately $13.5 million of SG A expenses during fiscal 2004. The balance of the increase was due primarily to the effects of
foreign currency translation, and higher spending in support of our professional technical services activities.            Operating profit for fiscal 2005 increased by $36.3 million, or 20.4%, to $214.9 million, compared to $178.6 million during fiscal 2004. The increase
in operating profit during fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 was due to the overall increase in business activity. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 3.8% for fiscal 2005 compared to 3.9% for fiscal 2004. In spite of the
significant increase in pass-through costs, the Company was able to maintain its level of operating profit by limiting the increase in SG A expenses.            Interest income increased by $1.3 million to $4.3 million during fiscal 2005, compared to $3.1 million of interest income during fiscal 2004. The
increase in interest income was due primarily to higher cash balances on deposit during fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. Interest expense increased by $2.9 million to $6.5 million during fiscal 2005, compared to $3.6 million of
interest expense during fiscal 2004. The increase in interest expense reflects the effects of the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Babtie Group being outstanding for all of fiscal 2005, versus only a portion of fiscal 2004.
        
   Page 32   

Table of Contents  

   We recorded income tax expense of $77.9 million during fiscal 2005, compared to $63.1 million during
fiscal 2004. Our overall effective tax rate was 37.2% for fiscal 2005 and 35.3% for fiscal 2004. The overall effective tax rates in 2005 and 2004 were impacted by certain stock based compensation expense amounts relating to the Company s
employee stock purchase plans where no tax benefit was available to the Company. Also affecting the increase in our overall tax rate during fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 was the effects of the non-deductibility for tax purposes of the
amortization of intangible assets we acquired in connection with the Babtie Group, combined with a shift in earnings among our non-U.S. operations.              Contractual Obligations        The following table sets forth certain
information about our contractual obligations as of September 30, 2006 (in thousands):         

(a)  
     
  Assumes the Company will make end of lease term residual value guarantee payments (included in the  more than 5 years  column) with respect to the lease of two office buildings in
Houston, Texas.           

(b)  
     
  Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2007, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but
limited to the amount recorded as of September 30, 2006. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements.           

(c)  
     
  Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2006, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are
based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of September 30, 2006.           

(d)  
     
  Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of September 30, 2006.                Backlog        The following table
summarizes our backlog at September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004 (in millions):         
          Because the entire value of
contracts is added to backlog as soon as the contracts are awarded to us (rather than adding the contracts to backlog gradually over time), and many of our contracts require  
       
   Page 33   

Table of Contents  

us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years), we evaluate our backlog on a year-over-year basis, rather than on
a sequential, quarter-over-quarter basis. Our backlog at September 30, 2006 increased by $1.1 billion, or 13.1%, to $9.8 billion from $8.6 billion at September 30, 2005. The increase in backlog during fiscal 2006 was
attributable primarily to new awards from clients operating within the oil   gas and the chemical and polymer industry groups and markets.            In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. However, we
have not experienced cancellations that have had a material effect on the reported backlog amounts. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of
termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope
of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein.            Total backlog at September 30, 2006 included approximately $2.2 billion, or 22.3% of total backlog, relating to work to be performed either directly or
indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies. This compares to approximately $2.2 billion, or 25.3% of total backlog, and $2.3 billion, or 30.2% of total backlog, of U.S. federal backlog at September 30, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the
procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts).            Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A  Risk Factors , above, we estimate that approximately $6.4 billion, or 65.1% of total backlog at September 30, 2006 will be realized as revenues within the
next fiscal year.              Effects of Inflation        Refer to Item 1A  Risk Factors , above.              Liquidity and Capital Resources        We finance our operations
primarily through cash provided by operations. At September 30, 2006, our principal source of liquidity consisted of $434.1 million of cash and cash equivalents, and $212.3 million of available capacity under our $290.0 million
unsecured, revolving credit facility discussed below.            During fiscal
2006, our cash and cash equivalents increased by $194.2 million, to $434.1 million. This compares to an increase in cash and cash equivalents of $139.8 million during fiscal 2005, and a decrease of $26.1 million during fiscal
2004. During fiscal 2006, we experienced net cash inflows from operating activities and financing activities of $223.5 million and $48.3 million, respectively. These inflows were offset in part by net cash outflows from investing
activities and the effect of exchange rate changes of $67.6 million and $10.1 million, respectively.            Our operations provided net cash of $223.5 million during fiscal 2006. This compares to net cash inflows of $150.3 million and $86.8 million during fiscal
2005 and 2004, respectively. The $73.2 million increase in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 was due primarily to a $65.3 million increase in net earnings, a $10.4 million increase relating to the timing of
cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts, a $7.5 million change in deferred income taxes, and an increase of $1.9 million in depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and improvements  
       
   Page 34   

Table of Contents  

(a non-cash expense). These increases in cash flows from operations were offset in part by a decrease      in certain non-cash items including a $10.7 million decrease in stock-based compensation and a $0.8 million change in the excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation.            We used $67.6 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during
fiscal 2006; virtually unchanged from the $68.3 million of cash and cash equivalents used last year. Although $27.1 million less cash was used during fiscal 2006 relating to miscellaneous, non-current assets as compared to last year, this
reduction was almost entirely off-set by a $10.1 million increase in purchases of property and equipment and an $11.0 million increase in cash used to acquire businesses. We used $203.1 million of cash and cash equivalents for
investing activities during fiscal 2004; approximately $135 million more than the amount used during either fiscal 2006 or 2005. The higher amount of cash and cash equivalents used for investing activities during fiscal 2004 was due primarily
to cash used in connection with the acquisition of the Babtie Group.            Our
financing activities resulted in net cash inflows of $48.3 million during fiscal 2006. This compares to net cash inflows of $60.7 million and $92.3 million during fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. The $12.4 million decrease in cash flows from
financing activities during fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 was due primarily to a $29.9 million increase in repayments, net of borrowings, under our long-term credit facilities, combined with a $7.7 million decrease in proceeds from
issuances of common stock through our stock option and stock purchase plans. This reduction in cash inflows was partially offset by changes in other deferred liability accounts of $21.9 million (relating primarily to accrued pension liabilities) and
an increase in short term borrowings, net of repayments, of $2.5 million.            We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. We had $434.1 million in cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2006, compared to
$239.8 million at September 30, 2005. Our consolidated working capital position at September 30, 2006 was $776.8 million, compared to $552.3 million at September 30, 2005. We have a long-term, unsecured revolving credit
facility providing up to $290.0 million of debt capacity, under which only $77.7 million was utilized at September 30, 2006 in the form of direct borrowings. We believe that the capacity, terms and conditions of our long-term
revolving credit facility is adequate for our working capital and general business requirements. We also had, at September 30, 2006, $36.0 million of borrowing capacity available to us through committed, short-term credit facilities.
             New Accounting Pronouncements        In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 .
FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a company s financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for financial statement
disclosure of tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, on an entity s tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition; classification; interest and penalties; accounting in interim periods; disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006 (fiscal 2008 for the Company). We are currently evaluating whether FIN 48 will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.            In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132R . SFAS 158 requires companies to (i) recognize the funded statuses of their single-employer, defined benefit postretirement
plans as assets or liabilities in their balance sheets; (ii) recognize as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses that arise during the period being reported but are not recognized as a component of periodic
benefit cost under existing accounting rules; and  
       
   Page 35   

Table of Contents  

(iii) measure defined benefit pension plan assets and obligations as of the date of the sponsor s balance sheet. We are required to initially recognize the
funded statuses of our defined benefit postretirement plans and to provide the required disclosures as of the end of our first fiscal year ending after December 15, 2006 (i.e., September 30, 2007). The provisions SFAS 158 relating to the
change in measurement date of the assets and obligations of our defined benefit pension plans is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008 (i.e., September 30, 2009 for us). We are currently evaluating whether SFAS 158 will
have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.             
  Item 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK             We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course
of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates.              Interest Rate Risk        Our only source for long-term credit is a
$290.0 million syndicated revolving credit facility. The total amount outstanding under this facility at September 30, 2006 was $77.7 million. This agreement expires in December 2010, and provides for both fixed-rate and variable-rate
borrowings. Our objectives in managing our interest rate risk are to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we continuously monitor changes in
interest rates, and use cash provided from operations to re-pay our borrowings as quickly as possible. Furthermore, the company can use a combination of both fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage our exposure to interest rate risk.   
          Foreign Currency Risk        In general, our exposure to fluctuating exchange rates relates to the effects of translating the financial statements of our subsidiaries operating outside the
United States, which are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, into the U.S. dollar. We follow the provisions of SFAS No. 52  Foreign Currency Translation  in preparing our consolidated financial statements.
           We believe our exposure to the effects that fluctuating foreign
currencies may have on our consolidated results of operations is limited because, in general, our various operations invoice customers and satisfy their financial obligations in their respective local currencies. In situations where our operations
incur contract costs in currencies other than their own functional currencies, we strive to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs, or when appropriate, enter into foreign currency hedges to
limit our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. At September 30, 2006, the Company had      11 million
(approximately $14.0 million) of forward contracts outstanding relating to such contract revenues.            Concurrent with the acquisition of the Babtie Group, we entered into a forward contract with a large, U.S. bank in the notional amount of  39.9 million
(then, approximately $73.4 million). The purpose of the contract is to hedge the Company s exposure to fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on a  39.9 million intercompany loan between Jacobs and one of its subsidiaries.
Based on the terms of the contract, we believe the effect of the loan on future earnings at September 30, 2006 should be limited to $3.4 million of expense. In addition, we entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement with
another U.S. bank which fixes the effective rate of interest on certain bank debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Babtie Group. At September 30, 2006, the notional amount of this hedge was  20.1 million
(approximately $37.7 million). This instrument allows us to receive a floating rate payment tied to the 3-month LIBOR plus a spread from the counterparty, in exchange for a fixed-rate payment from us. Both of the aforementioned contracts
qualify as cash flow hedges under the provisions SFAS No. 133  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities .         
   Page 36   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA               The information required by this Item 8 is submitted as a separate section beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporate herein
by reference.         

Item 9.     
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE               None.         

Item 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES                 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.   The Company s management, with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as defined by Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ) as of September 30, 2006, the
end of the period covered by this annual report (the  Evaluation Date ). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective
as of the Evaluation Date.              Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting.   Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Management, with the participation of its
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of the Evaluation Date based on the framework established in   Internal
Control Integrated Framework  , issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that the internal controls of the Company over its financial reporting as
of the Evaluation Date were effective.                   Changes in Internal
Control.             There were no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting during the Company s
fourth quarter ended September 30, 2006, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.                   Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls.             The Company s management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that its disclosure controls and procedures or its
system of internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed or operated, can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the
system of internal control are met. The design of the Company s control system reflects the fact that there are resource constraints, and that the benefits of such control system must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of
the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control failures and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the
realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the intentional acts of individuals, by collusion of two or more people, or by
management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that the design of any particular control will always succeed
in achieving its objective under all potential future conditions.         
   Page 37   

Table of Contents  

          Reports of Others.             Ernst   Young LLP ( Ernst   Young ) is the Company s independent registered public accounting firm. Ernst   Young has
audited the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of September 30, 2006 and 2005 and for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006, as well as management s assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006. Ernst   Young has issued an attestation report on management s assessment
of the Company s internal control over financial reporting, which is set forth below following the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. Ernst   Young conducted its audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), and its reports have been included in this annual report.             
  Item 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION             None.         
   Page 38   

Table of Contents  

PART III          

Item 10.   
   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT               The information required by Paragraph (a), and Paragraphs (c) through (j) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K (except for information required by Paragraph
(e) of Item 401 to the extent the required information pertains to our executive officers, which is set forth below) is hereby incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation
14A within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year.              Executive Officers of the
Registrant        The following table presents the information required by Paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K.         
          All of the officers listed in
the preceding table serve in their respective capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and, with the exception of Mr. Mitchell, and Ms. Summers, have served in executive and senior management capacities with the Company for
more than five years.            Prior to joining the Company in 2004,
Mr. Mitchell served as the Chief Executive of the Babtie Group Limited since 1996. Prior to joining the Company in 2004, Ms. Summers served as corporate vice president of compensation, benefits and executive development for Northrop
Grumman  
       
   Page 39   

Table of Contents  

Corporation from January 2000 to April 2003. From June 1999 to January 2000, Ms. Summers served as vice president of performance, rewards and benefits for
Healthnet, Inc. From September 1991 to June 1999, Ms Summers served in various management and senior management roles for Sempra Energy.            We have adopted a code of ethics for our chief executive, chief financial and principal accounting officers; a code of business conduct and ethics for members of
our Board of Directors; and corporate governance guidelines. The full text of the codes of ethics and corporate governance guidelines is available at our website www.jacobs.com. In the event we make any amendment to, or grant any waiver from, a
provision of the code of ethics that applies to the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer that requires disclosure under applicable Commission rules, we will disclose such amendment or waiver and
the reasons therefor on our website. We will provide any person without charge a copy of any of the aforementioned codes of ethics upon receipt of a written request. Requests should be addressed to: Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., 1111 S. Arroyo
Parkway, Pasadena, California, 91105, Attention: Corporate Secretary.         

Item 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION               The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A
within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year.         

Item 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS               Certain information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year. Other information required by this Item is submitted in a separate section of this Form 10-K. See Item 5., above.         

Item 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS               The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A
within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year.         

Item 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES               The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A
within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year.         
   Page 40   

Table of Contents  

PART IV              
  Item 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES          

(a)  
     
  Documents filed as part of this report:           

(1)  
     
  The Company s Consolidated Financial Statements at September 30, 2006 and 2005 and for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006 and the notes thereto,
together with the report of the independent auditors on those Consolidated Financial Statements are hereby filed as part of this report, beginning on page F-1.           

(2)  
     
  Financial statement schedules no financial statement schedules are presented as the required information is either not applicable, or is included in the consolidated financial statements
or notes thereto.           

(3)  
     
  See Exhibits and Index to Exhibits, below.           

(b)  
     
  Exhibits and Index to Exhibits:     

2.1  
      
  Recommended offer for Babtie Group Limited by a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.; and Agreement for the Sale and Purchase of Certain Shares in Babtie Group Limited. Filed as
Exhibit 2.2 to the Registrants Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference.   

3.1  
      
  Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended. Filed as Exhibit 3 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2003 and incorporated herein by
reference.   

3.2  
      
  Bylaws of the Registrant. Filed as Exhibit 5.03 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 1, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference.   

4.1  
      
  See Sections 5 through 18 of Exhibit 3.1.   

4.2  
      
  See Article II, Section 3.03 of Article III, Article VI and Section 8.04 of Article VIII of Exhibit 3.2.   

4.3  
      
  Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, amended and restated as of December 20, 2000 by and between the Registrant and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as Rights Agent. Filed as Exhibit 1 to
Registrant s Form 8-A/A filed on December 22, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference.   

10.1  
      
  The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. Incentive Bonus Plan for Officers and Key Managers.   

10.2  
      
  The Executive Security Program of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.   

10.3  
      
  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 1991 Executive Deferral Plan, effective June 1, 1991.   

10.4  
      
  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 1993 Executive Deferral Plan, effective December 1, 1993.   

10.5  
      
  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. Amended and Restated Executive Deferral Plan. Filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant s Annul Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2001
and incorporated herein by reference.   

10.6  
      
  The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as Amended and Restated.   

10.7  
      
  The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed by the Registrant on August 7, 2001, and incorporated herein
by reference.   
       
   Page 41   

Table of Contents  

10.8  
      
  Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between the Registrant and certain of its officers and directors. Filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant s Annul Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended September 30, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference.   

10.9  
      
  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 401(k) Plus Savings Plan and Trust, as Amended and Restated August 1, 2000. Filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the Company s Annul Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended September 30, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.   

10.10  
      
  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated. Filed as Exhibit 4.4 to the Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed by the Registrant on March 18, 2006, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.11  
      
  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 1999 Outside Director Stock Plan. Filed as Exhibit II to the Registrant s Annual Notice and Proxy Statement dated January 3, 2000 and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.12  
      
  Credit Agreement dated as of December 15, 2005 among Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries (as  Borrowers ), and the Bank of Nova Scotia, Wachovia Bank N.A., BNP
Paribas., Bank of America, N.A. (as  Administrative Agent ), and other lender parties, and Banc of America Securities LLC (as  Sole Lead Arranger ).   

10.13  
      
  Assignment Letter Agreement dated February 16, 2005 between the Registrant and Thomas R. Hammond, Executive Vice President. Filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant s current report on Form 8-K
dated February 22, 2005   

11.  
      
  Statement of computation of net income per outstanding share of common stock is incorporated by reference from the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto (see Item 15(a)(1),
above).   

14.  
      
  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers. Filed as Exhibit 14 to the Registrant s Annul Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended September 30, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference.   

21.  
      
  List of Subsidiaries of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.   

23.  
      
  Consent of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.   

31.1  
      
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

31.2  
      
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

32.1  
      
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

32.2  
      
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

Being filed herewith.                 
   Page 42   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES             Pursuant to the requirements of
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.         

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.    

Dated: December 7, 2006   

By:  
     
    /s/    CRAIG L. MARTIN             

Craig L. Martin     President, Chief Executive Officer, Director     (Principal Executive Officer)    
          Pursuant to the requirements of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:         

Signature     
      
     Title     
      
   Date      

/s/    CRAIG L. MARTIN              Craig L. Martin   
      
  President, Chief Executive Officer and Director  
      
  December 7, 2006   

/s/    NOEL G. WATSON              Noel G. Watson   
      
    Chairman of     the
Board   
      
  December 7, 2006   

/s/    JOSEPH R. BRONSON              Joseph R. Bronson   
      
  Director  
      
  December 7, 2006   

Robert C. Davidson, Jr.   
      
  Director  

/s/    EDWARD V. FRITZKY              Edward V. Fritzky   
      
  Director  
      
  December 7, 2006   

/s/    ROBERT B. GWYN              Robert B. Gwyn   
      
  Director  
      
  December 7, 2006   

/s/    LINDA K. JACOBS              Linda K. Jacobs   
      
  Director  
      
  December 7, 2006   

/s/    DALE R. LAURANCE              Dale R. Laurance   
      
  Director  
      
  December 7, 2006   

/s/    LINDA FAYNE LEVINSON            Linda Fayne Levinson   
      
  Director  
      
  December 7, 2006   

/s/    BENJAMIN F. MONTOYA              Benjamin F. Montoya   
      
  Director  
      
  December 7, 2006   
       
   Page 43   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES Continued          

Signature     
      
     Title     
      
   Date      

/s/    THOMAS M.T. NILES              Thomas M.T. Niles   
      
  Director  
      
  December 7, 2006   

/s/    DAVID M. PETRONE              David M. Petrone   
      
  Director  
      
  December 7, 2006   

/s/    JOHN W. PROSSER, JR.           
  John W. Prosser, Jr.   
      
    Executive Vice President,     Finance and Administration and Treasurer     (Principal Financial Officer)   
      
  December 7, 2006   

/s/    NAZIM G. THAWERBHOY            Nazim G. Thawerbhoy   
      
    Senior Vice President and Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)   
      
  December 7, 2006   
             
   Page 44   

Table of Contents  

          JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS              WITH REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM              September 30, 2006                      
   F-1   

Table of Contents  

    JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              
  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS              September 30, 2006          
       
   F-2   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS              September 30, 2006
and 2005        (In thousands, except share information)          

(a)  
     
  Adjusted to include the effects of stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS 123R using the modified retrospective application method of adoption.              See the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   F-3   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS              For the Years
Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004        (In thousands, except per share information  )          
           
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME              For the Years Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004        (In thousands)          

(a)  
     
  Adjusted to include the effects of stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS 123R using the modified retrospective application method of adoption.              See the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   F-4   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY              For the Years Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004        (In thousands  )          

(a)  
     
  Adjusted to include the effects of stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS 123R using the modified retrospective application method of adoption.                    See the
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   F-5   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS              For the Years
Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004        (In thousands)          

(a)  
     
  Adjusted to include the effects of stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS 123R using the modified retrospective application method of adoption. Additionally, certain fiscal
2004 and 2005 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2006 presentation.              See the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   F-6   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS              1.    Description of Business and Basis of Presentation               Description of Business        Our principal business is to provide a broad range of technical, professional, and
construction services. Such services include engineering, design, and architectural services; construction and construction management services; operations and maintenance services; and process, scientific, and systems consulting services. We
provide our services through offices and subsidiaries located primarily in North America, Europe, Asia, Scandinavia, and Australia. We provide our services under cost-reimbursable, cost-reimbursable with a guaranteed maximum price, and fixed-price
contracts. The percentage of revenues realized from each of these types of contracts for each fiscal year ended September 30 was as follows:         
            Basis of Presentation
       The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the parent company, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., and its subsidiaries. As
used herein, references to the  Company ,  we ,  us  or  our  are to both Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, and references to  Jacobs  relate to the parent company
only. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain amounts in the fiscal 2004 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2006 form of
presentation.             2.    Significant Accounting Policies
              Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures
       In accounting for long-term engineering and construction-type contracts, we follow the provisions of the AICPA s Statement of Position
81-1  Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts  ( SOP 81-1 ). In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we
recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. Contract losses are provided for in their entirety
in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage-of-completion. We also recognize as revenues costs associated with claims and unapproved change orders to the extent it is probable that such claims and change orders will result in
additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated.            Certain cost-reimbursable contracts include incentive-fee arrangements. Such fees can be based on the achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and/or
other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project. We recognize incentive fees based on
expected results using the percentage-of-completion basis. As the contract progresses and more information becomes available, the estimate of the anticipated incentive fee that will be earned will be revised, if necessary. We bill incentive fees
based on the terms and conditions of the individual contracts. In certain situations we are allowed to bill a portion of the incentive fees over the performance period of the contract. In other situations, we are allowed to bill incentive fees only
after the target criterion has been achieved. Incentive fees which have been recognized but not billed are included in receivables as unbilled in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.         
   F-7   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Certain cost-reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide
that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. Revenues are not recognized for
non-recoverable costs. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly.
           As is common to the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with
third parties through various forms of joint ventures. In general, such contracts fall within the scope of SOP 81-1. We therefore account for these investments in accordance with SOP 81-1 and Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 00-01  Investor
Balance Sheet and Income Statement Display under the Equity Method for Investments in Certain Partnerships and Other Ventures . Accordingly, for certain of these joint ventures (i.e., where we have an undivided interest in the assets and
liabilities of the joint venture), we recognize our proportionate share of joint venture revenues, costs and operating profit in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For other investments in engineering and construction joint ventures, we use
the equity method of accounting.            Very few of our joint ventures have
employees. Although the joint ventures own and hold the contracts with the clients, the services required by the contracts are typically performed by us and our joint venture partners, or by other subcontractors under subcontracting agreements with
the joint ventures. The assets of our joint ventures, therefore, consist almost entirely of cash and receivables (representing amounts due from the clients); and the liabilities of our joint ventures consist almost entirely of amounts due to the
joint venture partners (for services provided by the partners to the joint ventures) and other subcontractors. In general, at any given time, the equity of our joint ventures represents the undistributed profits earned under the contracts with
clients. None of our joint ventures have third-party debt or credit facilities. Our joint ventures, therefore, are simply mechanisms used to deliver engineering and construction services to clients. They do not, in and of themselves, present any
risk of loss to us or to our partners. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, our share of losses associated with the contracts held by the joint ventures, if and when they occur, has always been reflected in our
consolidated financial statements.            In accordance with the provisions of
FASB Interpretation No. 46R  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  ( FIN 46 ), we have analyzed our joint ventures and have classified them into two groups: the first group consists of those variable interest entities
( VIEs ) of which we are the primary beneficiary of the VIEs  expected residual returns or losses; the second group consists of those VIEs of which we are not the primary beneficiary of the VIEs  expected residual returns or
losses. In accordance with FIN 46, we apply the consolidation method of accounting for our investment in material VIEs of which we are the primary beneficiary.         
  At September 30, 2006, the total assets and liabilities of those VIEs for which we are the primary beneficiary were $90.9 million and
$77.2 million, respectively, as compared to total assets of $94.4 million and total liabilities of $79.9 million at September 30, 2005. At September 30, 2006, the total assets and liabilities of those VIEs for which we are
not the primary beneficiary were $94.8 million and $95.1 million, respectively, as compared to total assets of $105.4 million and total liabilities of $103.9 million at September 30, 2005.            When we are directly responsible for subcontractor labor or third-party materials and
equipment, we reflect the costs of such items in both revenues and costs. On those projects where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts  
       
   F-8   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 are not reflected in either revenues or costs. The amount of such  pass-through  costs included in revenues during fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, totaled
approximately $2.7 billion, $1.5 billion, and $1.2 billion, respectively.              Cash Equivalents        We consider all highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than three months to
be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents at September 30, 2006 and 2005 consisted primarily of money market mutual funds.              Receivables and Billings in Excess of Costs        Included in  Receivables  in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2006 and 2005 were $623.3 million and $518.6 million, respectively, of unbilled receivables. Unbilled receivables represent
costs and amounts earned and reimbursable under contracts in progress as of the date of our balance sheet. Such amounts become billable according to the contract terms, which usually consider the passage of time, achievement of certain milestones or
completion of the project. Included in these unbilled receivables at September 30, 2006 and 2005 were contract retentions totaling $34.0 million and $36.4 million, respectively. We anticipate that substantially all of such unbilled
amounts will be billed and collected over the next twelve months. Also included in receivables at September 30, 2006 and 2005 are allowances for doubtful accounts totaling $8.0 million and $7.4 million, respectively.             Billings in excess of costs  represent cash collected from clients on
contracts in advance of revenues earned thereon as well as advanced billings to clients in excess of costs and earnings on uncompleted contracts. We anticipate that substantially all such amounts will be earned over the next twelve months.
           Amounts due from the U.S. federal government included in
 Receivables  in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets totaled $159.0 million and $194.8 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.            As discussed above, we include in receivables claims representing the recovery of costs incurred on contracts to the extent it is
probable that such claims will result in additional contract revenue and the amount of such additional revenues can be reliably estimated. Such amounts totaled $42.0 million and $42.6 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
respectively, of which $33.1 million and $31.3 million, respectively, relate to one claim on a waste incineration project performed in Europe (due to the timing of when the claim may be settled, this claim is included in  Other
Noncurrent Assets  in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets). The dispute involves proper waste feed, content of residues, final acceptance of, and costs of operation and maintenance of the plant. We have initiated litigation against the
client and are seeking in excess of      40.0 million (approximately $50.8 million) in damages. The client has filed a
counterclaim against us, which we believe is without merit.              Property, Equipment and Improvements        Property, equipment and improvements are carried at cost, and are shown net of
accumulated depreciation and amortization in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Depreciation and amortization is computed primarily by using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The cost of leasehold
improvements is amortized using the straight-line method over the lesser of the estimated useful life of the asset or the remaining term of the related lease. Estimated useful lives range from 20 to 40 years for buildings, from 3 to 10 years for
equipment and from 4 to 10 years for leasehold improvements.         
   F-9   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets        Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price paid in a business combination over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill
and the cost of intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are instead evaluated annually for possible impairment. In conducting the impairment test, we may apply, in accordance with the provisions of
SFAS 142  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , various valuation techniques to estimate the fair values of our reporting units. The resulting fair values are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of
our reporting units to a willing third party. The cost of intangible assets with determinable lives is amortized ratably over the useful lives of the related assets. When events or circumstances or changes in our operations occur that could indicate
that the value of our intangible assets may be impaired, we would conduct an evaluation of the recoverability of the carrying value of our intangible assets with determinable lives to determine whether an adjustment should be made to the carrying
value of such assets or their remaining useful lives, or both. We did not recognize any goodwill or intangible asset impairment charge in fiscal 2006, 2005 or 2004.              Earnings Per Share        Earnings per share ( EPS ) is calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 128  Earnings per Share . Basic EPS is computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding
during the period. Diluted EPS gives effect to all dilutive securities that were outstanding during the period. Our dilutive securities consist of nonqualified stock options and restricted stock.              Share-Based Payment        On December 16, 2004, SFAS No. 123R  Share-Based Payment  was issued. SFAS 123R is a revision of SFAS 123  Stock-Based Compensation 
and supersedes APB 25  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees . SFAS 123R requires that we measure the value of services received in exchange for an award of an equity instrument based on the grant-date fair value of the award. The
computed value is recognized as a non-cash cost over the period the employee provides services, which is typically the vesting period of the award.            We adopted SFAS 123R effective October 1, 2005 under the modified retrospective application method. Accordingly, we have adjusted our prior financial
statements to include the amounts we reported previously in the pro forma disclosures made under SFAS 123.            The fair value of each option was estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:
        
          With respect to the issuance of
restricted stock, the cost of unearned compensation equivalent to the fair value of the stock issued on the date of award is amortized against earnings over the periods during which the restrictions lapse. The adoption of SFAS 123R had no
material effect on our method of accounting for restricted stock awards. Total pre-tax compensation cost relating to restricted stock awards included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the fiscal years ended 2006, 2005, and
2004 was $2.1 million, $1.2 million, and $0.8 million, respectively.         
   F-10   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The cumulative effect of the adoption of SFAS 123R at September 30, 2005 caused the recognition of a
long-term deferred tax asset (included in  Other Noncurrent Assets  in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets) of $25.1 million, and a $25.1 million increase in stockholders  equity.              Concentrations of Credit Risk        Our cash balances and short-term investments are maintained in accounts held by major banks and financial institutions located primarily in North America, Europe,
Canada, and Asia. In the normal course of business, and consistent with industry practices, we grant credit to our clients without requiring collateral. Concentrations of credit risk is the risk that, if we extend a significant amount of credit to
clients in a specific geographic area or industry, we may experience disproportionately high levels of default if those clients are adversely affected by factors particular to their geographic area or industry. Concentrations of credit risk relative
to trade receivables are limited due to our diverse client base, which includes the U.S. federal government and multi-national corporations operating in a broad range of industries and geographic areas. Additionally, in order to mitigate credit
risk, we continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our major commercial clients.              Use of Estimates        The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of certain assets and liabilities; amounts contained in certain of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements; and the revenues and
expenses reported for the periods covered by the financial statements. Although such assumptions are based on management s best knowledge of current events and actions the Company may undertake in the future, actual results could differ
significantly from those estimates and assumptions.            Earlier in these
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we discussed two significant accounting policies that rely on the application of estimates and assumptions: revenue accounting for contracts; and the process for testing goodwill for possible impairment.
The following is a discussion of certain other significant accounting policies that rely on the use of estimates:             Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others  As discussed above, we use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to compute the fair value of stock
options we grant to employees and others. The Black-Scholes model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. Like all option-pricing models, the Black-Scholes
model requires the use of highly subjective assumptions including (i) the expected volatility of the market price of the underlying stock, and (ii) the expected term of the award, among others. Accordingly, changes in assumptions and any
subsequent adjustments to those assumptions can cause drastically different fair values to be assigned to our stock option awards. Additionally, the effects of SFAS 123R on our current consolidated financial statements may not be representative of
the effects on our future consolidated financial statements because option awards tend to vest over several years and additional awards of stock options may be made in the future.             Accounting for Pensions  In accounting for pensions, we follow the provisions of SFAS No. 87  Employers 
Accounting for Pensions.  SFAS 87 requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost, and the value of the plans  assets and liabilities. These assumptions involve discount rates; investment
returns; and projected salary increases, among others. We rely on qualified actuaries to assist us in valuing the financial position of the plans, and to provide advice regarding the actuarial assumptions used. Changes in the actuarial assumptions
may have a material affect on the plans  assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense.         
   F-11   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Accounting for Income Taxes  We account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS
No. 109  Accounting for Income Taxes . Judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the normal course of business, we may engage in numerous transactions every day for which the ultimate tax outcome
(including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in taxable income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax
returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the United States, and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the United States.             Insurance Matters, Litigation, Claims, and Contingencies  In the normal
course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. In accordance with SFAS No. 5  Accounting for Contingencies , we record in the Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated
liability relating to such claims, guarantees, litigation, and audits and investigations. We rely on qualified actuaries to assist us in determining the level of reserves to establish for both insurance-related claims that are known and have been
asserted against us as well as for insurance-related claims that are believed to have been incurred based on actuarial analysis, but have not yet been reported to our claims administrators as of the respective balance sheet dates. We include any
adjustments to such insurance reserves in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings.              Fair Value of Financial Instruments        The net carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents; receivables; and notes
payable approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments. Similarly, we believe the carrying value of our long-term debt also approximates fair value based on the interest rates and scheduled maturities applicable to the
outstanding borrowings. Certain other assets and liabilities, such as the forward contract and an interest rate swap agreement we purchased as cash-flow hedges (discussed below), are required to be carried in our consolidated financial statements at
fair value. The fair values of such instruments are determined based on market information made available to us, and were not significant at September 30, 2006 and 2005.             3.    Stock Purchase and Stock Option Plans               Broad-Based, Employee Stock Purchase Plans        We sponsor two, broad-based, shareholder-approved employee stock purchase plans: the Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  1989 ESPP ) and the Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. Global
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  GESPP ). Both plans give employees the right to purchase shares of the common stock of Jacobs.            Prior to fiscal 2006, the price paid for a share of stock by employees participating in the 1989 ESPP and GESPP varied by plan, but in general could not be less
than the lower of (i) 90% of the common stock s closing market price on the first day of the option period, or (ii) 90% of the common stock s closing market price on the last day of the option period (the  option
period  was a period of time (typically six months) during which employees deferred monies from their base salaries which would be used to purchase shares under the plans). During fiscal 2005, in anticipation of the Company having to adopt SFAS
123R, certain amendments were made to both plans that limited the discount employees received. Therefore, beginning in fiscal 2006, the discount received by employees purchasing shares of common stock through these plans is limited to 5% of the
per-share market value on the day shares are sold to employees.         
   F-12   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table summarizes the stock issuance activity under the 1989 ESPP and the GESPP during each fiscal
year ended September 30:         
          At September 30, 2006,
there were 586,907 shares reserved for issuance under the 1989 ESPP, and there were 371,361 shares reserved for issuance under the GESPP.              Stock Option Plans        We sponsor two, continuing,
shareholder-approved stock option plans: the 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (the  1999 SIP ) and the 1999 Outside Director Stock Plan (the  1999 OSDP ). The 1999 SIP provides for the issuance of incentive stock options, nonqualified
stock options and restricted stock to employees. The 1999 OSDP provides for awards of stock and restricted stock, and grants of nonqualified stock options to our outside (i.e., nonemployee) directors. The 1999 SIP and the 1999 OSDP (together, the
 1999 Plans ) replaced our 1981 Executive Incentive Plan (the  1981 Plan ). The following table sets forth certain information about the 1999 Plans:         
          The number of shares of common
stock that may be awarded under the 1999 SIP in the form of restricted stock is limited to 1,560,000 shares, and shares of restricted stock that are subsequently forfeited become available again for issuance as restricted stock. At
September 30, 2006, there was a total of 1,275,720 shares of common stock that remained available for issuance in the form of restricted stock under the 1999 SIP.         
   F-13   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table summarizes the stock option activity under the 1999 Stock Option Plans and the 1981 Plan
for each fiscal year ended September 30:         
          Options outstanding at
September 30, 2006 consisted entirely of nonqualified stock options. Included in the number of options outstanding at September 30, 2006 were options to purchase 527,293 shares of common stock granted under the 1981 Plan. Certain other
information regarding our stock option plans follows:         
       
   F-14   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table presents certain information regarding options outstanding, and options exercisable at
September 30, 2006:         
          Our stock option plans allow
participants to satisfy the exercise price by tendering shares of Jacobs common stock that have been owned by the participants for at least six months. Shares so tendered are retired and canceled, and are shown as repurchases of common stock in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity.            At
September 30, 2006, the amount of compensation cost relating to nonvested awards not yet recognized in the financial statements is approximately $33.0 million. The majority of the unrecognized compensation costs will be recognized by the third
quarter of fiscal 2008.            During the fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, we
issued 77,480, 104,550, and 29,000 shares, respectively, of restricted stock under our stock options plans. The restrictions generally relate to the recipient s ability to sell or otherwise transfer the stock. There are also restrictions that
subject the stock to forfeiture back to us until earned by the recipient through continued employment or service.             4.    Earnings Per Share             The following table reconciles the denominator used to compute basic EPS to the denominator used to compute diluted EPS for each fiscal year ended September 30
(in thousands):         
       
   F-15   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    5.    Property, Equipment and Improvements, Net             The following table presents the components of our property, equipment and
improvements at September 30, 2006 and 2005 (in thousands):         
          Operating expenses include
provisions for depreciation and amortization of $40.6 million, $38.7 million, and $33.0 million for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.             6.    Borrowings               Short-Term Credit Arrangements        At
September 30, 2006, we had approximately $36.0 million available through multiple, committed bank lines of credit, under which we may borrow on an overdraft or short-term basis. Interest under these lines is determined at the time of
borrowing based on the banks  prime or base rates, rates paid on certificates of deposit, the banks  actual costs of funds or other variable rates. Most of the agreements require the payment of a fee based on the amount of the facility.
Some of the agreements require us to be in compliance with the covenants, terms and conditions contained in our long-term, revolving credit facility (discussed below). Other agreements require us to maintain certain minimum levels of working capital
and net worth.            The following table presents certain information
regarding our lines of credit, both committed and uncommitted, for each fiscal year ended September 30 (dollars in thousands):         
            Long-term Debt and Credit
Arrangements        Amounts shown as  Long-term Debt  in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets represent borrowings under our
$290.0 million, long-term, revolving credit facility. The facility expires in December 2010, and provides for unsecured borrowings by banks (a syndicate consisting of U.S., Canadian, and European banks) at either fixed rates offered by the
banks at the time of borrowing on loans not greater than 12 months, or at variable rates based on the agent bank s base rate, LIBOR or the latest federal funds rate. The agreement contains certain negative covenants relating to the  
       
   F-16   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 Company s  consolidated net worth , and a  leverage ratio  based on outstanding borrowings (including financial letters of credit) and
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (all as defined in the agreement). The agreement requires us to pay a facility fee based on the total amount of the commitments. During fiscal 2006 and 2005, the weighted average
interest rates charged on these borrowings were 4.55% and 4.30%, respectively.            Interest payments made during fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, totaled $5.9 million, $5.2 million, and $2.4 million, respectively.             7.    Pension Plans               Company-Only Sponsored Plans        We sponsor various
defined benefit pension plans covering employees of certain U.S. and international subsidiaries. The one remaining U.S. pension plan, which was acquired in connection with the 1999 merger with Sverdrup Corporation, was frozen in 1999 allowing no new
participants to enter.            The pension plans provide pension benefits that
are based on the employee s compensation and years of service. Our funding policy is to fund the actuarially determined accrued benefits, allowing for projected compensation increases using the projected unit method.            The following table sets forth the change in the plans  combined net benefit
obligation for each fiscal year ended September 30 (in thousands):         
          The following table sets forth
the change in the combined fair value of the plans  assets for each fiscal year ended September 30 (in thousands):         
       
   F-17   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table reconciles the combined funded statuses of the plans as well as amounts recognized and not
recognized in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2006 and 2005 (in thousands):         
          The following table presents the
amounts recognized in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2006 and 2005 (in thousands):         
          The following table presents the
significant actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans for each fiscal year ended September 30:         
          We consider various factors in
developing the estimates for the expected, long-term rates of return on plan assets. These factors include the projected, long-term rates of returns on the various types of assets in which the plans invest, as well as historical returns. The range
of 5.0% to 9.0% expected rate of return used in the current valuation of the funded status of the plans was determined after considering the aforementioned factors. In general, investment allocations are determined by each plan s trustees
and/or investment committees. The objectives of the plans  investment policies are to (i) maximize returns while preserving capital; (ii) provide returns sufficient to meet the current and long-term obligations of the plan as the
obligations become due; and (iii) maintain a diversified portfolio of assets so as to avoid concentration of investment risk in any one type of asset, issuer or geography. None of our pension plans hold a material amount of Jacobs common stock.
The plans  weighted average asset allocations at June 30, 2006 and 2005 (the measurement dates used in valuing the plans  assets and liabilities) were as follows:         
       
   F-18   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   We anticipate our contributions into the plans for fiscal 2007 will total approximately $32.7 million.
Total benefit payments expected to be paid to the participants of our pension plans for each of the next five fiscal years, and in total for the five years thereafter, are as follows (in thousands):         
          At September 30, 2006 and
2005, our pension plans were in a net, under-funded status by $184.1 million and $228.8 million, respectively.            The following table presents the components of net periodic pension cost recognized in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each fiscal year
ended September 30 (in thousands):         
          Included in other comprehensive
income for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 are after-tax charges (credits) totaling ($22.4) million, $49.5 million, and ($6.6 million), respectively, adjusting the additional minimum liabilities relating to the pension plans. In general,
SFAS 87 requires companies to record a liability in the amount by which a pension plan s accumulated benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of its assets. This non-cash charge to stockholders  equity will be reviewed next fiscal
year in connection with the annual actuarial valuation of the pension plans and is subject to adjustment at that time.              Multiemployer Plans        In the United States and
Canada, we contribute to various trusteed pension plans covering hourly construction employees under industry-wide agreements. We also contribute to various trusteed plans in certain countries in Europe covering both hourly and certain salaried
employees. Contributions are based on the hours worked by employees covered under these agreements and are charged to direct costs of contracts on a current basis. Information from the plans  administrators is not available to permit us to
determine our share of unfunded benefits, if any. Our contributions to these plans during fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 totaled $48.8 million, $38.1 million, and $39.2 million, respectively.             8.    Savings and Deferred Compensation Plans               Savings Plans        We sponsor various defined contribution savings plans which allow participants to make voluntary contributions by salary deduction. Such plans cover substantially
all of our domestic, nonunion employees in the U.S. and are qualified under section 401(k) of the United States Internal Revenue  
       
   F-19   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 Code. Similar plans outside the U.S. cover various groups of employees of our international subsidiaries and affiliates. Several of these plans allow the Company to
match, on a voluntary basis, a portion of the employee contributions. Company contributions to these plans during fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 totaled $28.9 million, $21.5 million, and $20.4 million, respectively.              Deferred Compensation Plans        Our Executive Security Plan ( ESP ) and Executive Deferral Plans ( EDP ) are nonqualified deferred compensation programs that provide benefits
payable to directors, officers, and certain key employees or their designated beneficiaries at specified future dates, upon retirement, or death. Benefit payments under both plans are funded by a combination of contributions from participants and
the Company, and most of the participants are covered by life insurance policies with the Company designated as the beneficiary. Amounts charged to expense relating to these programs for each of the three fiscal years ended September 30, 2006,
2005, and 2004 totaled $4.2 million, $3.6 million, and $4.9 million, respectively.             9.    Income Taxes             The following
table presents the components of our consolidated income tax expense for each fiscal year ended September 30 (in thousands):         
       
   F-20   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Deferred taxes reflect the tax effects of the differences between the amounts recorded as assets and
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the comparable amounts recorded for income tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected
to reverse. The following table presents the components of our net deferred tax assets at September 30, 2006 and 2005 (in thousands):         
          During fiscal 2006, 2005, and
2004, we realized income tax benefits of $15.9 million, $15.9 million, and $2.4 million, respectively, relating to exercises of nonqualified stock options and disqualifying dispositions related to our employee stock purchase plans.
Generally, the net operating loss carryforwards of our non-U.S. operations may be carried forward indefinitely until fully utilized.            The reconciliation from the statutory U.S. federal income tax expense to the consolidated effective income tax expense for each fiscal year ended September 30
follows (dollars in thousands):         
          During fiscal 2006, 2005, and
2004, we paid approximately $86.6 million, $71.5 million, and $76.8 million, respectively, in income taxes.         
   F-21   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table presents the components of our consolidated earnings before taxes for each fiscal year
ended September 30 (in thousands):         
          United States income taxes, net
of applicable credits, have been provided on the undistributed earnings of the Company s foreign subsidiaries, except in those instances where the earnings are expected to be permanently reinvested. At September 30, 2006, approximately
$50.0 million of such undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries was expected to be permanently reinvested. Should these earnings be repatriated, approximately $5.2 million of income taxes would be payable.             10.    Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees               Commitments Under Operating Leases        We lease certain of our facilities and equipment under operating leases with net aggregate future lease payments of approximately $399.8 million at
September 30, 2006 payable as follows (in thousands):         
          Rent expense for fiscal years
2006, 2005, and 2004 totaled $82.6 million, $84.6 million, and $70.7 million, respectively, and was offset by sublease income of approximately $8.3 million, $5.5 million, and $6.9 million, respectively. Operating leases
relating to many of our major offices generally contain renewal options, and provide for additional rental based on escalation in operating expenses and real estate taxes.              Contingencies        Concurrent with the fiscal 2004 acquisition of Babtie Group Ltd. (the  Babtie Group ), we entered into a forward contract with a large, U.S. bank in the notional amount of  39.9 million (then, approximately
$73.4 million). The purpose of the contract was to hedge the exposure to fluctuating foreign-currency exchange rates on a  39.9 million intercompany loan. Based on the terms of the contract, we believe the effect of the loan on
future earnings at September 30, 2006 should be limited to $3.4 million of expense. In addition, we entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement with another U.S. bank which fixes the effective rate of interest on certain
bank debt incurred in  
       
   F-22   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 connection with the acquisition of the Babtie Group. At September 30, 2006, the notional amount of this hedge was  20.1 million (approximately
$37.7 million). This instrument allows us to receive a floating rate payment tied to the 3-month LIBOR plus a spread from the counterparty, in exchange for a fixed-rate payment from us. Additionally, the company has entered into forward
contracts to hedge foreign currency transactions related to certain contract revenues. The notional amount of these contracts at September 30, 2006 is      11.0 million (approximately $14.0 million). We ve determined these contracts to be highly effective according to the definitions of SFAS No. 133  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities . The contracts are recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values. Changes in the fair values of the derivatives are recorded in other comprehensive income and are released into earnings over the life of the
forward contract. Amounts released into earnings totaled $0.7 million in both fiscal 2006 and 2005. The fair values of the derivatives were not material at September 30, 2006 and 2005.            Letters of credit outstanding at September 30, 2006 totaled $131.7 million.
             Litigation, Performance Guarantees, and Investigations
       In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain litigation, contractual guarantees, and investigations. Most of the litigation
involves us as a defendant in workers  compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant
performance.            We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our
business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which
we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured. We intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts.            Additionally, as a contractor providing services to agencies of the United States
federal government, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to our contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations and procurement practices.
Furthermore, our income, franchise, and similar tax returns and filings are also subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states within the United States as well as by various government agencies representing
jurisdictions outside the United States and within which we operate.            Management believes, after consultation with counsel, that such guarantees, litigation, United States Government contract-related audits, investigations and claims, and income tax audits and investigations should not have any material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.            In addition to
the matters described above, we are involved in a dispute with a client relating to a large waste incineration project in Europe. The contract was entered into by one of our subsidiaries several years ago prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary.
The dispute involves proper waste feed, content of residues, final acceptance of the plant, and costs of operation and maintenance of the plant. We have initiated litigation against the client and are seeking in excess of      40.0 million (approximately $50.8 million) in damages. The client has filed a counterclaim against us, which we believe is
without merit. We believe our claims are valid and enforceable and that we will be ultimately successful in obtaining a favorable judgment.         
   F-23   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Other Guarantees        We lease certain real property located in Houston, Texas which, for the purpose of this disclosure, we refer to as  Houston Tower I . Houston Tower I consists of an office building which we use in our operations. The
operating lease agreement for Houston Tower I gives us the option to purchase the real property at the end of the lease term in 2011 for $49.0 million. We also have the right to request an extension of the lease, or we may assist the owner in
selling the property at the end of the lease term. The proceeds from any such sale would be used to reduce our end-of-term return payment obligation (approximately $35.3 million).            During fiscal 2005, we entered into various agreements including a master operating lease agreement for the construction and lease of
an approximately 293,000 square foot office building and adjacent parking structure in Houston, Texas ( Houston Tower II ), and the lease of equipment and other tangible personal property. Houston Tower II will be constructed on property
that is adjacent to Houston Tower I. Houston Tower II is expected to be completed in early fiscal 2007 and, when finished, will be used by us in our operations. The lease agreement for Houston Tower II is expected to run through 2015 and gives us
the option to purchase the real property at any time prior to the expiration of the lease. We also have the right to assist the owner in selling the property at the end of the lease term. The net proceeds from any such sale of the property would be
used to reduce our end-of-term residual value guarantee (expected to be approximately $38.8 million). In connection with the lease of Tower II, we entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement with a U.S. bank which fixes the amount
of the Company s lease payments. At September 30, 2006 the notional amount of this hedge was $52.2 million. This instrument allows us to receive a floating rate payment tied to the 1-month LIBOR from the counterparty in exchange for a
fixed-rate payment from us. We ve determined this interest rate swap to be highly effective according to the definitions of SFAS No. 133.            We have determined that the aggregate fair value of the aforementioned financial guarantees is not significant at September 30, 2006.             11.    Common and Preferred Stock             We are authorized to issue two classes of capital stock: common stock and preferred
stock (each has a par value of $1.00 per share). The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series. The number of shares to be included in a series as well as each series  designation, relative powers, dividend and other preferences,
rights and qualifications, redemption provisions, and restrictions are to be fixed by our Board of Directors at the time each series is issued. Except as may be provided by the Board of Directors in a preferred stock designation, or otherwise
provided for by statute, the holders of our common stock have the exclusive right to vote for the election of Directors and all other matters requiring stockholder action. The holders of our common stock are entitled to dividends if and when
declared by the Board of Directors from whatever assets are legally available for that purpose.            In December 2000, the Board of Directors of the Company approved our Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated December 20, 2000 (the  Rights
Agreement ). The Rights Agreement is intended to protect the rights of our shareholders in the event of an unsolicited takeover attempt. It is not intended to prevent a takeover of the Company on terms that are favorable and fair to all
shareholders, and the Rights Agreement will not interfere with any merger approved by the Board of Directors. Pursuant to the terms of the Rights Agreement, each outstanding share of common stock has attached to it one stock purchase right (a
 Right ). Each Right entitles the common stockholder to purchase, in certain circumstances generally relating to a change in control of the Company, one one-hundredth of a share of our Series A Junior Participating Cumulative Preferred
Stock, par value  
       
   F-24   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 $1.00 per share (the  Series A Preferred Stock ) at the exercise price of $87.50 per share, subject to adjustment. Alternatively, the Right holder may
purchase our common stock having a market value equal to two times the exercise price, or may purchase shares of common stock of the acquiring corporation having a market value equal to two times the exercise price.            The Series A Preferred Stock confers to its holders, rights as to dividends, voting and
liquidation which are in preference to common stockholders. The Rights are nonvoting, are not presently exercisable and currently trade in tandem with the common shares. In accordance with the Rights Plan, we may redeem the Rights at $0.01 per
Right. The Rights will expire on December 20, 2010, unless earlier exchanged or redeemed.             12.    Other Financial Information             The following tables present the components of the items indicated as shown in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2006 and 2005 (in thousands):         

(a)  
     
  The 2005 amount has been adjusted to include the effects of stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS 123R using the modified retrospective application method of adoption.

(b)  
     
  Intangible assets consist primarily of intangible assets acquired in connection with the Babtie Group.           
   F-25   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    13.    Comprehensive Income             We have disclosed the components of comprehensive income in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income and
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity. The accumulated balances relating to each component of other comprehensive income (loss), net of any related income tax expense (benefit), for each fiscal year ended September 30
follows (in thousands):         
           Other  consists of
unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale marketable securities, and gains (losses) associated with cash flow hedges.             14.    Segment Information             As discussed above, we provide a broad range of technical, professional, and construction services. We provide our services primarily from offices located
throughout North America and Europe. We also have offices located in selected regions of Asia, Scandinavia, and Australia.            All of our operations share similar economic characteristics. For example, all of our operations are highly influenced by the general availability of qualified
engineers and other technical professional staff. They also provide similar services as well as share similar processes for delivering our services. In addition, the use of technology is highly similar and consistent throughout our organization, as
is our client base (with the exception of our operations outside the United States, which perform very little work for the U.S. federal government), and our quality assurance and safety programs. Furthermore, the types of information and internal
reports used by management to monitor performance, evaluate results of operations, allocate resources, and otherwise manage the business support a single reportable segment. Accordingly, based on these similarities, we have concluded that our
operations may be aggregated into one reportable segment for purposes of this disclosure.         
   F-26   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table presents certain financial information by geographic area for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004
(in thousands):         
          Revenues were earned from
unaffiliated clients located primarily within the various and respective geographic areas shown. Long-lived assets consist of property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization.            For each of the three fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004,
revenues earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government accounted for 16.4%, 21.2%, and 22.3%, respectively, of total revenues. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 revenues earned from Valero Energy
Corporation accounted for 10.2% of total revenues; revenues earned from this customer in prior fiscal years constituted less than 10% of total revenues.         
   F-27   

Table of Contents  

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    15.    Selected Quarterly Information Unaudited             The following table presents selected quarterly financial information for each of the
last three fiscal years. Information for fiscal 2005 and 2004 has been adjusted to include the effects of stock-based compensation accounted for in accordance with SFAS 123R, using the modified retrospective method of adoption. Amounts are
presented in thousands, except for per share amounts:         

(a)  
     
  Operating profit represents revenues, less direct costs of contracts and selling, general and administrative expenses.           
   F-28   

Table of Contents  

Report of Ernst   Young LLP        Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm             The Board of Directors and Stockholders      Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.            We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.            We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
           In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and subsidiaries at September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended September 30, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.            As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, in 2006 the Company changed its method of accounting for share-based payments and, as a result, has restated the
consolidated financial statements for the years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004.            We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated December 7, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Los Angeles, California      December 7, 2006         
   F-29   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Ernst   Young LLP        Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm             The Board of Directors and Stockholders      Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.            We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying
Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.            We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.            A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.            Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.            In our opinion, management s assessment that Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the
COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on   the COSO criteria .             We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2006 and 2005 and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, changes in
stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006 and our report dated December 7, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.           

      Los Angeles, California      December 7, 2006   
     
   F-30   

<EX-10.1>
 2
 dex101.htm
 INCENTIVE BONUS PLAN

Incentive Bonus Plan 

Exhibit 10.1         JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.          INCENTIVE BONUS PLAN          Effective 10/1/2006          FOR
OFFICERS AND KEY MANAGERS          Summary of the Program        The purpose of the Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and its subsidiaries ( Company ) Incentive Bonus Plan (the  Plan ) is to promote the success of the Company by attracting and retaining highly
qualified people who perform to the best of their abilities to achieve Company objectives and profitability. This program is designed to cover designated officers and key managers of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and its subsidiaries. Key managers
are defined as management level personnel who do not normally receive overtime compensation and who are approved for participation by the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer and the Human Resources and Compensation Committee
( Committee ) of Jacobs  Board of Directors.      Each year a bonus pool is determined by a formula approved by the Committee. From the pool up
to 80 percent is allocated to participants in the Plan, with the balance reserved for distribution to nonparticipating employees who have made an outstanding contribution during the year. The allocation of each participant s portion of the pool
may be up to 50 percent by formula with the balance allocated solely at the discretion of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer. The allocation of the nonparticipant s portion of the pool is totally at the discretion of the
Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer. All award recommendations are approved by the Committee which has sole and absolute discretion to administer the Plan.      Bonuses are paid in three annual installments. The first installment is paid approximately three months after the close of the first fiscal year to which it pertains. A participant is not vested in any future
installments. A participant must be employed by the Company at the date each future installment is paid as the bonus is not only for service done in a particular year but also for services to be rendered in the years when future installments may be
paid. The bonus award reflects recognition of performance attained and expected to be attained in the future. If an employee is a participant in the Plan for less than a full year, the measure of his or her bonus will be prorated accordingly. If a
participant s employment is severed from the Company at any time prior to the time a future installment is to be paid, such installment and any and all future installments are automatically forfeited. For the purposes of this program, a
participant will be considered employed by the Company for purposes of receiving future installments only if on the date of payment, the participant is an active full time employee with the Company.   

Incentive Bonus Plan        Effective 10/1/2006        Page 2 of 2         Bonus Pool Formula        The bonus pool is established as a percentage of pretax, pre-bonus earnings above a preset trigger point or
hurdle rate. The hurdle rate for each fiscal year will be established by the Committee. Once the trigger point is reached, the bonus pool accrues at 20 percent of pretax, pre-bonus income in excess of the trigger point. When a pretax, pre-bonus
earnings reaches two times the trigger point, the accrual increases to 25 percent of pretax, pre-bonus income in excess of two times the trigger point. The percentage rate used for calculating the trigger point is established each year based on
economic and market conditions in effect at that time. The bonus pool formula is subject to change at any time and is determined at the sole and absolute discretion of the Committee.        Allocation of Bonus Pool        The portion of the pool allocated to the Plan participants is distributed 50 percent
based on their weighted salary (using factors approved by the Committee each year) versus the total weighted salaries of all participants of the Plan and 50 percent at the discretion of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer. The
weighted salaries will be determined by multiplying the salary earned while a participant in the Plan times the weighting factors as determined by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Committee.      If a participant moves from one level to another during the year, the different weighting factors is applied to the salary earned at each level and prorated.   
    Payments        An Award shall be paid at such time or times as
determined by the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion. The Committee may reduce any award up to the date of payment. All payments are subject to federal, state, or local taxes unless deferred pursuant to the terms of a Company sponsored
plan a participant may be eligible for.        Modifications and Administration        This Plan is provided at the discretion of the Committee and the Committee reserves the right to alter or modify it in the future. The Committee is responsible for the administration of the Plan and has the exclusive
right to make any and all interpretations, rules, and regulations regarding the Plan.   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 dex102.htm
 EXECUTIVE SECURITY PROGRAM

Executive Security Program 

Exhibit 10.2        EXECUTIVE SECURITY PROGRAM        OF        JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.        TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Article No.    
     
     Contents     

Purpose   

Article I  
     
  Definitions and Constructions   

Article II  
     
  Eligibility and Participation   

Article III  
     
  Death Benefit   

Article IV  
     
  Retirement Benefit   

Article V  
     
  Beneficiary   

Article VI  
     
  Leave of Absence   

Article VII  
     
  Source of Benefits   

Article VIII  
     
  Termination of Employment   

Article IX  
     
  Termination of Participation   

Article X  
     
  Terminations, Amendment, Modification or Supplement of Plan   

Article XI  
     
  Other Benefits and Agreements   

Article XII  
     
  Restriction on Alienation of Benefits   

Article XIII  
     
  Administration of This Program   

Article XIV  
     
  Adoption of Plan by Subsidiary, Affiliated or Associated Companies   

Article XV  
     
  Miscellaneous   

Signatures   
       
   Page 1 of 13   

PURPOSE       The purpose
of the Executive Security Program of JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. and its subsidiaries is to provide specified benefits to a select group of management and highly compensated employees who contribute materially to the continued growth, development
and future business success of JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. and its subsidiaries. It is the intention of JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. that this program and the individual plans established hereunder be administered as unfunded welfare benefit
plans established and maintained for a select group of management or highly compensated employees.       ARTICLE I        DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION        1.1 Definitions.
      For purpose of this Program, the following phrases or terms shall have the indicated meanings unless otherwise clearly apparent from the context.

(a)  
   Beneficiary  shall mean the person or persons or the estate of a Participant entitled to receive any benefits under a Plan Agreement entered into in accordance with the
terms of this Program.         

(b)  
   Board of Directors  shall mean the Board of Directors of JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires.

(c)  
   Committee  shall mean the Administrative Committee appointed to manage and administer the Program and individual Plan Agreements in accordance with the provisions of
Article XIV hereof.         

(d)  
   Company  shall mean JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.         

(e)  
   Employee  shall mean any person who is in the regular fulltime employment of the company, as determined by the personnel rules and practices of the Company or the
subsidiary. The term does not include persons who are retained by the Company solely as consultants.         

(f)  
   Participant  shall mean an Employee who is selected and elects to participate in the program through the execution of a Plan agreement in accordance with the provisions
of ARTICLE II.         

(g)  
   Plan Agreement  shall mean the form of written agreement, attached hereto as Annex I, which is entered into by and between the Company and an Employee selected to become
a Participant as a condition to participation in the Program.         

(h)  
   Program  shall mean the Executive Security Program of JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. as embodied herein and as amended from time to time.         

(i)  
   Retirement  and  Retire  shall mean severance of employment with the company at or after the attainment of age fifty-five (55) with at least one year
participation.         1.2 Construction.       The
masculine gender when used herein shall be deemed to include the feminine gender, and the singular may include the plural unless the context clearly indicated to the contrary.  
       
   Page 2 of 13   

The words  hereof,   herein,   hereunder,  and other similar compounds of the word  here  shall mean and refer to the
entire Program and not to any particular provision or section. Whenever the words  Article  or  Section  are used in this Program, or a cross-reference to an  Article  or  Section  is made, the Article or
Section referred to shall be an Article or Section of this Program unless otherwise specified.       ARTICLE II        ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION        2.1 Eligibility.
      In order to be eligible for participation in the Program, an Employee must be selected by the Committee in the year preceding the year in which the
Employee is eligible to participate in each succeeding year thereafter as hereinafter provided. The Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine eligibility for participation in accordance with the purposes of the Program.
      2.2 Participation.       An Employee, having been selected
to participate in this Program by the Committee, shall, as a condition to participation, complete and return to the Committee a duly executed Plan Agreement electing to participate in the Program and agreeing to the terms and conditions thereof. The
executed Plan Agreement must be filed with the Committee at least ten (10) days prior to the first day of the year with respect to which the election to participate pertains.       2.3 Participation During a Period of Disability. In the event that a       Participant is disabled and is incapable of
executing a Plan Agreement for the forthcoming year, such Participant s Plan Agreement for the year in which the Participant became disabled shall remain in force and effect for purpose of receipt of benefits pursuant to Articles III and IV and
payments of contributions pursuant to Article VI, until such time as Participant executes a new Plan Agreement.       ARTICLE III
       DEATH BENEFIT        3.1 Amount and
Payment of Death Benefit.       In the event a Participant dies before retiring and the Program is in effect at the time, the Company will pay or cause to be
paid a Death Benefit (herein so called) to such Participant s Beneficiary in the amount or amounts set forth in his Plan Agreement and as therein specified, commencing on the first day of the month following the date of such Participant s
death, or as otherwise specified in his Plan Agreement.      Notwithstanding the immediately preceding paragraph of this Section 3.1, the Company will pay
or cause to be paid the Death Benefit specified therein only if:       

(a)  
  At the time of the Participant s death prior to retirement, such Participant was an Employee, or was on authorized leave of absence, and all salary deferrals and payments
required to be made by such Participant under 3.2 et. seq. have been made, or such salary deferrals or payments were waived pursuant to Section 3.5 because of such Participant s total disability:         

(b)  
  The Participant s Plan Agreement had been kept in force throughout the period commencing on the date of such Plan Agreement and ending on the date of his death; and
          
   Page 3 of 13   

(c)  
  The Participant s death was due to causes other than suicide within one (1) year of the date of his Plan Agreement.         3.2 Amount of Participant Salary Deferral and Payments.       Each
Participant shall defer an amount of his monthly compensation in the amounts and at such times as determined by the Committee, depending upon the amount of Death Benefit selected in a Participant s Plan Agreement (as such amount may be changed,
from time to time, by amendment of the Plan Agreement). In the event that a Participant is authorized to take a leave of absence from employment or is disabled, the Participant shall be required to make payments to the Company in accordance with
Article VI in order to maintain his Plan Agreement in force, except as provided in Section 3.5. A Participant s obligation to defer an amount of his monthly compensation in accordance with this Section 3.2 or to make the payments
required by Articles VI shall be stated in his Plan Agreement, shall commence on the date his Plan Agreement becomes effective, and shall continue thereafter during the term of his Plan Agreement or until the earlier of such Participant s
death, Retirement, or attainment of age sixty-five (65). A Participant shall have the right to increase or decrease the amount of his Death Benefit initially selected by him by amending his plan Agreement in accordance with the rules adopted by the
Committee for this purpose.       3.3 Time and Manner of Deferring Salary or Making Payments.       A Participant shall, in his Plan Agreement, authorize the Company to defer a monthly amount of such Participant s salary equal to the amount stated in
Section 3.2. A Participant who is on an authorized leave of absence or is disabled shall make the payments required in Article VI at such time and in such manner as the Company shall provide; provided, however, that the Participant shall
continue to make such payments during any period in which a portion of his salary is not being deferred or such payments have not been waived pursuant to Section 3.5.       3.4 Participant Salary Deferrals and Payments - Use and Forfeitability.       The amount of each Participant s salary
deferred pursuant to Section 3.2 and 3.3 shall be and remain solely the property of the Company and the amount collected by the Company pursuant to section 3.2 and 3.3 from each Participant who is on an authorized leave of absence or disabled
shall be and become solely the property of the Company, and a Participant shall have no right thereto, nor shall the Company be obligated to use such amounts in any specific manner.      Except as provided in Article IV, if a Participant s death occurs under circumstances other than those specified in Section 3.1, no benefit shall be payable hereunder or under his Plan Agreement to his
Beneficiary or any other person or entity on his behalf, and any payments made by such Participant under Sections 3.2 and 3.3 shall be forfeited.       3.5
Waiver of Participant Salary Deferral or Payments.       If a Participant becomes totally disabled before attaining age sixty-five, and if such total
disability continues for more than three (3) months, such Participant shall not be required to defer a portion of his salary pursuant to Sections 3.2 and 3.3 or make the payments provided for in Sections 3.2 or 3.3, beginning with the fourth
month following the date of such total disability, nor thereafter for as long as such total disability continues.      The Company will be obligated to waive
such required deferral arrangement or payments  
       
   Page 4 of 13   

only if:       

(a)  
  Such Disability is due to causes other than illegal or criminal acts of the Participant, or intentionally self-caused acts;         

(b)  
  The Participant was an Employee at the time he became totally disabled (or was then on authorized leave of absence) and made all payments required herein;     

(c)  
  The Participant s Plan Agreement has been kept in force until such time.        If, during this waiver period, a Participant attains the age of 65 and thereupon Retires, or if he shall Retire before attaining age 65, or if he shall Retire after attaining age 65, the Retirement Benefit provided in Article IV will be
paid.      The determination of what constitutes total disability and the removal thereof for purposes of this Article III, shall be made by the Committee, in
its sole and absolute discretion, and such determination shall be conclusive.      Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Section 3.5, the
Company will not be obligated to waive Participant salary deferral or payments under Sections 3.2 and 3.3 for any reason in the case of an Employee who initially becomes a Participant after attaining age fifty-five (55).       ARTICLE IV        RETIREMENT BENEFIT
       4.1 Normal Retirement.       If a Participant has
remained an Employee until age 65 and shall then Retire, and if this Participant has completed one year of participation in the Plan, and if this Program and his Plan Agreement have been kept in force, the Company will pay or cause to be paid to
such Participant, as a Retirement Benefit (herein so called), the amount per month specified in his Plan Agreement, commencing on the first day of the month following such Participant s retirement, or as otherwise specified in his Plan
Agreement.       4.2 Early Retirement.       In the event a
Participant shall retire prior to attaining age 65 but after attaining age 55, and if this Program and his Plan Agreement have been kept in force, and if the Participant has completed one year of participation in the Plan, such Participant shall be
entitled to a Retirement Benefit in an actuarially reduced amount, as determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion, commencing on the first day of the month following such Retirement, or, if so provided in such Participant s
Plan Agreement, commencing at a later date which shall not be subsequent to the first day of the calendar month after the Participant attains age 65.       4.3 Late Retirement.       In the event a Participant shall retire after attaining age 65, and if this Program and his Plan Agreement have been
kept in force, and if the Participant has completed one year of participation in the Plan, the Company will pay or cause to be paid to such Participant, as a Retirement Benefit, the amount per month specified in his Plan Agreement, commencing on the
first day of the month following such participant s retirement, or as otherwise specified in his Plan Agreement. In the event there is no Amount of Retirement After Age 65 Benefit specified in his Plan Agreement, such Participant shall be
entitled to receive an actuarially increased benefit as determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion.         
   Page 5 of 13   

4.4 Termination of Participation.       In the event a Participant ceases to participate in the Program before attaining age 65, and would otherwise be entitled to an early retirement benefit, the payment of such benefit shall not commence until the
participant shall formally retire from the Company and no death benefit shall be paid to his beneficiary under Article III.       4.5 Re-employment After
Retirement.       In the event a Participant retires from the Company and receives retirement benefit payments, such payments shall cease to be paid if the
Participant returns to active employment with the Company. The Retirement Benefit payments then remaining unpaid to such participant shall be paid upon his subsequent retirement from the Company in accordance with the payment schedule pursuant to
which payments are made under Sections 4.1,4.2, and 4.3.       4.6 Death.       If a Participant shall die after becoming entitled to a Retirement Benefit, (whether the Retirement is before, on, or after the attainment of age 65, but before the total amount payable to such Participant as a
Retirement Benefit has been paid, the Retirement Benefit payments then remaining unpaid to such Participant shall be paid to such Participant s Beneficiary, in accordance with the payment schedule pursuant to which payments are made under
Section 4.2 and 4.3.      If a Participant shall die under the circumstances specified in the preceding paragraphs of this Section 4.6, then no Death
Benefit shall be paid to his Beneficiary under Article III, but such Beneficiary shall receive his Retirement Benefit payments as set forth in the preceding paragraphs of this Section 4.6.       4.7 Accrual of Retirement Benefit.       Notwithstanding any provision
contained herein which may imply or specify to the contrary, no portion of the Participant s Retirement Benefit shall accrue to him prior to the date that he first satisfies the requirements for Retirement hereunder.       4.8 Forfeitability of Retirement Benefit.       Notwithstanding any
provision contained herein which may imply or specify to the contrary, a Participant s right to receive a Retirement Benefit under this Program and his Plan Agreement shall be forfeitable at all times prior to the date that he first satisfies
the requirements for Retirement hereunder.       ARTICLE V        BENEFICIARY       A Participant shall designate his Beneficiary to receive benefits under the Program and his Plan
Agreement by completing the appropriate space in the Plan Agreement. If more than one Beneficiary is named, the shares and/or precedence of each Beneficiary shall be indicated. As a condition co any married Participant designating a Beneficiary
other than his spouse, the Committee may require the spouse s consent. A Participant shall have the right to change the Beneficiary by submitting to the Committee a change of Beneficiary in the form attached as Annex II hereof; provided,
however, that no change of Beneficiary shall be effective until acknowledge in writing by the Committee. If the Company has any  
       
   Page 6 of 13   

doubt as to the proper Beneficiary to receive payments hereunder, the Company shall have the right to withhold such payments until the matter is finally
adjudicated. Any payment made by the Company in good faith and in accordance with the provisions of this Program and a Participant s Plan Agreement shall fully discharge the Company from all further obligations with respect to such payments.
      ARTICLE VI        LEAVE OF
ABSENCE        6.1 Required Payments.       If a Participant
is authorized by the Company for any reason, including military, medical, or other, to take a leave of absence from employment, such Participant shall be required to make monthly payments in order to maintain his Plan Agreement in force. Such
required monthly payments shall be an amount equal to the amount of the Participant s monthly compensation that is to be deferred under the  terms of his Plan Agreement. A Participant required to make payments under this Section 6.1
shall continue making such required payments until the earlier of (i) the date he returns to work following a leave of absence, (ii) the date such payments are waived pursuant to Section 3.5, or (iii) the effective date that he
enters into a new Plan Agreement. If a Participant s monthly payments are waived pursuant to Section 3.5 and subsequently the Participant returns to work, he shall be required to resume making monthly payments, in the amount specified
above, to the Company until he executes a new Plan Agreement, in order to maintain his Plan Agreement in force in accordance with Section 2.3.       6.2
Failure to Make Required Payments.       Failure to make payments required by Section 6.1 shall cause Participant s Plan Agreement to terminate
without the necessity of any notice from either party to the other. From and after such termination, neither party shall have any further obligation to the other party under this Program or such Plan Agreement.       ARTICLE VII        SOURCE OF BENEFITS
       7.1 Benefits Payable from General Assets.       Amounts
payable hereunder shall be paid exclusively from the general assets of the Company, and no person entitled to payments hereunder shall have any claim, right, security interest, or other interest in any fund, trust, account, insurance contract, or
asset of the Company which may be looked to for such payment. The Company s liability for the payment of benefits hereunder shall be evidenced only by this Program and each Plan Agreement entered into between the Company and a Participant.
      7.2 Investments to Facilitate Payment of Benefits.       Although the Company is not obligated to invest in any specific asset or fund, or purchase any insurance contract, in order to provide the means for the payment of any liabilities under this Program, the Company may elect to do so and, in
such event, no Participant shall have any interest whatever in such asset, fund, or insurance contract. In the event the Company elects to purchase insurance contracts on the life of a Participant as a means for making, offsetting, or contributing
to any payment, in full or in part, which may become due and payable by the Company under this Program or a Participant s Plan Agreement, such Participant agrees to cooperate in the securing of life insurance on his life by furnishing  
       
   Page 7 of 13   

such information as the Company and the insurance carrier may require, including the results and reports of previous Company and other insurance carrier
physical examinations, taking such additional physical examinations as may be requested, and taking any other action which may be requested by the Company and the insurance carrier to obtain such insurance coverage. If a Participant does not
cooperate in the securing of such life insurance, or if the Company for any reason is unable to obtain life insurance in the requested amount on the life of the Participant, the Company shall have no further obligation to such Participant under this
Program, and such Participant s Plan Agreement shall terminate. If the insurance carrier shall charge a rate other than standard to insure a Participant, then such Participant shall defer an additional amount of his monthly compensation or pay
the Company an additional amount, as the case may be, in an amount equal to the additional charge by reason of such rating.       7.3 Ownership of Insurance
Contracts.       The Company shall be the sole owner of any insurance contract or contracts acquired on the life of a Participant, with all incidents of
ownership therein, including, but not limited to, the right to cash and loan values, dividends, if any, death benefits, and the right of termination thereof, and a Participant shall have no interest whatsoever in such contract or contracts, if any,
and shall exercise none of the incidents of ownership thereof.       7.4 Company Obligation.       The Company shall have no obligation of any nature whatsoever to a Participant under this Program or a Participant s Plan Agreement, except as otherwise expressly
provided herein and in such Plan Agreement, if the Company purchases life insurance on a Participant s life pursuant to this Program and the circumstance of the Participant s death preclude payment of death proceeds under the insurance
contract.       ARTICLE VIII        TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT       Neither this Program nor a Participant s Plan Agreement, either singly or collectively, in any way obligate
the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company, to continue the employment of a Participant with the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company, nor does either limit the right of the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company, at any time and for any
reason to terminate the Participant s employment. Termination of a Participant s employment with the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company, for any reason, whether by action of the Company, subsidiary, or Participant, shall immediately
terminate his participation in this Program and his Plan Agreement, and all further obligation of either party thereunder, except as provided in Article 4.2. In no event shall this Program or a Plan Agreement, either singly or collectively, by their
terms or implications constitute an employment contract of any nature whatsoever between the Company, or any subsidiary, and a Participant.       ARTICLE IX        TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION       A Participant reserves the right to terminate his participation in this Program and his Plan Agreement at his election at any time by giving the Company written notice of such termination.         
   Page 8 of 13   

ARTICLE X        TERMINATIONS, AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION OR SUPPLEMENT OF PLAN        10.1 Termination.       The Company reserves the right to terminate, amend, modify or supplement this Program, wholly or partially, and from time to time, at any time. The Company likewise
reserves the right to terminate, amend, modify, or supplement any Plan Agreement, wholly or partially, from time to time. Such right to terminate, amend, modify, or supplement this Program or any Plan Agreement shall be exercised for the Company by
the Committee; provided, however, that:       

(a)  
  No action to terminate this Program or a Plan Agreement shall be taken except upon written notice to each Participant to be affected thereby, which notice shall be given not less
than 30 days prior to such action; and         

(b)  
  The Committee shall take no action to terminate this Program or a Plan Agreement with respect to a Participant or his Beneficiary after the payment of any benefit in accordance with
Article III or Article IV has commenced but has not been completed.         10.2 Rights and Obligations Upon Termination.       Upon the termination of this Program or any Plan Agreements, by either the Committee or a Participant in accordance with the provisions for such termination, neither this
Program nor the Plan Agreement shall be of any further force and effect, and no party shall have any further obligation under either this Program or any Plan Agreement so terminated.       ARTICLE XI        OTHER BENEFITS AND AGREEMENTS       The benefits provided for a Participant and his Beneficiary hereunder and under such Participant s Plan Agreement are in addition to any other benefits available to
such Participant under any other program or plan of the Company for its employees, and, except as may otherwise be expressly provided for, this Program and Plan Agreements entered into hereunder shall supplement and shall not supersede, modify, or
amend any other program or plan of the Company or a Participant. Moreover, benefits under this Program and Plan Agreements entered into hereunder shall not be considered compensation for the purpose of computing contributions or benefits under any
plan maintained by the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, which is qualified under section 401 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended.       ARTICLE XII        RESTRICTION ON ALIENATION OF BENEFITS       No right or benefit under this Program or a Plan Agreement shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any
attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge the same shall be void. No right or benefit hereunder or under any Plan Agreement shall in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts
of the person entitled to such benefit. If any Participant or Beneficiary under this Program or a Plan Agreement should become bankrupt or attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right to a benefit hereunder or
under any Plan Agreement, then such right or benefit shall, in the sole and absolute discretion of the Committee, cease; and in such event, the Committee may hold or apply the same or any part thereof for the benefit of such  
       
   Page 9 of 13   

Participant or Beneficiary, his spouse, children, or other dependents, or any of them, in such manner and in such portion as the Committee, in its sole and
absolute discretion, may deem proper.       ARTICLE XIII        ADMINISTRATION OF THIS PROGRAM        13.1 Appointment of Committee.       The general administration of this Program, and any Plan Agreements executed hereunder, as well as construction and interpretation thereof, shall be vested in the
Committee, the number and members of which shall be designated and appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the pleasure of, the Board of Directors. Any such member of the Committee may resign by notice in writing filled with the secretary
of the Committee.      Vacancies shall be filled promptly by the Board of Directors. Each person appointed a member of the Committee shall signify his
acceptance by filing a written acceptance with the secretary of the Committee.       13.2 Committee Officials.       The Board of Directors may designate one of the members of the Committee as chairman and may appoint a secretary who need not be a member of the Committee. The secretary
shall keep minutes of the Committee s proceedings and all date, records and documents relating to the Committee s administration of this Program and any Plan Agreements executed hereunder. The Committee may appoint from its number such
subcommittees with such powers as the Committee shall determine and may authorize one or more of its members or any agent to execute or deliver any instrument or make any payment on behalf of the Committee.       13.3 Committee Action.       All resolutions or other actions taken by the
Committee shall be by the vote of a majority of those members present at a meeting at which a majority of the members are present, or in writing by all the members at the time in office if they act without a meeting.       13.4 Committee Rules and Powers - General.       Subject to the provisions
of this Program, the Committee shall from time to time establish rules, forms, and procedures for the administration of this Program, including Plan Agreements.      Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, the Committee shall have the exclusive right to interpret this Program and any Plan Agreements, and to decide any and all matters arising thereunder or in connection with the administration of
this Program and any Plan Agreements, and it shall endeavor to act, whether by general rules or by particular decisions, so as not to discriminate in favor of or against any person. The Committee shall have the exclusive right to determine
(i) total disability with respect to a Participant and (ii) the degree thereof, either or both determinations to be made on the basis of such medical and/or other evidence that the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, may
require. Such decisions, actions, and records of the Committee shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company and all persons having or claiming to have any right or interest in or under this Program.         
   Page 10 of 13   

13.5 Reliance on Certificates, etc.       The members of the Committee and the officers and directors of the Company shall be entitled to rely on all certificates and reports made by any duly appointed accountants, and on all opinions given by any duly
appointed legal counsel. Such legal counsel may be counsel for the Company.       13.6 Liability of Committee.       No member of the Committee shall be liable for any act or omission of any other member of the Committee, or for any act or omission on his own part, excepting only his
own willful misconduct. The Company shall indemnify and save harmless each member of the Committee against any and all expenses and liabilities arising out of his membership on the Committee, excepting only expenses and liabilities arising out of
his own willful misconduct. Expenses against which a member of the Committee shall be indemnified hereunder shall include, without limitation, the amount of any settlement or judgment, costs, counsel fees, and related charges reasonably incurred in
connection with a claim asserted, or a proceeding bought, or settlement thereof. The foregoing right of indemnification shall be in addition to any other rights to which any such member may be entitled a a matter of law.       13.7 Determination of Benefits.       In addition to the powers
hereinabove specified, the Committee shall have the power to compute and certify, under this Program and any Plan Agreement, the amount and kind of benefits from time to time payable to Participants and their Beneficiaries, and to authorize all
disbursements for such purposes.       13.8 Information to Committee.       To enable the Committee to perform its functions, the Company shall supply full and timely information to the Committee on all matters relating to the compensation of all Participants, their retirement, death or other
cause for termination of employment, and such other pertinent facts as the Committee may require.       13.9 Manner and Time of Payment of Benefits.
      The Committee shall have the power, in its sole and absolute discretion, to change the manner and time of payment of benefits to be made to a
Participant or his Beneficiary from that set forth in the Participant s Plan Agreement if requested to do so by such Participant or Beneficiary.       ARTICLE XIV        ADOPTION OF PLAN BY SUBSIDIARY, AFFILIATED OR ASSOCIATED COMPANIES       Any corporation which is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company may, with the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, adopt this Plan and thereby come
within the definition of Company in Article I hereof.       ARTICLE XV        MISCELLANEOUS        15.1 Execution of Receipts and Releases.       Any payment to any Participant, a Participant s legal representative, or Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of this Program or any Plan Agreement executed

Page 11 of 13   

hereunder shall, to the extent thereof, be in full satisfaction of all claims hereunder against the Company. The Company may require such Participant, legal
representative, or Beneficiary, as a condition precedent to such payment, to execute a receipt and release therefor in such form as it may determine.       15.2 No Guarantee of Interest.       Neither the Committee not any of its members guarantees the payment of any amounts which may be or becomes
due to any person or entity under this Program or any Plan Agreement executed hereunder. The liability of the Company to make any payment under this Program or any Plan Agreement executed hereunder is limited to the then available assets of the
Company.       15.3 Company Records.       Records of the Company
as to a Participant s employment, termination of employment and the reason therefor, reemployment, authorized leaves of absence, and compensation shall be conclusive on all persons and entities, unless determined to be incorrect.      15.4Evidence. Evidence required by anyone under this Program and any Plan Agreement executed hereunder may be by certificate, affidavit, document, or other information
which the person or entity acting on it considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made, or presented by the proper party or parties.       15.5 Notice.
      Any notice which shall be or may be given under this Program or a Plan Agreement executed hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed by United
States mail, postage prepaid. If notice is to be given to the Company, such notice shall be addressed to the Company, at 251 S. Lake Avenue, Pasadena, CA 911 01, marked to the attention of the Secretary, Administrative Committee, Executive Security
Plan; or, if notice to a Participant, addressed to the address shown on such Participant s Plan Agreement.       15.6 Change of Address.    
  Any party may, from time to time, change the address to which notices shall be mailed by giving written notice of such new address.       15.7 Effect of Provisions.       The provisions of this Program and of any
Plan Agreement executed hereunder shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns, and upon a Participant, his Beneficiary, assigns, heirs, executors, and administrators.       15.8 Headings.       The titles and headings of Articles and Sections are
included for convenience of reference only and are not to be considered in the construction of the provisions hereof or any Plan Agreement executed hereunder.         
   Page 12 of 13   

15.9 Governing Law.       All questions arising with respect to this Program and any Plan Agreement executed hereunder shall be determined by reference to the laws of the State of California, as in effect at the time of their adoption and execution, respectively.
     Signed this 14 day of February, 1983.       

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.   

By  
     
    /s/ Dale D Myers    

Dale D. Myers   

President   

ATTEST:  
     
    /s/ Robert J Shapiro    

Robert J Shapiro   

Secretary   
       
   Page 13 of 13   

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 4
 dex103.htm
 EXECUTIVE DEFERRAL PLAN EFFECTIVE 6/1/1991

Executive Deferral Plan effective 6/1/1991 

EXHIBIT 10.3       JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.      1991 EXECUTIVE DEFERRAL PLAN      (EDP)      Effective June 1, 1991   

TABLE OF CONTENTS       
       
   -i-   

-ii-   

-iii-   

EXECUTIVE DEFERRAL PLAN      OF      JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.      Purpose      The purpose of this plan is to provide specified benefits to a select group of key employees
who contribute materially to the continued growth, development and future business success of JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. and its subsidiaries.      Article 1      Definitions      For purposes
hereof, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the context, the following phrases or terms shall have the following indicated meanings:       

1.1  
   Account Balance  shall mean the sum of (i) the Deferral Amount and (ii) interest credited in accordance with all the applicable interest crediting provisions of
this Plan, less all distributions made in accordance with the Plan.         

1.2  
   Annual Bonus  shall mean any compensation paid under the Employer s Incentive Bonus Plan.         

1.3  
   Base Annual Salary  shall mean the annual compensation that is to be paid to a Participant for each Plan Year, determined as of the first day of that year, excluding
bonuses, commissions, overtime and non-monetary awards for employment services to the Employer.         

1.4  
   Beneficiary  shall mean the person or persons, or the estate of a Participant, designated in accordance with Article 9, who is entitled to receive benefits under this
Plan upon the death of a Participant.         

1.5  
   Beneficiary Designation Form  shall mean the form established from time to time by the Board that a Participant completes, signs and returns to the Committee to designate
one or more Beneficiaries.         

1.6  
   Board  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.         

1.7  
   Change in Control  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.4.         
       
   -1-   

1.9  
   Committee  shall mean the administrative committee appointed to manage and administer the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Article 16.     

1.10  
   Company  shall mean JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.         

1.11  
   Continuing Director  shall mean a director described in Section 13.4(b).         

1.12  
   Deferral Amount  shall be the sum of all of a Participant s Base Annual Salary deferrals, Annual Bonus deferrals and, if applicable, Directors Fees deferrals.

1.13  
   Deferral Commitment Period  shall mean the period described in Section 3.4 of this Plan.         

1.14  
   Director  shall mean any member of the Board.         

1.15  
   Directors Fees  shall mean the annual fees paid by the Company, including retainer fees and meetings fees, as compensation for serving on the Board.

1.16  
   Disability  shall mean a period of disability during which a Participant qualifies for benefits under the Company s or any of its subsidiaries  long-term
disability program.         

1.17  
   Election Form  shall mean the form established from time to time by the Board that a Participant completes, signs and returns to the Committee to make an election under
the Plan.         

1.18  
   Employee  shall mean any person who is in the regular full-time employment of an Employer as determined by the personnel policies and practices of the Employer.

1.19  
   Employer  shall mean the Company and any subsidiaries of the Company that have been selected by the Board to participate in the Plan.         

1.20  
   Moody s Rate  shall mean the interest rate determined and announced by the Committee at any time before the commencement of each Plan Year. The Moody s Rate for
a Plan Year shall be the most current monthly  Seasoned Corporate Bond  rate published by Moody s Investors Service, Inc., or any successor to that service, available prior to the announcement by the Committee. For the first Plan
Year, the Moody s Rate shall be 9.43%. The Seasoned Corporate Bond rate is an economic indicator, based on an arithmetic average of the yields of representative bonds, including industrials, public utilities, Aaa, A, and Baa bonds, and is
calculated as a monthly average of the composite yield.         

1.21  
   Participant  shall mean any Employee or Director who (i) is selected to participate in the Plan, (ii) elects to participate in the Plan, (iii) signs a Plan
Agreement, an Election Form and a Beneficiary Designation Form, (iv) the signed Plan Agreement, Election Form and Beneficiary Designation Form are returned to and accepted by the Committee and (v) neither the Plan nor the Plan Agreement
has terminated.           
   -2-   

1.22  
   Participation Year  shall mean with respect to any Participant, any Plan Year in which a Participant is at any time during such year a Participant. Notwithstanding the
previous sentence,  Participation Year  shall not include any years prior to the first Plan Year in which a Participant actually has any amount deferred under this Plan.         

1.23  
   Plan  shall mean the 1991 Executive Deferral Plan of the Employer which is defined by this instrument and by each Plan Agreement.         

1.24  
   Plan Agreement  shall mean the form of written agreement which is entered into by and between the Employer and a Participant. Each Plan Agreement executed by a
Participant shall provide for the entire benefit to which such Participant is entitled to under the Plan, and the Plan Agreement bearing the latest date shall govern such entitlement.         

1.25  
  The  Plan Year  shall, for the first Plan Year, begin on June 1, 1991, and end on December 31, 1991. For each Plan Year thereafter, the Plan Year shall begin on
January 1 of each year and continue through December 31 of the same year.         

1.26  
   Pre-Retirement Distribution  shall mean the distribution provided for in Article 4.         

1.27  
   Retirement Benefit  shall mean the retirement benefit provided for in Article 5.         

1.28  
   Retirement Date  shall be the earlier of the first day of the month in which the Participant (i) attains the age of sixty-five (65), (ii) is sixty
(60) years of age or older and has completed ten (10) Years of Service, or (iii) is terminated as a result of a long-term disability under the Employer s policies and practices.         

1.29  
   Retirement Distribution Date  shall mean the last day of the month in which a Participant has both (i) reached or passed his or her Retirement Date and (ii) has
actually ceased being an Employee or Director other than by death.         

1.30  
   Survivor s Benefit  shall mean the benefit provided for in Article 6.         

1.31  
   Termination Benefit  shall mean the termination benefit provided for in Section 7.2.         

1.32  
   Termination of Employment  shall mean with respect to an Employee or Director the cessation of employment or a Director s position, as the case may be, voluntarily
or involuntarily, and, except as provided in Article 8 and Article 10, shall exclude cessation as a result of an authorized leave of absence, retirement, Disability or death. If a Participant is both an Employee and a Director, Termination of
Employment shall occur only upon the termination of last held position.         

1.33  
   Trust  shall mean the trust established pursuant to that certain Trust Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1991, between the Company and the Trustee named therein, as
amended from time to time.         

1.34  
   Unforeseeable Financial Emergency  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.8(b).           
   -3-   

1.35  
   Years of Service  shall mean the total number of years, that a Participant is an Employee or a Director, including, without limitation, periods of Disability and leaves
of absence prior to Termination of Employment, as provided under Article 8 and Article 10.        Article 2      Eligibility       

2.1  
   Eligibility and Participation . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish eligibility qualifications for participation in the Plan. Participation shall be limited
to a select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Employer.         

2.2  
   Enrollment Requirements . As a condition of participation, each Participant so selected shall complete, sign and return to the Committee a Plan Agreement, an Election Form and
a Beneficiary Designation Form, and shall comply with all further conditions that may be established by the Committee.        Article 3      Deferral Commitments       

3.1  
   Minimum Deferral . A Participant must defer during each Plan Year of the Deferral Commitment Period at least one of the following minimum amounts:         

(a)  
  In the case of an Employee, $2,000 of his or her Base Annual Salary; or         

(b)  
  In the case of a Director who is not an Employee, a percentage that is anticipated to equal $2,000 of his or her Directors Fees.        A Participant shall not be permitted to defer any portion of his or her Annual Bonus unless he or she meets one of the minimum Deferral requirements set
forth in this Section. If a Participant first becomes a Participant after the first day of a Plan Year, or in the case of the first Plan Year of the Plan itself, at the election of the Employee on the Election Form, the minimum deferral described in
(a) shall be an amount equal to $2,000, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months remaining in the Plan Year and the denominator of which is 12.       

3.2  
   Maximum Deferral . For each Plan Year of the Deferral Commitment Period, a Participant may defer up to fifty percent (50%) of his or her Base Annual Salary, fifty percent
(50%) of his or her Annual Bonus (except as noted in Section 3.5) and, if applicable, up to one hundred percent (100%) of his or her Directors Fees.         

3.3  
   Fixed Deferral Amount . Except as provided in Section 3.5, the annual deferral selected by a Participant shall be the same for each Plan Year of the Deferral Commitment
Period. A Base Annual Salary deferral shall be a fixed dollar amount, and an Annual Bonus or Directors Fees deferral shall be a fixed percentage of the applicable annual bonus or fee.           
   -4-   

In no event shall an annual deferral amount be decreased during the Deferral Commitment Period. An annual
deferral amount may only be increased (i) prior to the commencement of the Plan Year to which such annual deferral amount relates and (ii) with the approval of the Committee.       

3.4  
   Deferral Commitment Period . The  Deferral Commitment Period  for each Participant shall be a fixed period of four (4) consecutive Plan Years commencing with
the 1991 Plan Year unless otherwise designated by the Committee.         

3.5  
   Withholding of Deferral Amounts . The portion of the Base Annual Salary elected to be deferred annually shall be withheld in equal amounts over the Plan Year. The portion of
Annual Bonus and Directors Fees being deferred shall be withheld at the time the Annual Bonus or Directors Fees would otherwise be paid to the Participant. Notwithstanding the above, for such first Plan Year, Participants can elect to:

(a)  
  Defer the total Base Annual Salary deferral in that first Plan Year,         

(b)  
  Defer an amount equal to the amount in Article 3.5(a) above multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months remaining in the first Plan Year, and
the denominator of which is twelve (12).         

(c)  
  Defer from Base Annual Salary an amount equal to Article 3.5(b), above. In addition, the difference between Articles 3.5(a) and 3.5(b) would be deferred from the Annual Bonus for
the first Plan Year (in addition to any Annual Bonus election). For the first Plan Year only, the total Annual Bonus deferral could exceed fifty percent (50%) by nature of this provision.         

3.6  
   FICA Taxes . For each Plan Year of the Deferral Commitment Period, the Employer shall ratably withhold from that portion of the Participant s Base Annual Salary and/or
Annual Bonus that is not being deferred, the Participant s share of FICA taxes based on an amount equal to the Base Annual Salary and/or Annual Bonus before reduction by the amount deferred. If necessary, the Committee shall reduce the amount
deferred in order to comply with this Section 3.6.         

3.7  
   Interest Crediting Prior to Distribution .         

(a)  
  Except as provided in Section 3.7(b) and Section 3.7(c) below, interest shall be credited annually on a Participant s Account Balance at 125% of the Moody s
Rate. For purposes of this crediting, all amounts deferred during a Plan Year shall be treated as having been deferred as of the beginning of the Plan Year. Such interest crediting shall be made up to the date of the Pre-Retirement Distribution, the
Retirement Date, the date of the Participant s death or the date of Termination of Employment, depending on whether the benefit is paid under Article 4, 5, 6 or 7, respectively.           
   -5-   

(b)  
  In the event of a Termination of Employment, interest shall be credited in the manner provided in Section 3.7(a), but at the rate provided for in Section 7.2.

(c)  
  In the event of a Participant s suicide, interest shall be credited in accordance with Section 6.4.         

(a)  
  If a Participant experiences an Unforeseeable Financial Emergency as described in Section 3.8(b) below, the Participant may petition the Committee to (i) suspend any
deferrals required by the Plan Agreement and/or (ii) receive a distribution from the Plan. Any approval of such a petition shall be made at the sole discretion of the Committee. If the Committee approves a distribution, the distribution shall
be made within sixty (60) days of the date of approval. The distribution may not exceed the Participant s Account Balance as of the last day of the month prior to the date of the Committee s approval of the petition, calculated as if
such Participant were receiving a Termination Benefit as of such date.         

(b)  
  An  Unforeseeable Financial Emergency  shall mean an unexpected need for cash arising from an illness, casualty loss, sudden financial reversal, transfer of place of
employment or other such unforeseeable occurrence, all as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee.        Article 4
     Pre-Retirement Distribution       

4.1  
   Eligibility for Pre-Retirement Distribution . A Participant may elect to receive a Pre-Retirement Distribution from the Plan to be received in or after the eighth
Participation Year. This election shall be irrevocable and shall be made on the Election Form, which form is to be delivered to the Committee prior to the commencement of the Deferral Commitment Period.         

4.2  
   Amount of Distribution . The amount of the Pre-Retirement Distribution shall be any amount not to exceed the electing Participant s Account Balance at the end of the
Participation Year prior to the Participation Year selected on the Election Form for the distribution. The Pre-Retirement Distribution may not be made prior to the eighth (8th) Participation Year. At the election of the Participant (on the
Election Form), this amount shall be distributed or, in the case of installment payments, shall start distribution within ninety (90) days of the January 1st of the Participation Year selected on the Election Form in one of the following
manners:         

(a)  
  In a lump sum equal to the Total Account Balance at the end of the Participation Year prior to the Participation Year selected on the Election Form for the distribution; or
          
   -6-   

(b)  
  In a lump sum equal to a fixed dollar amount. Such fixed dollar amount shall be chosen by the Participant on the Election Form. Any remaining amounts in the Account Balance, after
completion of the Pre-Retirement Distribution, shall remain in the Plan to be paid under the other provisions of the Plan; or         

(c)  
  In four or fewer annual consecutive installments of a fixed dollar amount. Such fixed dollar amount shall be chosen by the Participant on the Election Form. Interest on the unpaid
Account Balance shall be credited at 125% of Moody s. Any remaining amounts in the Account Balance, after completion of the Pre-Retirement Distribution, shall remain in the Plan to be paid under the other provisions of the Plan; or

(d)  
  In four or fewer annual consecutive installments so that the total Account Balance is completely distributed over the elected installment period. Interest on the unpaid Account
Balance shall be credited at 125% of Moody s.        If the amount of Pre-Retirement Distribution elected by the Participant
exceeds the total Account Balance at any time during the Pre-Retirement Distribution period, only the amount remaining in the Account Balance shall be distributed to the Participant and the Employer shall have no further liability under the Plan.
     Article 5      Retirement Benefit

5.1  
   Eligibility for Retirement Benefit . If the Participant ceases to be an Employee or a Director for any reason other than death, including without limitation, retirement or a
Termination of Employment after the Retirement Date, the Employer shall pay the Retirement Benefit to the Participant (or his or her Beneficiary) as provided in Section 5.2 and Section 5.3 below.         

5.2  
   Retirement Benefit - Method of Payment . The Retirement Benefit may be paid in a lump sum, or in installments over a period of 60, 120, or 180 months at the sole discretion of
the Committee. The lump sum payment shall be made, or installment payments shall commence, within sixty (60) days of the Retirement Distribution Date and in the case of installment payments, shall continue until the Retirement Benefit is paid
in full.         

5.3  
   Retirement Benefit - Amount . If the Retirement Benefit is paid in a lump sum, it shall be the retired Participant s Account Balance determined as of the Retirement
Distribution Date. If the Retirement Benefit is paid in installments, it shall be a constant monthly payment, determined at the beginning of each Plan Year by monthly amortization of the remaining Account Balance over the remaining payment period.
Interest on the unpaid balance will be credited for the remaining periods at 125% of the Moody s Rate established for each of the subsequent Plan Years.           
   -7-   

5.4  
   Death Prior to Completion of Retirement Benefit . If the Participant dies after the Retirement Date and prior to the completion of the Retirement Benefit payments, the retired
Participant s designated Beneficiary will receive any unpaid Retirement Benefit payments due the Participant, either at the times they were to be received by the Participant, or in a lump sum, as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion. If this Section 5.4 applies, a designated Beneficiary shall not be entitled to any benefits provided for under Article 6.        Article 6      Survivor Benefit       

6.1  
   Eligibility for Survivor s Benefit . If a Participant dies before the Retirement Date and before Termination of Employment, the Employer shall pay the Survivor s
Benefit to the deceased Participant s Beneficiary, provided that all of the following conditions are met:         

(a)  
  the Participant s death was determined not to be from a bodily or mental cause or causes, the information about which was withheld, knowingly concealed, or falsely provided by
the Participant, when requested by the Employer to furnish evidence of good health; and         

(b)  
  proof of the Participant s death is furnished to the Committee in such form as determined acceptable by the Committee.         

6.2  
   Survivor s Benefit - Method of Payment . The Survivor s Benefit may be paid in a lump sum, or in installments over a period of 60, 120, or 180 months at the sole
discretion of the Committee. The lump sum payment shall be made, or installment payments shall commence within sixty (60) days of the date the Participant died and in the case of installment payments, shall continue until the Survivor s
Benefit is paid in full.         

6.3  
   Survivor s Benefit - Amount . If the Survivor s Benefit is paid in a lump sum, it shall be the retired Participant s Account Balance determined as of the date
the Participant died. If the Survivor s Benefit is paid in installments, it shall be a constant monthly payment, determined at the beginning of each Plan Year by monthly amortization of the remaining Account Balance over the remaining payment
period. Interest on the unpaid balance will be credited for the remaining periods at 125% of the Moody s Rate established for each of the subsequent Plan Years.         

6.4  
   Suicide . In the event of a Participant s suicide within twenty-four months of the first deferral of any Deferral Commitment Period, the Employer shall be obligated to
pay to the Participant s designated Beneficiary the Participant s portion of the Deferral Amount, without interest, and no other Survivor s Benefit shall be payable.           
   -8-   

Article 7      Termination Benefit       

7.1  
   Eligibility for Termination Benefit . If a Participant experiences a Termination of Employment prior to the Retirement Date, the Employer shall pay to the Participant the
Termination Benefit.         

7.2  
   Termination Benefit . The Termination Benefit is a sum equal to the Participant s Account Balance determined as provided in this Section 7.2, as of the date of
Termination of Employment, and shall be paid in a lump sum within ninety (90) days following the Termination of Employment. In determining the Account Balance for purposes of this Article 7 only, interest shall be calculated in the manner
provided in Section 3.7(a) above, but using the applicable interest rate set forth in the following schedules:         

Number of       Participation Years    
      
     Interest Crediting Rate     

For Employees:    

Less than 2 years   
      
  0   
 
    More than 2 but less than 7   
      
  Moody s Rate   
 
    7 or more   
      
  125% of Moody s Rate   

For Directors:    

All years   
      
  125% of Moody s Rate   
    In the event a Participant is both an Employee and Director, interest shall be credited under the
Employee schedule.      Article 8      Disability       

8.1  
   Eligibility for Disability Waiver . If a Participant suffers a Disability during any Plan Year during the Deferral Commitment Period, the Participant s annual deferral
amount for that Plan Year or any subsequent Plan Year shall, except as provided in this Section 8.1, be as set forth in his or her Election Form for the first six (6) months that a Participant suffers from a Disability, and the withholding
of the Participant s monthly deferral amounts, calculated in accordance with Section 3.5, shall be met from the Participant s taxable portion of the disability benefit under the Employer s long-term disability program. Should the
monthly deferral amount exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the taxable disability benefit, the Participant s deferral obligation shall be excused to the extent of that excess. If a Participant s Disability exceeds six
(6) consecutive months, the Participant shall be excused from making any additional deferrals while he or she is suffering from a Disability.           

   -9-   

8.2  
   Benefits . A Participant suffering a Disability, but not terminated as a result of long-term disability under the Employer s policies and practices, shall continue to be
considered a Participant and shall be eligible for the benefits provided for in Articles 4, 5, 6 or 7 in accordance with the provisions of those Articles.         

8.3  
   Long-Term Disability - Termination . For a Participant who is terminated as a result of disability under the Employer s policies and practices, the provisions of Article
5 shall apply for purposes of Account Balance distribution and interest crediting.        Article 9      Beneficiary       

9.1  
   Beneficiary . Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person or persons as his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (both primary as well as
contingent) to receive any benefits payable under the Plan to a Beneficiary upon the death of a Participant.         

9.2  
   Beneficiary Designation; Change . A Participant shall designate his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries by completing and signing the Beneficiary Designation Form, and
returning it to the Committee. A Participant shall have the right to change a Beneficiary by completing, signing and otherwise complying with the terms of the Beneficiary Designation Form.         

9.3  
   Acknowledgment . No designation or change in designation of a Beneficiary shall be effective until received, accepted and acknowledged in writing by the Committee.

9.4  
   No Beneficiary Designation . If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or die prior to
complete distribution of the Participant s benefits, then the Participant s designated Beneficiary shall be deemed to be his or her surviving spouse. If the Participant has no surviving spouse, the benefits remaining under the Plan to be
paid to a Beneficiary shall be payable to the executor or personal representative of the Participant s estate.         

9.5  
   Doubt as to Beneficiary . If the Committee has any doubt as to the proper Beneficiary to receive payments pursuant to this Plan, they shall have the right to withhold such
payments until this matter is resolved to their satisfaction.         

9.6  
   Discharge of Obligations . The payment of benefits under the Plan to a Beneficiary shall fully and completely discharge the Employer from all further obligations under this
Plan with respect to the deceased Participant and all of his or her Beneficiaries.           
   -10-   

Article 10      Leave of Absence       

10.1  
   Authorized Leave of Absence . If a Participant is authorized by the Employer for any reason to take a paid leave of absence from employment, such Participant shall continue to
be considered employed as an Employee or Director and shall be required to maintain the level of deferrals set forth in his or her Plan Agreement in order to keep the Plan Agreement in full force and effect. If such leave of absence is unpaid, the
Participant shall continue to be considered employed as an Employee or Director and will be excused from making deferrals until the unpaid leave of absence ends; provided, however, that if the unpaid leave of absence continues beyond three
consecutive months, the Participant shall be treated as having incurred a Termination of Employment as of the end of such three month period and the Participant shall receive the Termination Benefit in accordance with Article 7. In the case of a
conflict between this Article 10 and Article 8, Article 8 shall prevail.        Article 11      Employer/Participant Liability       

11.1  
   General Assets . Amounts payable to a Participant shall be paid from the general assets of the Employer exclusively.         

11.2  
   Employer s Liability . The Employer s liability for the payment of benefits shall be defined only by this Plan, as entered into between the Employer and a
Participant.         

11.3  
   Limitation of Obligation . The Employer shall have no obligation to a Participant under the Plan, except as expressly provided for in the Plan.         

11.4  
   Participant Cooperation . The Participant must cooperate with the Employer and the Committee in furnishing all information requested by the Employer and/or Committee in order
to facilitate the payment of benefits, and the administration and operations of this Plan. Such information may include taking a physical examination, or other actions, and such cooperation shall extend beyond the termination of the Plan Agreement
and the Employee s Participation in the Plan.         

11.5  
   Unsecured General Creditor . Participants, their Beneficiaries and their permitted heirs, successors and assigns shall have no legal or equitable rights, interest or claims in
any property or assets of the Employer. Any and all of the Employer s assets shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged unrestricted assets of the Employer. The Employer s obligations under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded
and unsecured promise of the Employer to pay money in the future.           
   -11-   

Article 12      No Guarantee of Employment       

12.1  
   No Guarantee of Employment . Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as altering in any manner the employment relationship with an Employee or Director, which is hereby
acknowledged to be an  at will  employment relationship that can be terminated at any time for any reason, with or without cause, unless otherwise expressly provided in a written employment agreement. All terms and conditions of an
Employee s or Director s current employment shall remain the same. Nothing in this Plan creates, or is meant to create, any obligation on the part of the Employer to keep an Employee or Director employed by the Employer or not to terminate
an Employee or Director at any time and for any reason.        Article 13      Termination, Amendment or Modification of the Plan       

13.1  
   Termination . The Company reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time. Upon termination of the Plan, the Participant s Account Balance shall be paid out in
accordance with the benefits that the Participant would receive if there had occurred a Termination of Employment with respect to the Participant on the date of Plan termination or, if such termination occurs after the Retirement Date, the
Participant had retired on the date of Plan termination. Notwithstanding the above, the termination of the Plan shall not affect any Participant or Beneficiary who has become entitled to the payment of benefits under the Plan as of the date of
termination.         

13.2  
   Amendment . The Company may, at any time, amend or modify the Plan in whole or in part, provided, however, that no amendment or modification shall be effective to decrease or
restrict a Participant s Account Balance in existence at the time the amendment or modification is made, calculated as if there had occurred a Termination of Employment with respect to such Participant as of the effective date of the amendment
or, if such amendment occurs after the Retirement Date, the Participant had retired as of the effective date of the amendment. The amendment or modification of the Plan shall not affect any Participant or Beneficiary who has become entitled to the
payment of benefits under the Plan as of the date of the amendment or modification.         

13.3  
   Termination of Plan Agreement . Absent the earlier termination, modification or amendment of the Plan, the Plan Agreement of any Participant shall terminate upon the full
payment of the applicable benefit provided under Articles 4, 5, 6, or 7, as the case may be.         

(a)  
  All benefits accrued under the Plan as of the date of a Change of Control shall thereafter be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Plan. However, if at any time
during a period of three years following a Change of Control           
   -12-   

of the Company, the employment of a participant by the Employer is terminated (i) by the Employer for any reason other than for Cause, or (ii) by the Participant for just
reason, then all benefits, including all interest at the full 125% of Moody s rate shall apply and not at the rates applicable in Section 7.2. Such amounts will thereupon be immediately due and payable in full, less any withholdings
required by law, to such Participant, and within ten business days thereafter the Employer, or any successor corporation of the Employer shall deliver payment of such Account Balance to such Participant.         

A Participant shall be deemed to have terminated his or her employment for just reason if he or she resigns voluntarily after a demotion, a material reduction in his or her
authority or responsibility or any reduction in his or her compensation or after being notified of a relocation of his or her work place that would materially increase the commuting distance from his or her then current principal residence.

A Participant shall be deemed to have been terminated by the Employer for cause only if such participant has been terminated by reason of (i) a willful failure by such
Participant to substantially perform his or her duties other than a failure resulting from the Participant s incapacity due to physical or mental illness, or (ii) a willful act by the Participant that constitutes gross misconduct and is
materially injurious to the Employer. No act or failure to act by a Participant shall be considered  willful  unless committed without good faith and without a reasonable belief that the act of omission was in the best interests of the
Employer.         

(b)  
  As used in this Plan,  Change of Control  means the occurrence of any of the following events:         

(i)  
  Any  person  (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, hereinafter  Person ) becomes the beneficial owner,
directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities ordinarily (and apart from rights accruing under special
circumstances) having the right to vote at elections of directors;         

(ii)  
  A change in the composition of the Board as a result of which fewer than two-thirds (2/3rds) of the incumbent directors are Continuing Directors; or     

(iii)  
  A change of control that would be required to be reported in a proxy statement pursuant to Item 5(f) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.         

An individual shall be considered a  Continuing Director  on a particular date if he or she either (i) had been a member of the Board twenty-four (24) months
prior to such date or (ii) was elected, or nominated for election, to the Board with the affirmative votes of at least a majority of the members of the Board twenty-four (24) months prior to such date and who were still in office at the time of
the election or nomination.           
   -13-   

13.5  
   Termination, Modification or Amendment Following Change in Control . Following a Change in Control, neither the Company, any subsidiary of the Company nor any corporation,
trust or other Person that succeeds to all or any substantial portion of the assets of the Company shall have the right to terminate, modify, or amend a Plan Agreement in effect prior to such Change in Control, and all benefits under such Plan
Agreement shall thereafter be paid in accordance with the terms of such Plan Agreement as in effect immediately prior to such Change in Control. Any provision of this Plan to the contrary shall be construed in accordance with this Section 13.5.

13.6  
   Legal Fees To Enforce Rights After Change in Control . The Company is aware that upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Board (which might then be composed of new
members) or a shareholder of the Company or of any successor corporation might then cause or attempt to cause the Company or such successor to refuse to comply with its obligations under the Plan and might cause or attempt to cause the Company to
institute, or may institute, litigation seeking to deny Participants the benefits intended under the Plan. In these circumstances, the purpose of the Plan could be frustrated. It is the intent of the Company that Participants not be required to
incur the expenses associated with the enforcement of their rights under the Plan by litigation or other legal action, because the cost and expense thereof would substantially detract from the benefits intended to be extended to Participants
hereunder, and that Participants not be bound to negotiate any settlement of their rights under the Plan under threat of incurring such expenses. Accordingly, if, following a Change in Control, it should appear to any Participant that the Company
has failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Plan or any agreement thereunder or, if the Company or any other Person takes any action to declare the Plan or any agreement hereunder void or unenforceable or institutes any litigation or
other legal action designed to deny, diminish or to recover from any Participant the benefits intended to be provided to each Participant under the Plan, and such Participant has substantially complied with all of his or her obligations under the
Plan and any such agreement, then the Company irrevocably authorizes such Participant from time to time to retain counsel of his or her choice at the expense of the Company to represent such Participant in connection with the initiation or defense
of any litigation or other legal action, whether by or against the Company or any director, officer, shareholder or other person affiliated with the Company or any successor thereto in any jurisdiction. Notwithstanding any existing or prior
attorney-client relationship between the Company and such counsel, the Company irrevocably consents to each Participant s entering into an attorney-client relationship with such counsel, and in that connection the Company and each Participant
agree that a confidential relationship shall exist between each such Participant and his counsel. The Company shall pay or reimburse each Participant for all reasonable fees and expenses of counsel selected by such Participant from time to time on a
regular, periodic basis from presentation of a statement or statements prepared by such counsel in accordance with its customary practices up to a maximum aggregate amount of $500,000.           
   -14-   

13.7  
   Vesting . Notwithstanding anything that may be construed to the contrary in this Plan, a Participant shall at all times be 100% vested in his or her Deferral Amount.
       Article 14      Other
Benefits and Agreements       

14.1  
   Coordination with Other Benefits . The benefits provided for a Participant and Participant s Beneficiary under the Plan are in addition to any other benefits available to
such Participant under any other plan or program for employees of the Employer. The Plan shall supplement and shall not supersede, modify or amend any other such plan or program except as may otherwise be expressly provided.
       Article 15      Restrictions on Alienation of Benefits       

15.1  
   Nonassignability . Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber,
transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt, the amounts if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof. No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to any claims of creditors and, in particular, they
shall not be subject to attachment, garnishment, seizure or sequestration by any creditor for the payment of any debts, judgments, obligations, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant.        Article 16      Administration of the Plan

16.1  
   Committee Administration . The general administration of this Plan, as well as construction and interpretation thereof, shall be the responsibility of the Committee, the
number of members of which shall be designated and appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.         

16.2  
   Committee Authority . Subject to the Plan, the Committee shall from time to time establish rules, forms and procedures for the administration of the Plan. Except as otherwise
expressly provided, the Committee shall have the exclusive right to interpret the Plan and to decide any and all matters arising thereunder. The Committee s decisions shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons having or claiming to have
any right or interest under the Plan.         

16.3  
   Committee Indemnity . No member of the Committee shall be liable for any act or omission of any other member of the Committee, nor for any act or omission on his own part,
excepting his or her own willful misconduct. The Employer shall indemnify and save harmless each member of the Committee against any and all expenses and liabilities           
   -15-   

arising out of his or her membership on the Committee, with the exception of expenses and liabilities arising out of his or her own willful misconduct.         

16.4  
   Employer s Obligations to the Committee . To enable the Committee to perform its functions, each Employer shall supply full and timely information to the Committee on all
matters relating to the compensation of all Participants, their retirement, death, Disability or Termination of Employment, and such other pertinent facts as the Committee may require.         

16.5  
   Committee Discretion in Payment Schedule . The Committee shall also have the power, at its sole discretion, to change the manner and timing of payments to be made to a
Participant or Participant s Beneficiary from that set forth in the Participant s Plan Agreement, if requested to do so by such Participant or Beneficiary.        Article 17      Claims Procedures       

17.1  
   Presentation of Claim . Any Participant or Beneficiary of a deceased Participant (such Participant or Beneficiary being referred to below as a  Claimant ) may
deliver to the Committee a written claim for a determination with respect to the amounts (i) credited to (or deducted from) such Claimant s Participant s Account Balance, or (ii) distributable to such Claimant from the Plan. If
such a claim relates to the contents of a notice received by the Claimant, the claim must be made within 60 days after such notice was received by the Claimant. The claim must state with particularity the determination desired by the Claimant.

17.2  
   Notification of Decision . The Committee shall consider a Claimant s claim within a reasonable time, and shall notify the Claimant in writing:     

(a)  
  that the Claimant s requested determination has been made, and that the claim has been allowed in full; or         

(b)  
  that the Committee has reached a conclusion contrary, in whole or in part, to the Claimant s requested determination, and such notice must set forth in a manner calculated to
be understood by the Claimant:         

(i)  
  the specific reason(s) for the denial of the claim, or any part of it;         

(ii)  
  specific reference(s) to pertinent provisions of the Plan upon which such denial was based;         

(iii)  
  a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect the claim, and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; and
          
   -16-   

(iv)  
  an explanation of the claim review procedure set forth in Section 17.3.         

17.3  
   Review of a Denied Claim . Within sixty (60) days after receiving a notice from the Committee that a claim has been denied, in whole or in part, a Claimant (or the
Claimant s duly authorized representative) may file with the Committee a written request for a review of the denial of the claim. Thereafter, but not later than thirty (30) days after the review procedure began, the Claimant (or the
Claimant s duly authorized representative):         

(a)  
  may review pertinent documents;         

(b)  
  may submit written comments or other documents; and/or         

(c)  
  may request a hearing, which the Committee, in its sole discretion, may grant.         

17.4  
   Decision on Review . The Committee shall render its decision on review promptly, and not later than sixty (60) days after the filing of a written request for review of
the denial, unless a hearing is held or other special circumstances require additional time, in which case the Committee s decision must be rendered within 120 days after such date. Such decision must be written in a manner calculated to be
understood by the Claimant, and it must contain:         

(a)  
  specific reasons for the decision;         

(b)  
  specific reference(s) to the pertinent Plan provisions upon which the decision was based; and         

(c)  
  such other matters as the Committee deems relevant.        Article 18      Trust       

18.1  
   Establishment of the Trust . The Company shall establish the Trust. The Employer shall at least annually transfer over to the Trust such assets as the Committee determines, in
its sole discretion, are necessary to provide for the Employer s future liabilities created with respect to the Deferral Amounts and interest credits for that year.         

18.2  
   Interrelationship of the Plan and the Trust . The provisions of the Plan and the Plan Agreement shall govern the rights of a Participant to receive distributions pursuant to
the Plan. The provisions of the Trust shall govern the rights of the Employer, Participant and the creditors of the Employer to the assets transferred to the Trust. The Employer shall at all times remain liable to carry out its obligations under the
Plan. The Employer s obligations under the Plan may be satisfied with Trust assets distributed pursuant to the terms of the Trust.           
   -17-   

Article 19      Miscellaneous       

19.1  
   Notice . Any notice given under the Plan shall be in writing and shall be mailed to:        JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.      Employee Benefits      251 South Lake Avenue      Pasadena, California
91101       

19.2  
   Successors . The Plan shall be binding upon the Employer and its respective successors or assigns, and upon a Participant, the Participant s Beneficiaries and the
Participant s permitted assigns, heirs, executors and administrators.         

19.3  
   Spouse s Interest . The interest in the benefits hereunder of a spouse of a Participant who has predeceased the Participant shall automatically pass to the Participant
and shall not be transferable by such spouse in any manner including but not limited to such spouse s will, nor shall such interest pass under the laws of intestate succession.         

19.4  
   Governing Law . The Plan and Plan Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of California, as in effect at the time of their adoptions and
executions, respectively.         

19.5  
   Pronouns . Masculine pronouns wherever used shall include feminine pronouns and the singular shall include the plural.         

19.6  
   Headings . The headings of the articles, sections and paragraphs of this Plan are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of
its provisions.         

19.7  
   Validity . In the event any provision of this Plan shall be illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity of that provision shall not affect the remaining
parts hereof, but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted herein.        IN WITNESS WHEREOF JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. has signed this Plan document this 31st day of May, 1991.        

Company    
 
  JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.   

By:  
     
    /s/ John W. Prosser Jr.    
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Vice President Finance and Administration   

(Officer of the Company)   

-18-   

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.4>
 5
 dex104.htm
 EXECUTIVE DEFERRAL PLAN EFFECTIVE 12/1/1993

Executive Deferral Plan effective 12/1/1993 

EXHIBIT 10.4       JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.      1993 EXECUTIVE DEFERRAL PLAN      (EDP)      Effective December 1, 1993

TABLE OF CONTENTS       
       
   i   

ii   

iii   

1993 EXECUTIVE DEFERRAL PLAN      OF      JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.      Purpose      The purpose of this plan is to provide specified benefits to a select group of key employees
who contribute materially to the continued growth, development and future business success of JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. and its subsidiaries.      Article 1      Definitions      For purposes
hereof, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the context, the following phrases or terms shall have the following indicated meanings:       

1.1  
   Account Balance  shall mean the sum of (i) the Deferral Amount and (ii) interest credited in accordance with all the applicable interest crediting provisions of
this Plan, less all distributions made in accordance with the Plan.         

1.2  
   Annual Bonus  shall mean any compensation paid under the Employer s Incentive Bonus Plan.         

1.3  
   Base Annual Salary  shall mean the annual compensation that is to be paid to a Participant for each Plan Year, determined as of the first day of that year, excluding
bonuses, commissions, overtime and non-monetary awards for employment services to the Employer.         

1.4  
   Beneficiary  shall mean the person or persons, or the estate of a Participant, designated in accordance with Article 9, who is entitled to receive benefits under this
Plan upon the death of a Participant.         

1.5  
   Beneficiary Designation Form  shall mean the form established from time to time by the Board that a Participant completes, signs and returns to the Committee to designate
one or more Beneficiaries.         

1.6  
   Board  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.         

1.7  
   Change in Control  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.4.         
       
   1   

1.9  
   Committee  shall mean the administrative committee appointed to manage and administer the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Article 16.     

1.10  
   Company  shall mean JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.         

1.11  
   Continuing Director  shall mean a director described in Section 13.4(b).         

1.12  
   Deferral Amount  shall be the sum of all of a Participant s Base Annual Salary deferrals, Annual Bonus deferrals and, if applicable, Directors Fees deferrals.

1.13  
   Deferral Commitment Period  shall mean the period described in Section 3.4 of this Plan.         

1.14  
   Director  shall mean any member of the Board.         

1.15  
   Directors Fees  shall mean the annual fees paid by the Company, including retainer fees and meetings fees, as compensation for serving on the Board.

1.16  
   Disability  shall mean a period of disability during which a Participant qualifies for benefits under the Company s or any of its subsidiaries  long-term
disability program.         

1.17  
   Election Form  shall mean the form established from time to time by the Board that a Participant completes, signs and returns to the Committee to make an election under
the Plan.         

1.18  
   Employee  shall mean any person who is in the regular full-time employment of an Employer as determined by the personnel policies and practices of the Employer.

1.19  
   Employer  shall mean the Company and any subsidiaries of the Company that have been selected by the Board to participate in the Plan.         

1.20  
   Moody s Rate  shall mean the interest rate determined and announced by the Committee at any time before the commencement of each Plan Year. The Moody s Rate for
a Plan Year shall be the most current monthly  Seasoned Corporate Bond  rate published by Moody s Investors Service, Inc., or any successor to that service, available prior to the announcement by the Committee. For the first Plan
Year, the Moody s Rate shall be 6.98%. The Seasoned Corporate Bond rate is an economic indicator, based on an arithmetic average of the yields of representative bonds, including industrials, public utilities, Aaa, A, and Baa bonds, and is
calculated as a monthly average of the composite yield.         

1.21  
   Participant  shall mean any Employee or Director who (i) is selected to participate in the Plan, (ii) elects to participate in the Plan, (iii) signs a Plan
Agreement, an Election Form and a Beneficiary Designation Form, (iv) the signed Plan Agreement, Election Form and Beneficiary Designation Form are returned to and accepted by the Committee and (v) neither the Plan nor the Plan Agreement
has terminated.           
   2   

1.22  
   Participation Year  shall mean with respect to any Participant, any Plan Year in which a Participant is at any time during such year a Participant. Notwithstanding the
previous sentence,  Participation Year  shall not include any years prior to the first Plan Year in which a Participant actually has any amount deferred under this Plan.         

1.23  
   Plan  shall mean the 1993 Executive Deferral Plan of the Employer which is defined by this instrument and by each Plan Agreement.         

1.24  
   Plan Agreement  shall mean the form of written agreement which is entered into by and between the Employer and a Participant. Each Plan Agreement executed by a
Participant shall provide for the entire benefit to which such Participant is entitled to under the Plan, and the Plan Agreement bearing the latest date shall govern such entitlement.         

1.26  
   Pre-Retirement Distribution  shall mean the distribution provided for in Article 4.         

1.28  
   Retirement Benefit  shall mean the retirement benefit provided for in Article 5.         

1.29  
   Retirement Date  shall be the earlier of the first day of the month in which the Participant (i) attains the age of sixty-five (65), (ii) is sixty
(60) years of age or older and has completed ten (10) Years of Service, or (iii) is terminated as a result of a long-term disability under the Employer s policies and practices.         

1.30  
   Retirement Distribution Date  shall mean the last day of the month in which a Participant has both (i) reached or passed his or her Retirement Date and (ii) has
actually ceased being an Employee or Director other than by death.         

1.31  
   Survivor s Benefit  shall mean the benefit provided for in Article 6.         

1.32  
   Termination Benefit  shall mean the termination benefit provided for in Section 7.2.         

1.33  
   Termination of Employment  shall mean with respect to an Employee or Director the cessation of employment or a Director s position, as the case may be, voluntarily
or involuntarily, and, except as provided in Article 8 and Article 10, shall exclude cessation as a result of an authorized leave of absence, retirement, Disability or death. If a Participant is both an Employee and a Director, Termination of
Employment shall occur only upon the termination of last held position.           
   3   

1.34  
   Trust  shall mean the trust established pursuant to that certain Trust Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1991, between the Company and the Trustee named therein, as
amended from time to time.         

1.35  
   Unforeseeable Financial Emergency  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.8(b).         

1.36  
   Years of Service  shall mean the total number of years, that a Participant is an Employee or a Director, including, without limitation, periods of Disability and leaves
of absence prior to Termination of Employment, as provided under Article 8 and Article 10.        Article 2      Eligibility       

2.1  
   Eligibility and Participation . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish eligibility qualifications for participation in the Plan. Participation shall be limited
to a select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Employer.         

2.2  
   Enrollment Requirements . As a condition of participation, each Participant so selected shall complete, sign and return to the Committee a Plan Agreement, an Election Form and
a Beneficiary Designation Form, and shall comply with all further conditions that may be established by the Committee.        Article 3      Deferral Commitments       

3.1  
   Minimum Deferral . A Participant must defer during each Plan Year of the Deferral Commitment Period at least one of the following minimum amounts:         

(a)  
  In the case of an Employee, $2,000 of his or her Base Annual Salary; or         

(b)  
  In the case of a Director who is not an Employee, a percentage that is anticipated to equal $2,000 of his or her Directors Fees.        A Participant shall not be permitted to defer any portion of his or her Annual Bonus unless he or she meets one of the minimum Deferral requirements set
forth in this Section. If a Participant first becomes a Participant after the first day of a Plan Year, or in the case of the first Plan Year of the Plan itself, at the election of the Employee on the Election Form, the minimum deferral described in
(a) shall be an amount equal to $2,000, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months remaining in the Plan Year and the denominator of which is 12.         
   4   

3.2  
   Maximum Deferral . For each Plan Year of the Deferral Commitment Period, subject to the provisions of Section 3.6, a Participant may defer:         
    If the Participant is a Participant in the Prior EDP, the sum of his or her deferrals under the
Prior EDP and under this Plan may not exceed the above maximums.       

3.3  
   Fixed Deferral Amount . Except as provided in Section 3.6, the annual deferral selected by a Participant shall be the same for each Plan Year of the Deferral Commitment
Period. A Base Annual Salary deferral shall be a fixed dollar amount, and an Annual Bonus or Directors Fees deferral shall be a fixed percentage of the applicable annual bonus or fee. In no event shall an annual deferral amount be decreased during
the Deferral Commitment Period. An annual deferral amount may only be increased (i) prior to the commencement of the Plan Year to which such annual deferral amount relates and (ii) with the approval of the Committee.

3.4  
   Deferral Commitment Period . The  Deferral Commitment Period  for each Participant shall be a fixed period of four (4) consecutive Plan Years commencing with
the 1994 Plan Year unless otherwise designated by the Committee.         

3.5  
   Withholding of Deferral Amounts . The portion of the Base Annual Salary elected to be deferred annually shall be withheld in equal amounts over the Plan Year. The portion of
Annual Bonus and Directors Fees being deferred shall be withheld at the time the Annual Bonus or Directors Fees would otherwise be paid to the Participant.         

3.6  
   FICA Taxes . For each Plan Year of the Deferral Commitment Period, the Employer shall ratably withhold from that portion of the Participant s Base Annual Salary and/or
Annual Bonus that is not being deferred, the Participant s share of FICA taxes based on an amount equal to the Base Annual Salary and/or Annual Bonus before reduction by the amount deferred. If necessary, the Committee shall reduce the amount
deferred in order to comply with this Section 3.6.         

3.7  
   Interest Crediting Prior to Distribution .         

(a)  
  Except as provided in Section 3.7(b) and Section 3.7(c) below, interest shall be credited annually on a Participant s Account Balance at 125% of the Moody s
Rate. For purposes of this crediting, all amounts deferred during a Plan Year shall be treated as having been deferred as of the beginning of the Plan Year, except for the 1994 Plan Year which shall be treated as though all amounts were deferred as
of January 1, 1994. Such interest crediting shall be made up to the date of the           
   5   

Pre-Retirement Distribution, the Retirement Date, the date of the Participant s death or the date of
Termination of Employment, depending on whether the benefit is paid under Article 4, 5, 6 or 7, respectively.       

(b)  
  In the event of a Termination of Employment, interest shall be credited in the manner provided in Section 3.7(a), but at the rate provided for in Section 7.2.

(c)  
  In the event of a Participant s suicide within twenty-four months of the first deferral of any Deferral Commitment period, interest shall be credited in accordance with Section
6.4. After the first twenty-four months, interest will be credited in accordance with Sections 3.7(a) and 3.7(b) above.         

(a)  
  If a Participant experiences an Unforeseeable Financial Emergency as described in Section 3.8(b) below, the Participant may petition the Committee to (i) suspend any
deferrals required by the Plan Agreement and/or (ii) receive a distribution from the Plan. Any approval of such a petition shall be made at the sole discretion of the Committee. If the Committee approves a distribution, the distribution shall
be made within sixty (60) days of the date of approval. The distribution may not exceed the Participant s Account Balance as of the last day of the month prior to the date of the Committee s approval of the petition, calculated as if
such Participant were receiving a Termination Benefit as of such date.         

(b)  
  An  Unforeseeable Financial Emergency  shall mean an unexpected need for cash arising from an illness, casualty loss, sudden financial reversal, transfer of place of
employment or other such unforeseeable occurrence, all as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee.        Article 4
     Pre-Retirement Distribution       

4.1  
   Eligibility for Pre-Retirement Distribution . A Participant may elect to receive a Pre-Retirement Distribution from the Plan to be received in or after the eighth
Participation Year. This election shall be irrevocable and shall be made on the Election Form, which form is to be delivered to the Committee prior to the commencement of the Deferral Commitment Period.         

4.2  
   Amount of Distribution . The amount of the Pre-Retirement Distribution shall be any amount not to exceed the electing Participant s Account Balance at the end of the
Participation Year prior to the Participation Year selected on the Election Form for the distribution. The Pre-Retirement Distribution may not be made prior to the eighth (8th) Participation Year. At the election of the Participant (on the
Election Form), this amount shall be distributed or, in the case of installment payments, shall start distribution within ninety (90) days of the January 1st of the Participation Year selected on the Election Form in one of the following
manners:         

(a)  
  In a lump sum equal to the Total Account Balance at the end of the Participation Year prior to the Participation Year selected on the Election Form for the distribution; or
          
   6   

(b)  
  In a lump sum equal to a fixed dollar amount. Such fixed dollar amount shall be chosen by the Participant on the Election Form. Any remaining amounts in the Account Balance, after
completion of the Pre-Retirement Distribution, shall remain in the Plan to be paid under the other provisions of the Plan; or         

(c)  
  In four or fewer annual consecutive installments of a fixed dollar amount. Such fixed dollar amount shall be chosen by the Participant on the Election Form. Interest on the unpaid
Account Balance shall be credited at 125% of Moody s. Any remaining amounts in the Account Balance, after completion of the Pre-Retirement Distribution, shall remain in the Plan to be paid under the other provisions of the Plan; or

(d)  
  In four or fewer annual consecutive installments so that the total Account Balance is completely distributed over the elected installment period. Interest on the unpaid Account
Balance shall be credited at 125% of Moody s.        If the amount of Pre-Retirement Distribution elected by the Participant
exceeds the total Account Balance at any time during the Pre-Retirement Distribution period, only the amount remaining in the Account Balance shall be distributed to the Participant and the Employer shall have no further liability under the Plan.
     Article 5      Retirement Benefit

5.1  
   Eligibility for Retirement Benefit . If the Participant ceases to be an Employee or a Director for any reason other than death, including without limitation, retirement or a
Termination of Employment after the Retirement Date, the Employer shall pay the Retirement Benefit to the Participant (or his or her Beneficiary) as provided in Section 5.2 and Section 5.3 below.         

5.2  
   Retirement Benefit-Method of Payment . The Retirement Benefit may be paid in a lump sum, or in installments over a period of 60, 120, or 180 months at the sole discretion of
the Committee. The lump sum payment shall be made, or installment payments shall commence, within sixty (60) days of the Retirement Distribution Date and in the case of installment payments, shall continue until the Retirement Benefit is paid
in full.           
   7   

5.3  
   Retirement Benefit-Amount . If the Retirement Benefit is paid in a lump sum, it shall be the retired Participant s Account Balance determined as of the Retirement
Distribution Date. If the Retirement Benefit is paid in installments, it shall be a constant monthly payment, determined at the beginning of each Plan Year by monthly amortization of the remaining Account Balance over the remaining payment period.
Interest on the unpaid balance will be credited for the remaining periods at 125% of the Moody s Rate established for each of the subsequent Plan Years.         

5.4  
  Death Prior to Completion of Retirement Benefit. If the Participant dies after the Retirement Date and prior to the completion of the Retirement Benefit payments, the retired
Participant s designated Beneficiary will receive any unpaid Retirement Benefit payments due the Participant, either at the times they were to be received by the Participant, or in a lump sum, as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion. If this Section 5.4 applies, a designated Beneficiary shall not be entitled to any benefits provided for under Article 6.        Article 6      Survivor Benefit       

6.1  
   Eligibility for Survivor s Benefit . If a Participant dies before the Retirement Date and before Termination of Employment, the Employer shall pay the Survivor s
Benefit to the deceased Participant s Beneficiary, provided that all of the following conditions are met:         

(a)  
  the Participant s death was determined not to be from a bodily or mental cause or causes, the information about which was withheld, knowingly concealed, or falsely provided by
the Participant, when requested by the Employer to furnish evidence of good health; and         

(b)  
  proof of the Participant s death is furnished to the Committee in such form as determined acceptable by the Committee.         

6.2  
  Survivor s Benefit-Method of Payment. The Survivor s Benefit may be paid in a lump sum, or in installments over a period of 60, 120, or 180 months at the sole discretion
of the Committee. The lump sum payment shall be made, or installment payments shall commence within sixty (60) days of the date the Participant died and in the case of installment payments, shall continue until the Survivor s Benefit is
paid in full.         

6.3  
  Survivor s Benefit-Amount. If the Survivor s Benefit is paid in a lump sum, it shall be the retired Participant s Account Balance determined as of the date the
Participant died. If the Survivor s Benefit is paid in installments, it shall be a constant monthly payment, determined at the beginning of each Plan Year by monthly amortization of the remaining Account Balance over the remaining payment
period. Interest on the unpaid balance will be credited for the remaining periods at 125% of the Moody s Rate established for each of the subsequent Plan Years.           
   8   

6.4  
   Suicide . In the event of a Participant s suicide within twenty-four months of the first deferral of any Deferral Commitment Period, the Employer shall be obligated to
pay to the Participant s designated Beneficiary the Participant s portion of the Deferral Amount, without interest, and no other Survivor s Benefit shall be payable.        Article 7      Termination Benefit       

7.1  
   Eligibility for Termination Benefit . If a Participant experiences a Termination of Employment prior to the Retirement Date, the Employer shall pay to the Participant the
Termination Benefit.         

7.2  
   Termination Benefit . The Termination Benefit is a sum equal to the Participant s Account Balance determined as provided in this Section 7.2, as of the date of
Termination of Employment, and shall be paid in a lump sum within ninety (90) days following the Termination of Employment. In determining the Account Balance for purposes of this Article 7 only, interest shall be calculated in the manner
provided in Section 3.7(a) above, but using the applicable interest rate set forth in the following schedules:         

Number of       Participation Years    
      
   Interest Crediting Rate    
 
     For Employees:    

Less than 2 years   
      
  0   
 
    More than 2 but less than 7   
      
  Moody s Rate   
 
    7 or more   
      
  125% of Moody s Rate   

For Directors:    

All years   
      
  125% of Moody s Rate   
    In the event a Participant is both an Employee and Director, interest shall be credited under the
Employee schedule.      Article 8      Disability       

8.1  
   Eligibility for Disability Waiver . If a Participant suffers a Disability during any Plan Year during the Deferral Commitment Period, the Participant s annual deferral
amount for that Plan Year or any subsequent Plan Year shall, except as provided in this Section 8.1, be as set forth in his or her Election Form for the first six (6) months that a Participant suffers from a Disability and shall be
satisfied from supplemental sources of disability income as provided by either the Company or the Participant. If a Participant s Disability exceeds six (6) consecutive months, the Participant shall be excused from making any additional
deferrals while he or she is suffering from a Disability.           
   9   

8.2  
   Benefits . A Participant suffering a Disability, but not terminated as a result of long-term disability under the Employer s policies and practices, shall continue to be
considered a Participant and shall be eligible for the benefits provided for in Articles 4, 5, 6 or 7 in accordance with the provisions of those Articles.         

8.3  
   Long-Term Disability-Termination . For a Participant who is terminated as a result of disability under the Employer s policies and practices, the provisions of Article 5
shall apply for purposes of Account Balance distribution and interest crediting.        Article 9      Beneficiary       

9.1  
   Beneficiary . Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person or persons as his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (both primary as well as
contingent) to receive any benefits payable under the Plan to a Beneficiary upon the death of a Participant.         

9.2  
   Beneficiary Designation; Change; Spousal Consent . A Participant shall designate his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries by completing and signing the Beneficiary Designation
Form, and returning it to the Committee. A Participant shall have the right to change a Beneficiary by completing, signing and otherwise complying with the terms of the Beneficiary Designation Form and the Committee s rules or procedures, as in
effect from time to time. Upon the acceptance of the Committee of a new Beneficiary Designation form, all Beneficiary designations previously filed shall be canceled. The Committee shall be entitled to rely on the last Beneficiary Designation form
filed by the Participant and accepted by the Committee prior to his or her death.         

9.3  
   Acknowledgment . No designation or change in designation of a Beneficiary shall be effective until received, accepted and acknowledged in writing by the Committee.

9.4  
   No Beneficiary Designation . If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or die prior to
complete distribution of the Participant s benefits, then the Participant s designated Beneficiary shall be deemed to be his or her surviving spouse. If the Participant has no surviving spouse, the benefits remaining under the Plan to be
paid to a Beneficiary shall be payable to the executor or personal representative of the Participant s estate.         

9.5  
   Doubt as to Beneficiary . If the Committee has any doubt as to the proper Beneficiary to receive payments pursuant to this Plan, they shall have the right to withhold such
payments until this matter is resolved to their satisfaction.           
   10   

9.6  
   Discharge of Obligations . The payment of benefits under the Plan to a Beneficiary shall fully and completely discharge the Employer from all further obligations under this
Plan with respect to the deceased Participant and all of his or her Beneficiaries.        Article 10      Leave of Absence       

10.1  
   Authorized Leave of Absence . If a Participant is authorized by the Employer for any reason to take a paid leave of absence from employment, such Participant shall continue to
be considered employed as an Employee or Director and shall be required to maintain the level of deferrals set forth in his or her Plan Agreement in order to keep the Plan Agreement in full force and effect. If such leave of absence is unpaid, the
Participant shall continue to be considered employed as an Employee or Director and will be excused from making deferrals until the unpaid leave of absence ends; provided, however, that if the unpaid leave of absence continues beyond three
consecutive months, the Participant shall be treated as having incurred a Termination of Employment as of the end of such three month period and the Participant shall receive the Termination Benefit in accordance with Article 7. In the case of a
conflict between this Article 10 and Article 8, Article 8 shall prevail.        Article 11      Employer/Participant Liability       

11.1  
   General Assets . Amounts payable to a Participant shall be paid from the general assets of the Employer exclusively.         

11.2  
   Employer s Liability . The Employer s liability for the payment of benefits shall be defined only by this Plan, as entered into between the Employer and a
Participant.         

11.3  
   Limitation of Obligation . The Employer shall have no obligation to a Participant under the Plan, except as expressly provided for in the Plan.         

11.4  
   Participant Cooperation . The Participant must cooperate with the Employer and the Committee in furnishing all information requested by the Employer and/or Committee in order
to facilitate the payment of benefits, and the administration and operations of this Plan. Such information may include taking a physical examination, or other actions, and such cooperation shall extend beyond the termination of the Plan Agreement
and the Employee s Participation in the Plan.         

11.5  
   Unsecured General Creditor . Participants, their Beneficiaries and their permitted heirs, successors and assigns shall have no legal or equitable rights, interest or claims in
any property or assets of the Employer. Any and all of the Employer s assets shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged unrestricted assets of the Employer. The Employer s obligations under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded
and unsecured promise of the Employer to pay money in the future.           
   11   

Article 12      No Guarantee of Employment       

12.1  
   No Guarantee of Employment . Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as altering in any manner the employment relationship with an Employee or Director, which is hereby
acknowledged to be an  at will  employment relationship that can be terminated at any time for any reason, with or without cause, unless otherwise expressly provided in a written employment agreement. All terms and conditions of an
Employee s or Director s current employment shall remain the same. Nothing in this Plan creates, or is meant to create, any obligation on the part of the Employer to keep an Employee or Director employed by the Employer or not to terminate
an Employee or Director at any time and for any reason.        Article 13      Termination, Amendment or Modification of the Plan       

13.1  
   Termination . The Company reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time. Upon termination of the Plan, the Participant s Account Balance shall be paid out in
accordance with the benefits that the Participant would receive if there had occurred a Termination of Employment with respect to the Participant on the date of Plan termination or, if such termination occurs after the Retirement Date, the
Participant had retired on the date of Plan termination. Notwithstanding the above, the termination of the Plan shall not affect any Participant or Beneficiary who has become entitled to the payment of benefits under the Plan as of the date of
termination.         

13.2  
   Amendment . The Company may, at any time, amend or modify the Plan in whole or in part, provided, however, that no amendment or modification shall be effective to decrease or
restrict a Participant s Account Balance in existence at the time the amendment or modification is made, calculated as if there had occurred a Termination of Employment with respect to such Participant as of the effective date of the amendment
or, if such amendment occurs after the Retirement Date, the Participant had retired as of the effective date of the amendment. The amendment or modification of the Plan shall not affect any Participant or Beneficiary who has become entitled to the
payment of benefits under the Plan as of the date of the amendment or modification.         

13.3  
   Termination of Plan Agreement . Absent the earlier termination, modification or amendment of the Plan, the Plan Agreement of any Participant shall terminate upon the full
payment of the applicable benefit provided under Articles 4, 5, 6, or 7, as the case may be.         

(a)  
  All benefits accrued under the Plan as of the date of a Change of Control shall thereafter be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Plan. However, if at any time
during a period of three years following a Change of Control           
   12   

of the Company, the employment of a participant by the Employer is terminated (i) by the Employer for any
reason other than for Cause, or (ii) by the Participant for just reason, then all benefits, including all interest at the full 125% of Moody s rate shall apply and not at the rates applicable in Section 7.2. Such amounts will thereupon be
immediately due and payable in full, less any withholdings required by law, to such Participant, and within ten business days thereafter the Employer, or any successor corporation of the Employer shall deliver payment of such Account Balance to such
Participant.      A Participant shall be deemed to have terminated his or her employment for just reason if he or she resigns voluntarily after
a demotion, a material reduction in his or her authority or responsibility or any reduction in his or her compensation or after being notified of a relocation of his or her work place that would materially increase the commuting distance from his or
her then current principal residence.      A Participant shall be deemed to have been terminated by the Employer for cause only if such
participant has been terminated by reason of (i) a willful failure by such Participant to substantially perform his or her duties other than a failure resulting from the Participant s incapacity due to physical or mental illness, or (ii) a
willful act by the Participant that constitutes gross misconduct and is materially injurious to the Employer. No act or failure to act by a Participant shall be considered  willful  unless committed without good faith and without a
reasonable belief that the act of omission was in the best interests of the Employer.       

(b)  
  As used in this Plan,  Change of Control  means the occurrence of any of the following events:         

(i)  
  Any  person  (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, hereinafter  Person ) becomes the beneficial owner,
directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities ordinarily (and apart from rights accruing under special
circumstances) having the right to vote at elections of directors;         

(ii)  
  A change in the composition of the Board as a result of which fewer than two-thirds (2/3rds) of the incumbent directors are Continuing Directors; or         

(iii)  
  A change of control that would be required to be reported in a proxy statement pursuant to Item 5(f) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
       An individual shall be considered a  Continuing Director  on a particular date if he or she either (i) had been a
member of the Board twenty-four (24) months prior to such date or (ii) was elected, or nominated for election, to the Board with the affirmative votes of atleast a majority of the members of the Board twenty-four (24) months prior to such date and
who were still in office at the time of the election or nomination.         
   13   

13.5  
   Termination, Modification or Amendment Following Change in Control . Following a Change in Control, neither the Company, any subsidiary of the Company nor any corporation,
trust or other Person that succeeds to all or any substantial portion of the assets of the Company shall have the right to terminate, modify, or amend a Plan Agreement in effect prior to such Change in Control, and all benefits under such Plan
Agreement shall thereafter be paid in accordance with the terms of such Plan Agreement as in effect immediately prior to such Change in Control. Any provision of this Plan to the contrary shall be construed in accordance with this Section 13.5.

13.6  
   Legal Fees To Enforce Rights After Change in Control . The Company is aware that upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Board (which might then be composed of new
members) or a shareholder of the Company or of any successor corporation might then cause or attempt to cause the Company or such successor to refuse to comply with its obligations under the Plan and might cause or attempt to cause the Company to
institute, or may institute, litigation seeking to deny Participants the benefits intended under the Plan. In these circumstances, the purpose of the Plan could be frustrated. It is the intent of the Company that Participants not be required to
incur the expenses associated with the enforcement of their rights under the Plan by litigation or other legal action, because the cost and expense thereof would substantially detract from the benefits intended to be extended to Participants
hereunder, and that Participants not be bound to negotiate any settlement of their rights under the Plan under threat of incurring such expenses. Accordingly, if, following a Change in Control, it should appear to any Participant that the Company
has failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Plan or any agreement thereunder or, if the Company or any other Person takes any action to declare the Plan or any agreement hereunder void or unenforceable or institutes any litigation or
other legal action designed to deny, diminish or to recover from any Participant the benefits intended to be provided to each Participant under the Plan, and such Participant has substantially complied with all of his or her obligations under the
Plan and any such agreement, then the Company irrevocably authorizes such Participant from time to time to retain counsel of his or her choice at the expense of the Company to represent such Participant in connection with the initiation or defense
of any litigation or other legal action, whether by or against the Company or any director, officer, shareholder or other person affiliated with the Company or any successor thereto in any jurisdiction. Notwithstanding any existing or prior
attorney-client relationship between the Company and such counsel, the Company irrevocably consents to each Participant s entering into an attorney-client relationship with such counsel, and in that connection the Company and each Participant
agree that a confidential relationship shall exist between each such Participant and his counsel. The Company shall pay or reimburse each Participant for all reasonable fees and expenses of counsel selected by such Participant from time to time on a
regular, periodic basis from presentation of a statement or statements prepared by such counsel in accordance with its customary practices up to a maximum aggregate amount of $500,000.         

13.7  
   Vesting . Notwithstanding anything that may be construed to the contrary in this Plan, a Participant shall at all times be 100% vested in his or her Deferral Amount.
          
   14   

Article 14      Other Benefits and Agreements       

14.1  
   Coordination with Other Benefits . The benefits provided for a Participant and Participant s Beneficiary under the Plan are in addition to any other benefits available to
such Participant under any other plan or program for employees of the Employer. The Plan shall supplement and shall not supersede, modify or amend any other such plan or program except as may otherwise be expressly provided. Article 15 Restrictions
on Alienation of Benefits        Article 15      Restrictions on Alienation of Benefits       

15.1  
   Nonassignability . Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber,
transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt, the amounts if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof. No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to any claims of creditors and, in particular, they
shall not be subject to attachment, garnishment, seizure or sequestration by any creditor for the payment of any debts, judgments, obligations, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant. Article 16 Administration of the Plan
       Article 16      Administration of the Plan       

16.1  
   Committee Administration . The general administration of this Plan, as well as construction and interpretation thereof, shall be the responsibility of the Committee, the
number of members of which shall be designated and appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.         

16.2  
   Committee Authority . Subject to the Plan, the Committee shall from time to time establish rules, forms and procedures for the administration of the Plan. Except as otherwise
expressly provided, the Committee shall have the exclusive right to interpret the Plan and to decide any and all matters arising thereunder. The Committee s decisions shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons having or claiming to have
any right or interest under the Plan.         

16.3  
   Committee Indemnity . No member of the Committee shall be liable for any act or omission of any other member of the Committee, nor for any act or omission on his own part,
excepting his or her own willful misconduct. The Employer shall indemnify and save harmless each member of the Committee against any and all expenses and liabilities arising out of his or her membership on the Committee, with the exception of
expenses and liabilities arising out of his or her own willful misconduct.           
   15   

16.4  
   Employer s Obligations to the Committee . To enable the Committee to perform its functions, each Employer shall supply full and timely information to the Committee on all
matters relating to the compensation of all Participants, their retirement, death, Disability or Termination of Employment, and such other pertinent facts as the Committee may require.         

16.5  
   Committee Discretion in Payment Schedule . The Committee shall also have the power, at its sole discretion, to change the manner and timing of payments to be made to a
Participant or Participant s Beneficiary from that set forth in the Participant s Plan Agreement, if requested to do so by such Participant or Beneficiary. Article 17 Claims Procedures        Article 17      Claims Procedures       

17.1  
   Presentation of Claim . Any Participant or Beneficiary of a deceased Participant (such Participant or Beneficiary being referred to below as a  Claimant ) may
deliver to the Committee a written claim for a determination with respect to the amounts (i) credited to (or deducted from) such Claimant s Participant s Account Balance, or (ii) distributable to such Claimant from the Plan. If
such a claim relates to the contents of a notice received by the Claimant, the claim must be made within 60 days after such notice was received by the Claimant. The claim must state with particularity the determination desired by the Claimant.

17.2  
   Notification of Decision . The Committee shall consider a Claimant s claim within a reasonable time, and shall notify the Claimant in writing:     

(a)  
  that the Claimant s requested determination has been made, and that the claim has been allowed in full; or         

(b)  
  that the Committee has reached a conclusion contrary, in whole or in part, to the Claimant s requested determination, and such notice must set forth in a manner calculated to
be understood by the Claimant:         

(i)  
  the specific reason(s) for the denial of the claim, or any part of it;         

(ii)  
  specific reference(s) to pertinent provisions of the Plan upon which such denial was based;         

(iii)  
  a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect the claim, and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; and
(iv) an explanation of the claim review procedure set forth in Section 17.3.           
   16   

17.3  
   Review of a Denied Claim . Within sixty (60) days after receiving a notice from the Committee that a claim has been denied, in whole or in part, a Claimant (or the
Claimant s duly authorized representative) may file with the Committee a written request for a review of the denial of the claim. Thereafter, but not later than thirty (30) days after the review procedure began, the Claimant (or the
Claimant s duly authorized representative):         

(a)  
  may review pertinent documents;         

(b)  
  may submit written comments or other documents; and/or         

(c)  
  may request a hearing, which the Committee, in its sole discretion, may grant.         

17.4  
   Decision on Review . The Committee shall render its decision on review promptly, and not later than sixty (60) days after the filing of a written request for review of the
denial, unless a hearing is held or other special circumstances require additional time, in which case the Committee s decision must be rendered within 120 days after such date. Such decision must be written in a manner calculated to be
understood by the Claimant, and it must contain:         

(a)  
  specific reasons for the decision;         

(b)  
  specific reference(s) to the pertinent Plan provisions upon which the decision was based; and         

(c)  
  such other matters as the Committee deems relevant. Article 18 Trust        Article 18      Trust       

18.1  
   Establishment of the Trust . The Company shall establish the Trust. The Employer shall at least annually transfer over to the Trust such assets as the Committee determines, in
its sole discretion, are necessary to provide for the Employer s future liabilities created with respect to the Deferral Amounts and interest credits for that year.         

18.2  
   Interrelationship of the Plan and the Trust . The provisions of the Plan and the Plan Agreement shall govern the rights of a Participant to receive distributions pursuant to
the Plan. The provisions of the Trust shall govern the rights of the Employer, Participant and the creditors of the Employer to the assets transferred to the Trust. The Employer shall at all times remain liable to carry out its obligations under the
Plan. The Employer s obligations under the Plan may be satisfied with Trust assets distributed pursuant to the terms of the Trust.           
   17   

Article 19      Miscellaneous       

19.1  
   Notice . Any notice given under the Plan shall be in writing and shall be mailed to:         

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.  

Employee Benefits  

251 South Lake Avenue  

Pasadena, California 91101  

19.2  
   Successors . The Plan shall be binding upon the Employer and its respective successors or assigns, and upon a Participant, the Participant s Beneficiaries and the
Participant s permitted assigns, heirs, executors and administrators.         

19.3  
   Spouse s Interest . The interest in the benefits hereunder of a spouse of a Participant who has predeceased the Participant shall automatically pass to the Participant
and shall not be transferable by such spouse in any manner including but not limited to such spouse s will, nor shall such interest pass under the laws of intestate succession.         

19.4  
   Governing Law . The Plan and Plan Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of California, as in effect at the time of their adoptions and
executions, respectively.         

19.5  
   Pronouns . Masculine pronouns wherever used shall include feminine pronouns and the singular shall include the plural.         

19.6  
   Headings . The headings of the articles, sections and paragraphs of this Plan are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of
its provisions.         

19.7  
   Validity . In the event any provision of this Plan shall be illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity of that provision shall not affect the remaining
parts hereof, but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted herein.           
   18   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. has signed this Plan document this 1st day of December, 1993.

Company    
 
  JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.   

By:  
     
    /s/ John W.Prosser, Jr.    

John W. Prosser, Jr.   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Vice President, Finance   

and Admin. and Treasurer   

(Officer of the Company)   

19   

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.6>
 6
 dex106.htm
 1989 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan 

Exhibit 10.6        JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.       1989 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN      (As Amended and Restated   effective October 1, 2005)       1. Purposes of the Plan.       This Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  Plan ) is intended to encourage stock ownership by employees of
Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (the  Company ) and certain subsidiaries of the Company. The Plan is intended to qualify as an employee stock purchase plan under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code (the  Code ).
      2. Administration.       The Plan shall be administered by
a committee (the  Committee ) appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) from among its members and shall be comprised of not less than three (3) members of the Board. Unless and until its members are
not qualified to serve on the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board shall function as the Committee. Members of the Committee shall be members of the Board who are not eligible to participate under
the Plan or any other plan of the Company or its affiliates authorizing discretionary grants or awards of stock, stock options or stock appreciation rights and who have not been eligible to so participate for at least one (1) year prior to
service as an administrator of the Plan. Eligibility requirements for members of the Committee shall comply with Rule 16b-3 promulgated pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  1934 Act ) or any successor rule or
regulation. No person, other than members of the Committee, shall have any discretion concerning decisions regarding the Plan except as otherwise provided in this Plan. The Committee is authorized to construe and interpret the Plan, to define the
terms used herein, to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations for the administration of the Plan, and to take any other action in connection with the administration of the Plan and Options granted hereunder that it deems proper.
      3. Grant of Options.        

(a)  
  The Company shall grant to all Eligible Employees Options ( Options ) to purchase Common Stock of the Company ( Shares ) in accordance with this Plan. All
employees granted Options under the Plan shall have the same rights and privileges.         

(b)  
  The Options granted under this Plan shall be granted effective only on the first day of a six month election period referred to in Paragraph 5 of the Plan ( Election
Period ). No Option shall be treated as granted prior to the first day of such Election Period.         4. Eligible Employees.

(a)  
  The employees eligible to receive Options under the Plan ( Eligible Employee ) shall be all employees of the Company and all corporations that now are or hereafter become
domestic United States subsidiary corporations (as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code) and all employees of any foreign subsidiary corporation designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors of the Company may
change the designation of the subsidiaries participating in the Plan ( participating subsidiaries ) at any time.         

(b)  
  However, the following employees shall not be Eligible Employees under the Plan:         

(i)  
  Employees who normally work fewer than 20 hours per week;           
   Page 1 of 6 pages   

(ii)  
  Employees who normally work five or fewer months during the fiscal year of the Company;         

(iii)  
  Employees who have completed less than one year of employment by the Company or a participating subsidiary of the Company; and         

(iv)  
  Employees who are not actively employed by the Company at the beginning of a six month Election Period, including employees who are on disability leave or leave of absence.

(c)  
  Employees of participating subsidiaries that have become subsidiaries by reason of having been acquired by the Company or a subsidiary and companies that have been merged with the
Company or a subsidiary shall, in the discretion of the Committee, receive credit for the time they have worked for such acquired or merged company.         

(d)  
  Any employee who would own more than five percent of the Common Stock in the Company immediately after an Option under this Plan is granted shall also be excluded from eligibility.
Stock that the employee may purchase under all outstanding stock options granted to him or her by the Company shall be treated as stock owned by the employee for such purposes, even though the option is not presently exercisable.
        5. Exercise of Option        

(a)  
  An Eligible Employee may exercise his or her Option to acquire Common Stock by completing a Payroll Deduction Authorization Form in such form as approved from time to time by the
Committee. The election to exercise the Option shall be effective for six-month Election Periods commencing January 1, 2006. The Election Periods shall be from January 1 to June 30 and from July 1 to December 31. There will
be a short four-month Election Period from March 1, 2005 to June 30, 2005. There will be a short three-month Election Period from July 1, 2005 to September 30, 2005. There will be a short three-month Election Period from
October 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005. An eligible Employee s election to participate in the Plan shall be irrevocable during each Election Period.         

(b)  
  Eligible Employees who have elected to exercise their Options for any Election Period are sometimes referred to as  Participants  in this Plan.     

(c)  
  In no event may an Option be exercised later than the period of time specified in Section 423(b)(7)(B) of the Code. Except as otherwise provided in Paragraph 12, an Option
shall be treated as exercised on the last day of the six month Election Period.         6. Payment of Purchase Price.        

(a)  
  Each Participant shall pay for the stock subject to his or her option with after-tax salary reduction contributions. The Company shall reduce each Participant s salary or wages
by any whole percentage from 2% to 15% of basic compensation. A Participant s basic compensation shall include only regular fixed basic compensation, and shall not include any bonus, overtime payment, contribution to an employee benefit plan or
other similar payment or contribution.           
   Page 2 of 6 pages   

(b)  
  Each Participant shall specify the amount of salary reduction on a Payroll Deduction Authorization Form to be furnished by the Company. The salary reduction contributions shall
continue throughout the six month Election Period.         

(c)  
  The Company shall begin salary reductions during the pay periods as close as practical to the first day of each Election Period, and shall cease such reductions during the pay
periods as close as practical to the last day of each Election Period.         

(d)  
  The Company shall purchase the option Shares as soon as practical after the end of each Election Period on such dates as determined from time to time by the Committee. The Company
shall then issue Common Stock to Participants who exercised their Options, at the prices specified in Paragraph 8 of this Plan. The number of Shares purchased shall be based on the aggregate amount of salary reduction contributions during each
Election Period. No interest shall accrue on the salary reduction contributions.         7. Fractional Shares.       The Company shall not issue or transfer fractional Shares under the Plan. In the event that the amount of salary reduction contributions of any employee is not exactly
equal to the purchase price for a whole number of Shares, then any excess amount shall be used to purchase additional Shares during the next six month Election Period, or refunded to the Participant without interest if the Participant is not, for
any reason, a Participant in the Plan during the next six month Election Period.       8. Purchase Price.        

(a)  
  The purchase price for the Shares shall be 95% of the fair market value of the Shares on the date of purchase (effective for all purchases on or after October 1, 2005).

(b)  
  The fair market value for such purposes shall be the closing price of the Shares on the composite transactions report of the national securities exchange on which the Shares are
then listed for the day on which the value is to be determined. If such date is a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or other date on which such exchange is closed, then the fair market value shall be determined as the closing price on the first
immediately preceding trading date.         9. Stock Subject to the Plan.       The total number of Shares of Common Stock authorized to be issued under this Plan is 10,813,554 Shares, subject to adjustment as provided in Paragraph 17. These Shares may be authorized but unissued Shares, or issued
Shares which have been reacquired by the Company from any person.       10. Maximum Amount of Option Stock.        

(a)  
  The maximum fair market value of Shares that an employee may accrue the right to purchase under the Plan and any other employee stock purchase plan of the Company or any subsidiary
in any calendar year may not exceed $25,000 or such greater amount as Section 423(b)(8)(B) of the Code, or any successor section, may hereafter allow. The fair market value of the Shares for such purposes shall be determined on the first day of
each six month Election Period.         

(b)  
  The maximum number of Shares that a Participant may purchase for any six month Election Period shall be determined on the first day of each Election           
   Page 3 of 6 pages   

Period and shall be based upon the assumption that the Participant s basic compensation will not
change after such first day of the Election Period. The maximum number of shares shall be equal to the product obtained by multiplying (a) the quotient obtained by dividing 15% of the total basic compensation to be earned by the Participant
during the six month Election Period by an amount equal to 90% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the first day of the Election Period by (b) one and one-half (1 1/2). Subject to the limitation contained in the first paragraph of
this Paragraph 10, any excess withholdings resulting from this limitation shall be used to buy Common Stock during the next six month Election Period or refunded to the employee without interest in the event that the employee does not elect to
purchase Common Stock during the next six month Election Period.       11. Restrictions on Transferability.       A Participant may not transfer an Option other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Only the Participant may exercise an Option during his or her
lifetime.       12. Termination of Employment.       In the event
that a Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or a participating subsidiary for any reason, including death, disability, retirement or voluntary or involuntary termination, then the Participant s rights under the Plan shall terminate.
Except as provided in Paragraph 13, below, the Company shall refund to the Participant without interest the salary reduction contributions made by the Participant during the Election Period in which termination occurs.       13. Designation of Beneficiary.        

(a)  
  A Participant may file, in a manner prescribed by the Committee, a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any Shares or cash under this Plan in the event of such
Participant s death. If a Participant s death occurs subsequent to the end of an Election Period but prior to the delivery to him or her of any Shares deliverable under the terms of this Plan, and after the Committee has received notice of
the death of the Participant, such Shares and any remaining balance of cash shall be delivered to such beneficiary (or such other person as set forth in Section 13(b)) as soon as administratively practicable after the Company receives notice of
such Participant s death and the Participant s Option shall terminate. If a Participant s death occurs at any other time, the balance of such Participant s contributions shall be paid to such beneficiary (or such other person as
set forth in Section 13(b)) in cash as soon as administratively practicable after the Company receives notice of such Participant s death and such Participant s Option shall terminate. If a Participant is married and the designated
beneficiary is not his or her spouse, spousal consent shall be required for such designation to be effective.         

(b)  
  Beneficiary designations may be changed by the Participant (and his or her spouse, if required) at any time on forms provided and in the manner prescribed by the Committee. If a
Participant dies with no validly designated beneficiary under this Plan who is living at the time of such Participant s death, then the Participant s surviving spouse, if any, shall be deemed to be the beneficiary. If a Participant dies
without a surviving spouse and with no validly designated beneficiary under this Plan who is living at the time of such Participant s death, the Company shall deliver all Shares and/or cash payable pursuant to the terms hereof to the executor
or administrator of the estate of the Participant, or if no           
   Page 4 of 6 pages   

such executor or administrator has been appointed, the Company, in its discretion, may deliver such
Shares and/or cash to any one or more dependents or relatives of the Participant, or if no dependent or relative is known to the Company, then to such other person as the Committee deems appropriate.       14. Rights as a Stockholder.       No Participant shall have any rights as
a stockholder as to Shares being purchased during any six month Election Period until after the end of such six month Election Period when the Common Stock has actually been issued to the Participant. No adjustment shall be made or additional amount
paid as a result of dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date of such issuance.       15. Listing, Registration and
Qualification of Shares.       The issuance of Shares under this Plan shall be subject to applicable securities and other laws, including listing of the
Shares on all stock exchanges on which the Shares may be, from time to time, listed and the registration of the Shares and Options under the Securities Act of 1933.       16. Term of the Plan.       The term of the Plan shall be for a period commencing on March 1, 1989 and ending on
March 31, 2009.       17. Amendments.        

(a)  
  The Board may terminate the Plan, in whole or in part, may suspend the Plan, in whole or in part, from time to time and may amend the Plan from time to time, including the adoption
of amendments deemed necessary or desirable to qualify the Plan under the laws of various countries (including tax laws) and under rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) with respect to
employees who are subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the 1934 Act, or to correct any defect or supply an omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Option granted thereunder, without the approval of the stockholders
of the Company; provided, however, that no action shall be taken without the approval of the stockholders of the Company to increase the number of Shares of Stock on which Options may be granted, or materially increase the benefits accruing to
participants under the Plan, or materially modify the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan, or withdraw administration from the Committee, or permit any person while a member of the Committee to be eligible to receive, other
than pursuant to a non-discretionary formula plan, a grant or award of a stock option, a stock appreciation right or other equity security of the Company. Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee may make amendments or adopt rules and
procedures applicable or inapplicable only to Participants who are subject to Section 16 of the 1934 Act.         

(b)  
  No amendment or termination or modification of the Plan shall in any manner affect any Option theretofore granted without the consent of the optionee, except that the Committee may
amend or modify the Plan in a manner that does affect Options theretofore granted upon a finding by the Committee that such amendment or modification is in the best interest of holders of outstanding Options affected thereby.

(c)  
  This Plan is intended to comply with all applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3           

   Page 5 of 6 pages   

or its successors under the 1934 Act, insofar as participants subject to Section 16 of that Act are
concerned. To the extent any provision of the Plan does not so comply, and cannot for any reason be amended by the Board, the provision shall, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by the Committee, be deemed null and void with respect
to such participants.       18. Adjustments for Changes in Common Stock.        

(a)  
  In the event of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, reorganization or other similar event, the Board shall make appropriate and proportionate
adjustments, including the substitution and issuance of securities of any successor corporation for the Shares of the Company to be issued under the Plan, to the maximum number of Shares subject to the Plan, and the price per share subject to
outstanding Options.         

(b)  
  If the Company is acquired by merger or sale of all or substantially all of the Company s assets or outstanding voting stock, then all outstanding Options under the Plan will
automatically be exercised immediately prior to the effective date of such acquisition. The exercise price in such event shall be equal to 95% of the lower of (i) the fair market value per share of the Common Stock on the first day of the
Election Period in which such acquisition occurs and (ii) the fair market value per share of the Common Stock immediately prior to the effective date of such acquisition.         19. Miscellaneous.       This Plan is subject to all of the requirements
of Section 423 of the Code and the regulations thereunder.      This Plan shall not confer any right on an employee to continue in the employment of the
Company or any subsidiary or division of the Company.      The Company shall not be obligated to issue any Shares under the Plan unless and until there has
been compliance with such laws and regulations as the Company deems applicable.         
   Page 6 of 6 pages   

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.12>
 7
 dex1012.htm
 CREDIT AGREEMENT AS OF 12/15/2005

Credit Agreement as of 12/15/2005 

Exhibit 10.12             CREDIT AGREEMENT       Dated as of December 15, 2005      among       JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.       and       CERTAIN SUBSIDIARIES       as Borrowers,
      THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA,       as Canadian Facility Agent and Canadian Swing Line Lender,       WACHOVIA BANK N.A.       and       BNP PARIBAS       as Co-Syndication Agents,       BANK OF
AMERICA, N.A.,       as Administrative Agent, U.S. Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer,      The Other L/C Issuers Party Hereto      and      The Other Lenders Party Hereto       BANC OF
AMERICA SECURITIES LLC,       as      Sole Lead Arranger and Sole Book Manager          

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)        
       
   ii   

TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)        
       
   iii   

SCHEDULES        

10.02  
  Agents  Offices, Certain Addresses for Notices     
     EXHIBITS         Form of         

A-1  
  Tranche 1 Loan Notice     

A-2  
  Canadian Prime Rate Loan Notice     

A-3  
  Drawdown Notice     

A-4  
  Conversion Notice     

A-5  
  Rollover Notice     

B  
  U.S. Swing Line Loan Notice     

C-2  
  Canadian Prime Rate Note     

D  
  Compliance Certificate     

E  
  Assignment and Assumption     

F  
  Company Guaranty     

G-1  
  Foreign Designated Borrower Guaranty     

G-2  
  Subsidiary Guaranty     

H  
  Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement     

I  
  Designated Borrower Notice     

J  
  Opinion Matters     

CREDIT AGREEMENT       This CREDIT AGREEMENT (  Agreement  ) is entered into as of December 15, 2005, among Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ), certain Subsidiaries of
the Company party hereto pursuant to  Section 2.14  (each a   Designated Borrower   and, together with the Company, the   Borrowers   and, each a   Borrower  ), each lender from time to time
party hereto (collectively, the   Lenders   and individually, a   Lender  ), each issuer of letters of credit from time to time party hereto (collectively, the   L/C Issuers   and individually, a
  L/C Issuer  ), THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, as Canadian Facility Agent and Canadian Swing Line Lender, and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent and U.S. Swing Line Lender.      The Company has requested that the Tranche 1 Lenders provide a multicurrency revolving credit facility (including letters of credit) with a
U.S. Dollar swing line subfacility, and the Tranche 1 Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.      The
Company has requested that the Tranche 2 Lenders provide a Canadian Dollar revolving credit facility and bankers  acceptance facility with a U.S. Dollar and Canadian Dollar swing line subfacility, and the Tranche 2 Lenders are willing to
do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.      In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties
hereto covenant and agree as follows:       ARTICLE I.        DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS        

1.01   
   Defined Terms  .  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:          Administrative Agent   means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor
administrative agent.        Acquisition   means any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or
resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of a Person, or of any business or division of a Person, (b) the acquisition of in excess of 50% of the capital stock, partnership
interests, membership interests or equity of any Person, or otherwise causing any Person to become a Subsidiary, or (c) a merger or consolidation or any other combination with another Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary of the
Company).        Administrative Agent s Office   means, with respect to any currency, the Administrative Agent s
address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on  Schedule 10.02  with respect to such currency, or such other address or account with respect to such currency as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Company,
the Canadian Facility Agent and the Lenders.        Administrative Questionnaire   means an Administrative Questionnaire in a
form supplied by the Administrative Agent.         
   1   

Affiliate   means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or
indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.   Control   means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction
of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.   Controlling   and   Controlled   have meanings correlative thereto.        Agents   means the Administrative Agent and the Canadian Facility Agent.        Agent/BAS Fee Letter   means the letter agreement, dated November 23, 2005, among the Company, the Administrative Agent and the
Arranger.        Aggregate Commitments   means the Commitments of all the Lenders.        Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments   means the Tranche 1 Commitments of all the Tranche 1 Lenders.        Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments   means the Tranche 2 Commitments of all the Tranche 2 Lenders.        Agreement   means this Credit Agreement.        Alternative Currency   means each of Euro, Sterling, Singapore Dollars, Swedish Krona, and each other currency (other than U.S. Dollars or Canadian Dollars) that is approved in accordance with
 Section 1.07 .        Alternative Currency Reserve   means the U.S. Dollar amount equal to 5% of Total
Outstandings denominated in Alternative Currencies.        Applicable Agent   shall mean the Administrative Agent in the case of
Tranche 1 Loans, Letters of Credit and U.S. Swing Line Loans and the Canadian Facility Agent in the case of Tranche 2 Loans and Canadian Swing Line Loans.        Applicable Tranche 1 Rate   means the following percentages per annum, based upon the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as set forth in the most recent Compliance Certificate received by the Administrative
Agent pursuant to  Section 6.02(b) :       
    Any increase or decrease in the Applicable Tranche 1 Rate resulting from a change in the
Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall become effective as of the first Business Day immediately         
   2   

following the date a Compliance Certificate is delivered pursuant to  Section 6.02(b) ;  provided ,
 however , that if a Compliance Certificate is not delivered when due in accordance with such Section, then Pricing Level IV shall apply as of the first Business Day after the date on which such Compliance Certificate was required to have been
delivered. At any time that an Event of Default exists, the Applicable Tranche 1 Rate then in effect, for purposes of determining the Letter of Credit fees payable under  Section 2.03(i) , shall be increased by adding 2% to the Applicable
Tranche 1 Rate determined as provided above. The Applicable Tranche 1 Rate in effect from the Closing Date shall be determined based upon Pricing Level I.        Applicable Tranche 2 Rate   means the following percentages per annum, based upon the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as set forth in the most recent Compliance Certificate received by the Administrative
Agent pursuant to  Section 6.02(b) :       
    Any increase or decrease in the Applicable Tranche 2 Rate resulting from a change in the
Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall become effective as of the first Business Day immediately following the date a Compliance Certificate is delivered pursuant to  Section 6.02(b) ;  provided ,  however , that if a Compliance
Certificate is not delivered when due in accordance with such Section, then Pricing Level IV shall apply as of the first Business Day after the date on which such Compliance Certificate was required to have been delivered. The Applicable Tranche 2
Rate in effect from the Closing Date shall be determined based upon Pricing Level I.        Applicable Time   means, with
respect to any borrowings and payments with respect to the Tranche 1 Loans in any Alternative Currency, the local time in the place of settlement for such Alternative Currency as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C
Issuer, as the case may be, to be necessary for timely settlement on the relevant date in accordance with normal banking procedures in the place of payment.        Applicant Borrower   has the meaning specified in  Section 2.14(a) .        Approved Fund   means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.        Arranger   means Banc of America Securities LLC, in its capacity as sole lead arranger and sole book manager.        Assignee Group   means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the
same investment advisor.         
   3   

Assignment and Assumption   means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender
and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by  Section 10.06(b)) , and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of  Exhibit E  or any other form approved by the
Administrative Agent.        Attributable Indebtedness   means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any
Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, (b) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease
payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease, and (c) in respect of any Permitted Securitization, an
amount equal to (i) the outstanding principal amount of Indebtedness incurred at such time by the Securitization Subsidiary, or (ii) if the Securitization Subsidiary has incurred no such Indebtedness, the unrecovered purchase price of all
Permitted Receivables (or interest therein) sold or transferred by such Securitization Subsidiary to the conduit entity or other receivables credit provider relating to such Permitted Securitization.        Audited Financial Statements   means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year
ended September 30, 2004, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders  equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Company and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.        Availability Period   means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the
date of termination of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments or Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments, as the case may be, pursuant to  Section 2.06 , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans
and of the obligation of the L/C Issuers to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to  Section 8.02 .        BA Discount
Rate   means:       

(a)  
  in relation to a Bankers  Acceptance accepted by a Tranche 2 Lender that is a Schedule I Bank, the CDOR Rate;         

(b)  
  in relation to a Bankers  Acceptance accepted by a Tranche 2 Lender that is a Schedule II Bank or a Schedule III Bank, the lesser of:         

(i)  
  the Discount Rate then applicable to bankers  acceptances accepted by such Schedule II Bank or Schedule III Bank; and         
     provided  that if both such rates are equal, then the  BA Discount Rate  applicable thereto shall be the rate specified in clause (i) above; and       

(c)  
  in relation to a BA Equivalent Advance:         

(i)  
  made by a Lender that is a Schedule I Bank, the CDOR Rate; and           
   4   

(ii)  
  made by a Lender that is a Schedule II Bank or Schedule III Bank, the rate determined in accordance with subparagraph (b) of this definition; and

(iii)  
  made by any other Tranche 2 Lender, the CDOR Rate  plus  0.10% per annum.          BA Equivalent Advance   means, in relation to a Drawdown of, Conversion into or Rollover of Bankers  Acceptances, a loan in Canadian Dollars made by a Non-Acceptance Lender as part of such Loan.
       Bank of America   means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.        Bankers  Acceptance   means a draft in Canadian Dollars drawn by a Borrower, accepted by a Tranche 2 Lender and issued for value
pursuant to this Agreement.        Base Rate   means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of
(a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its  prime rate.  The  prime rate  is a rate set by Bank of
America based upon various factors including Bank of America s costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such
announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.        Base Rate Tranche 1 Loan   means a Tranche 1 Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.        Base Rate Loan   means a Tranche 1 Loan or U.S. Swing Line Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate. All Base Rate Loans shall be
denominated in U.S. Dollars.        Borrower   and   Borrowers   each has the meaning specified in the
introductory paragraph hereto.        Borrower Materials   has the meaning specified in  Section 6.02 .        Borrowing   means a Committed Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.        Business Day   means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws
of, or are in fact closed in, New York and the state where the Administrative Agent s Office with respect to Obligations denominated in U.S. Dollars is located and:      (a) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in U.S. Dollars, any fundings,
disbursements, settlements and payments in U.S. Dollars in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in U.S. Dollars to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means any such
day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. Dollars are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market;         
   5   

(b) if such day relates to any Borrowing of Canadian Prime Rate Loans or Canadian Swing
Line Loans, any Drawdown of, Conversion into or Rollover of Bankers  Acceptances, any other fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Canadian Dollars or U.S. Dollars in respect of a Tranche 2 Loan or a Canadian Swing Line Loan, or
any other dealings in Canadian Dollars or U.S. Dollars to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Tranche 2 Loan or Canadian Swing Line Loan, means any such day on which banks are open for business in Calgary, Alberta and
Toronto, Ontario, other than a Saturday or Sunday;      (c) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a
Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Euro, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Euro in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any
such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means a TARGET Day;      (d) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency
Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than U.S. Dollars or Euro, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in the relevant currency are conducted by and between banks in the London or other applicable offshore interbank market for such
currency; and      (e) if such day relates to any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in a currency other than
U.S. Dollars or Euro in respect of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than U.S. Dollars or Euro, or any other dealings in any currency other than U.S. Dollars or Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of
any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan (other than any interest rate settings), means any such day on which banks are open for foreign exchange business in the principal financial center of the country of such currency.        Canadian Base Rate   means, on any day, the greater of (a) 1/2 of 1%  plus  the Federal Funds Rate on such day; and
(b) the variable rate of interest expressed as a percentage per annum determined, announced and adjusted by the Canadian Facility Agent from time to time as a reference rate for commercial loans made by the Canadian Facility Agent in Canada in
U.S. Dollars on such day.        Canadian Base Rate Loan   means a Loan in U.S. Dollars made by each of the Tranche 2 Lenders to
any Borrower designated to receive Tranche 2 Loans hereunder.        Canadian Base Rate Loan Borrowing   means a borrowing
consisting of simultaneous Canadian Base Rate Loans and made by each of the Tranche 2 Lenders pursuant to  Section 2.02 .        Canadian Dollar   and   Cdn.$   mean lawful money of Canada.        Canadian Dollar
Equivalent   means, at any time, with respect to any amount denominated in U.S. Dollars, the equivalent amount thereof in Canadian Dollars as determined by the Administrative Agent, the Canadian Facility Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer,
as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of Canadian Dollars with U.S. Dollars.         
   6   

Canadian Facility Agent   means Scotiabank in its capacity as Canadian administrative
agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor Canadian administrative agent.        Canadian Facility Agent s
Office   means, with respect to Canadian Dollars or U.S. Dollars, as applicable, the Canadian Facility Agent s address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on  Schedule 10.02  with respect to such currency, or such other
address or account with respect to such currency as the Canadian Facility Agent may from time to time notify to the Company, each Canadian Swing Line Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Tranche 2 Lenders.        Canadian Prime Rate   means, for any day, the greater of: (a) the rate of interest per annum established from time to time by the
Canadian Facility Agent as the reference rate of interest for the determination of interest rates that the Canadian Facility Agent will charge to customers of varying degrees of creditworthiness in Canada for Canadian Dollar demand loans in Canada;
and (b) the rate of interest per annum equal to the average annual yield rate for one month Canadian Dollar bankers  acceptances (expressed for such purpose as a yearly rate per annum in accordance with  Section 2.10 ) which rate
is shown on the display referred to as the  CDOR Page  (or any display substituted therefor) of Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service at 10:00 a.m. (Toronto time) on such day or, if such day is not a Business Day, on the immediately
preceding Business Day,  plus  0.50% per annum;  provided  that if both such rates are equal or if such one month bankers  acceptance rate is unavailable for any reason on any date of determination, then the  Canadian Prime
Rate  shall be the rate specified in clause (a) of this definition.        Canadian Prime Rate Loan   has the meaning
specified in  Section 2.02(a) . All Canadian Prime Rate Loans shall bear interest based on the Canadian Prime Rate and shall be denominated in Canadian Dollars.        Canadian Prime Rate Loan Borrowing   means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Canadian Prime Rate Loans and made by each of the Tranche 2 Lenders pursuant to  Section 2.02 .   
    Canadian Prime Rate Loan Notice   means a notice of a borrowing of Canadian Prime Rate Loans, pursuant to
 Section 2.02(b) , which shall be substantially in the form of  Exhibit A-2 .        Canadian Prime Rate Note  
means a promissory note made by a Borrower in favor of a Tranche 2 Lender evidencing Canadian Prime Rate Loans made by such Tranche 2 Lender to such Borrower, substantially in the form of  Exhibit C-2 .        Canadian Swing Line   means the revolving credit facility made available by the Canadian Swing Line Lender pursuant to
 Section 2.02 .        Canadian Swing Line Borrower   means any Designated Borrower designated to receive Tranche 2
Loans hereunder which has been further designated by the Company in a notice to the Canadian Swing Line Lender as the permissible recipient of Canadian Swing Line Loans.        Canadian Swing Line Borrowing   means a borrowing of a Canadian Swing Line Loan pursuant to  Section 2.02 .         
   7   

Canadian Swing Line Lender   means Scotiabank in its capacity as provider of Canadian
Swing Line Loans, or any successor Canadian Swing Line lender hereunder.        Canadian Swing Line Loan   has the meaning
specified in  Section 2.02(f) .        Canadian Swing Line Sublimit   means an amount equal to the lesser of
(a) Cdn.$8,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments. The Canadian Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments.        Canadian Usage Limit   has the meaning specified in  Section 2.02(f) .        Cash Collateral   means Tranche 1 Cash Collateral or Tranche 2 Cash Collateral.        CDOR Rate   means, on any date which Bankers  Acceptances are to be issued pursuant hereto, the per annum rate of interest which is
the rate determined by the Canadian Facility Agent as being the arithmetic average of the annual yield rates applicable to Canadian Dollar bankers  acceptances having identical issue and comparable maturity dates as the Bankers 
Acceptances proposed to be issued by the applicable Borrower displayed and identified as such on the display referred to as the  CDOR Page  (or any display substituted therefor) of Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service as at approximately
10:00 a.m. (Toronto time) on such day, or if such day is not a Business Day, then on the immediately preceding Business Day (as adjusted by the Canadian Facility Agent in good faith after 10:00 a.m. (Toronto time) to reflect any error in a
posted rate or in the posted average annual rate);  provided ,  however , if such a rate does not appear on such CDOR Page, then the CDOR Rate, on any day, shall be the Discount Rate quoted by the Canadian Facility Agent (determined as of
10:00 a.m. (Toronto time) on such day) which would be applicable in respect of an issue of bankers  acceptances in a comparable amount and with comparable maturity dates to the Bankers  Acceptances proposed to be issued by the
applicable Borrower on such day, or is such day is not a Business Day, then on the immediately preceding Business Day.        Change in
Law   means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the
administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.        Change of Control   means, with respect to any Person, an event or series of related events by which any  person  or
 group  (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee,
agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the equity securities of
such Person ordinarily entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of such Person, on a fully-diluted basis.        Closing Date   means the first date all the conditions precedent in  Section 4.01  are satisfied or waived in accordance with  Section 4.01  (or, in the case of
 Section 4.01(a)(viii)  or 4.01(c), waived by the Person entitled to receive the applicable payment).         
   8   

Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.        Commitment   means, as to each Lender, the sum of its Tranche 1 Commitment and its Tranche 2 Commitment.        Committed Borrowing   means a Tranche 1 Borrowing or a Tranche 2 Borrowing.        Committed Loan   means a Tranche 1 Loan or a Tranche 2 Loan.        Committed Loan Notice   means Tranche 1 Loan Notice or a Tranche 2 Loan Notice.        Company   has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.        Company Guaranty   means the Company Guaranty made by the Company in favor of the Agents and the Lenders, substantially in the form of
 Exhibit F .        Compliance Certificate   means a certificate substantially in the form of  Exhibit D .   
    Consolidated EBITDA   means, for any period, the Company s Consolidated Net Income, plus (a) Consolidated Interest Charges,
(b) tax expense, and (c) depreciation and amortization of intangibles. For purposes of this definition only, Consolidated Net Income shall be calculated excluding any (i) extraordinary gains and extraordinary losses,
(ii) non-cash restructuring charges, but only to the extent that no cash payments will be made (or required to be made) in a future period in respect of such non-cash restructuring charges, and (iii) non-cash impairment charges, provided
that the aggregate amount of such non-cash impairment charges shall not exceed U.S.$50,000,000 in any twelve-month period.        Consolidated Funded Indebtedness   means, as of any date of determination, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether
current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder) and the outstanding principal amount of all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments, (b) all purchase money
Indebtedness, (c) all direct obligations arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial Credits, bankers  acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments (except as provided below), (d) all
obligations in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business), (e) Attributable Indebtedness in respect of capital leases, Synthetic Lease Obligations and
Permitted Securitizations, (f) without duplication, all Guarantees with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in clauses (a) through (e) above of Persons other than the Company or any Subsidiary, and (g) all
Indebtedness of the types referred to in clauses (a) through (f) above of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which the Company or a Subsidiary is a
general partner or joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to the Company or such Subsidiary;  provided  that for purposes of determining compliance with  Section 7.12(b) ,   Consolidated Funded
Indebtedness   shall include the aggregate undrawn stated amount of all Financial Credits and all payment and reimbursement obligations due in respect thereof;  provided   further  that for purposes of determining the Applicable
Tranche 1 Rate or the Applicable Tranche 2 Rate,   Consolidated Funded Indebtedness   shall exclude the aggregate undrawn stated amount of any         
   9   

Financial Credits but shall include all payment and reimbursement obligations due in respect thereof; and  provided 
 further  that   Consolidated Funded Indebtedness   shall exclude the aggregate undrawn stated amount of all Performance Credits, but shall include all payment and reimbursement obligations due in respect thereof.        Consolidated Interest Charges   means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, all interest
expense in such period determined in accordance with GAAP.        Consolidated Leverage Ratio   means, as of any date of
determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently ended for which the Company has delivered financial statements
pursuant to  Section 6.01(a)  or  (b) .        Consolidated Net Income   means, for any period, the
Company s consolidated net income as determined in accordance with GAAP.        Consolidated Net Worth   means, as of any
date of determination, Shareholders  Equity  minus  any amounts attributable to preferred stock that is mandatorily redeemable, or redeemable at the option of the holder thereof, at any time prior to the date that is one year after the
Maturity Date.        Contractual Obligation   means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or
of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.        Control   has the meaning specified in the definition of  Affiliate.         Conversion  
means a conversion or deemed conversion of any Bankers  Acceptance into a Canadian Prime Rate Loan, or a conversion of any Canadian Prime Rate Loan into a Bankers  Acceptance, in accordance with the provisions of  Section 2.05 .
       Conversion Date   means the date specified by the Company as being the date on which the Company has elected to convert,
or this Agreement requires the conversion of, any Bankers  Acceptance into a Canadian Prime Rate Loan, or the Company has elected to convert any Canadian Prime Rate Loan into a Bankers  Acceptance, and which shall be a Business Day.
       Conversion Notice   means a notice of Conversion of Canadian Prime Rate Loans into Bankers  Acceptances or
Conversion of Bankers  Acceptances into Canadian Prime Rate Loans, which shall be substantially in the form of  Exhibit A-4 .        Credit Extension   means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.        Debtor Relief Laws   means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act (Canada), the Companies  Creditors Arrangement Act (Canada), the Winding Up Act (Canada), and all other
liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States, Canada or other applicable jurisdictions from
time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.         
   10   

Default   means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that,
with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.        Default Rate   means
(a) with respect to the Tranche 1 Loans, U.S. Swing Line Loans and other Obligations (other than the Tranche 2 Loans and the Canadian Swing Line Loans), an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate  plus  (ii) the Applicable
Tranche 1 Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Loans  plus  (iii) 2% per annum;  provided ,  however , that with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate
(including any Applicable Tranche 1 Rate and any Mandatory Cost) otherwise applicable to such Tranche 1 Loan plus 2% per annum; (b) with respect to the Tranche 2 Loans in Canadian Dollars and the Canadian Swing Line Loans in Canadian
Dollars, an interest rate equal to (i) the Canadian Prime Rate  plus  (ii) the Applicable Tranche 2 Rate, if any, applicable to Canadian Prime Rate Loans  plus  (iii) 2% per annum; and (c) with respect to the
Canadian Base Rate Loans and the Canadian Swing Line Loans in U.S. Dollars, an interest rate equal to (i) the Canadian Base Rate  plus  (ii) the Applicable Tranche 2 Rate, if any, applicable to Canadian Base Rate Loans  plus 
(iii) 2% per annum.        Defaulting Lender   means (a) in the connection with any Tranche 1 Loans, L/C
Obligations or U.S. Swing Line Loans, any Tranche 1 Lender that (i) has failed to fund any portion of the Tranche 1 Loans, participations in L/C Obligations or participations in U.S. Swing Line Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within
one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (ii) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Tranche 1 Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of
the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (iii) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding; and (b) in the connection with any Tranche 2 Loans or Canadian Swing Line
Loans, any Tranche 2 Lender that (i) has failed to fund any portion of the Tranche 2 Loans or participations in Canadian Swing Line Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it
hereunder, (ii) has otherwise failed to pay over to an Agent or any other Tranche 2 Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or
(iii) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.        Designated
Borrower   has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.        Designated Borrower Notice   has the
meaning specified in  Section 2.14(a) .        Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement   has the meaning
specified in  Section 2.14(a) .        Discount Proceeds   means the net cash proceeds to a Borrower from the sale of
a Bankers  Acceptance pursuant hereto, in the case of  Section 2.05(f)  or BA Equivalent Advances, at the BA Discount Rate, in any case, before deduction or payment of the fees to be paid to the Tranche 2 Lenders under
 Section 2.05(c) .         
   11   

Discount Rate   means, with respect to the issuance of a bankers  acceptance, the
rate of interest per annum, calculated on the basis of a year of 365 days (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%), which is equal to the discount exacted by a purchaser taking initial delivery of such
bankers  acceptance, calculated as a rate per annum and as if the issuer thereof received the discount proceeds in respect of such bankers  acceptance on its date of issuance and had repaid the respective face amount of such bankers 
acceptance on the maturity date thereof.        Disposition   or   Dispose   means the sale, transfer, license,
lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and
claims associated therewith.        Domestic Subsidiary   means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political
subdivision of the United States.        Domestic Designated Borrower   means any Designated Borrower that is not a Foreign
Designated Borrower.        Drawdown   means the issuance of Bankers  Acceptances (or the making of a BA Equivalent Advance
in lieu thereof) other than as a result of Conversions or Rollovers.        Drawdown Date   means the date on which a Drawdown
is made by a Borrower pursuant to the provisions hereof and which shall be a Business Day.        Drawdown Notice   means a
notice of Drawdown of Bankers  Acceptances pursuant to  Section 2.05 , which shall be substantially in the form of  Exhibit A-3 .        Eligible Assignee   means (a) a Lender; (b) an Affiliate of a Lender; (c) an Approved Fund; and (d) any other Person (other than a natural person) approved by (i) the
Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers with outstanding Letters of Credit and the U.S. Swing Line Lender, in the case of an assignment by a Tranche 1 Lender, and the Canadian Swing Line Lender, in the case of an assignment by a Tranche 2 Lender,
(ii) the Administrative Agent and the Canadian Facility Agent, in the case of an assignment by a Tranche 2 Lender, and (iii) unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company (each such approval not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed);  provided  that, notwithstanding the foregoing,  Eligible Assignee  shall not include the Company or any of the Company s Affiliates or Subsidiaries; and  provided   further ,  however  that
(A) an Eligible Assignee in respect of the Tranche 1 Loans and participations in L/C Obligations and U.S. Swing Line Loans shall include only a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or another Person, which, through its Lending Offices, is capable
of lending the applicable Alternative Currencies to the relevant Borrowers without the imposition of any additional Indemnified Taxes, and (B) an Eligible Assignee in respect of the Tranche 2 Loans and participations in Canadian Swing Line
Loans shall include only a Schedule I Bank, a Schedule II Bank, a Schedule III Bank or another Person who is a resident of Canada or otherwise not subject to withholding tax for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) and the regulations
promulgated thereunder.         
   12   

EMU   means the economic and monetary union in accordance with the Treaty of Rome 1957,
as amended by the Single European Act 1986, the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and the Amsterdam Treaty of 1998.        EMU
Legislation   means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.        Environmental Laws   means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises,
licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and
discharges to waste or public systems.        ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.        ERISA Affiliate   means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Company within the meaning of
Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).        ERISA Event   means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA
during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial
withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination
under Sections 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination
of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA,
upon the Company or any ERISA Affiliate.        Escalating Credit   means a Letter of Credit which provides for a stated amount
that automatically increases from time to time in accordance with its terms.        Euro   and   EUR   mean the
lawful currency of the Participating Member States introduced in accordance with the EMU Legislation.        Eurocurrency Rate  
means, for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (  BBA LIBOR  ), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing
quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in the relevant currency (for delivery
on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason,         
   13   

then the  Eurocurrency Rate  for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the
Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in the relevant currency for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in Same Day Funds in the approximate amount of the Eurocurrency Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank
of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America s London Branch (or other Bank of America branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market for such currency
at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.        Eurocurrency Rate Loan   means a Tranche 1 Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurocurrency Rate. Eurocurrency Rate Loans may be denominated in U.S. Dollars or in an Alternative Currency. All Tranche 1 Loans
denominated in an Alternative Currency must be Eurocurrency Rate Loans.        Event of Default   has the meaning specified in
 Section 8.01 .        Excluded Taxes   means, with respect to either Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuers or any other
recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes),
by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any
branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which such Borrower is located and (c) except as provided in the following sentence, in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an
assignee pursuant to a request by the Company under  Section 10.14 ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office)
or is attributable to such Foreign Lender s failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with  Section 3.01(e) , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at
the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the applicable Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to  Section 3.01(a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this definition,  Excluded Taxes  shall not include any withholding tax imposed at any time on payments made by or on behalf of a Foreign Obligor to any Lender hereunder or under any other Loan Document,  provided  that
such Lender shall have complied with the last paragraph of  Section 3.01(e) .        Existing Credit Agreement   means
that certain Credit Agreement dated as of August 22, 2003, as amended by the Amendment Agreement, dated as of June 7, 2004, and as further amended by the Second Amendment, dated as of January 31, 2005, among the Company, the
Designated Borrowers party thereto, the Agents, the L/C Issuers, the Swing Line Lenders and the Lenders party thereto.        Existing
Letters of Credit   means the standby letters of credit listed on  Schedule 1.01-2 .        Federal Funds Rate  
means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal         
   14   

Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the
Business Day next succeeding such day;  provided  that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next
succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to
Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.        Financial Credit   means a
Letter of Credit used directly or indirectly to cover a default in payment of any financial contractual obligation the Company and its Subsidiaries, including insurance-related obligations and payment obligations under specific contracts in respect
of Indebtedness undertaken by the Company or any Subsidiary, and any Letter of Credit issued in favor of a bank or other surety who in connection therewith issues a guarantee or similar undertaking, performance bond, surety bond or other similar
instrument that covers a default in payment of any such financial contractual obligations, that is classified as a financial standby Letter of Credit by the FRB or by the OCC.        FLOC Obligations   means, as at any date of determination, L/C Obligations in respect of Financial Credits.        FLOC Sublimit   means an amount equal to U.S.$150,000,000. The FLOC Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Tranche 1
Commitments.        Foreign Currency Equivalent   means, at any time, with respect to any amount denominated in U.S. Dollars,
the equivalent amount thereof in Canadian Dollars or the applicable Alternative Currency as determined by the Administrative Agent, the Canadian Facility Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot
Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of Canadian Dollars or such Alternative Currency with U.S. Dollars.        Foreign Designated Borrower   means any Designated Borrower that is a Foreign Subsidiary.        Foreign Designated Borrower Guaranty   means the Foreign Designated Borrower Guaranty made by the Foreign Designated Borrowers in favor of the Agents and the Lenders, substantially in the form of  Exhibit G-1 .
       Foreign Lender   means, with respect to any Borrower, any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other
than that in which such Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each state thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.        Foreign Plan   means any employee benefit plan maintained by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries which is mandated or governed by any
Laws of any Governmental Authority other than the United States or a state thereof.         
   15   

Foreign Subsidiary   means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a
jurisdiction other than the United States, a state thereof or the District of Columbia.        FRB   means the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.        Fund   means any Person (other than a natural person) that
is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.        GAAP   means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the
circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.        Governmental Authority   means the government of the
United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing,
regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).        Guarantee   means, as to any Person, any (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the
economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the  primary obligor ) in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or
indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in
respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of
income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or
other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other
Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person. The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in
respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith. The term  Guarantee  as a verb has a
corresponding meaning.        Guaranties   means the Company Guaranty, the Subsidiary Guaranty and the Foreign Designated
Borrower Guaranty.         
   16   

Indebtedness   means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of
the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:      (a) the principal amount of
all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and the principal amount of all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments;      (b) all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers 
acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments;      (c) net obligations of such Person under any Swap
Contract;      (d) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade
accounts payable in the ordinary course of business);      (e) indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a
Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse;
     (f) Attributable Indebtedness in respect of capital leases, Synthetic Lease Obligations and Permitted Securitizations; and
     (g) all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.      For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person (x) shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint
venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to such Person and (y) shall exclude the aggregate undrawn
stated amount of all Financial Credits and all Performance Credits, but shall include all payment and reimbursement obligations due in respect thereof. The amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the
Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date.        Indemnified Taxes   means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.        Indemnitees   has the meaning specified in  Section 10.04(b) .        Information   has the meaning specified in  Section 10.07 .        Insolvent Domestic Subsidiary Limit   means, at any time, any of the following: (i) the sum of the revenues of all Insolvent
Domestic Subsidiaries (based, in each case, upon the twelve-month period ended prior to the date on which any such Subsidiary became an Insolvent Domestic Subsidiary) equals or exceeds five percent (5%) or more of the Company s
consolidated total revenue for the twelve-month period ending at the end of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding the date of calculation; or (ii) the sum of the contribution of all Insolvent         
   17   

Domestic Subsidiaries (based, in each case, upon the contribution of each such Insolvent Domestic Subsidiary in the four
fiscal quarters immediately preceding the date on which any such Subsidiary became an Insolvent Domestic Subsidiary) to the Company s Consolidated EBITDA equals or exceeds five percent (5%) of the Company s Consolidated EBITDA for the
four fiscal quarters immediately preceding the date of calculation; or (iii) the sum of the net book value of the assets of all Insolvent Domestic Subsidiaries, (determined, in each case, as of the end of the fiscal quarter immediately
preceding the date on which any such Subsidiary became an Insolvent Domestic Subsidiary) equals or exceeds five percent (5%) or more of the Company s net book value of total assets as of the end of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding
the date of calculation, in each case, based upon the Company s most recent annual or quarterly financial statements delivered to the Administrative Agent under  Section 6.01 . As used in this definition,   Insolvent Domestic
Subsidiary   means each Domestic Subsidiary of the Company which, after the Closing Date, (A) instituted, or consented to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or made an assignment for the benefit of creditors,
or applied for or consented to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer was
appointed without the application or consent of such Subsidiary and the appointment continued undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Subsidiary or to all or any material part
of its property was instituted without the consent of such Subsidiary and continued undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief was entered in any such proceeding, or (B) (x) became unable or admitted in writing
its inability or failed generally to pay its debts as they became due, or (y) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process was issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and was not
released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy.        Intangible Assets   means assets that are
considered to be intangible assets under GAAP.        Interest Payment Date   means, (a) as to any Eurocurrency Rate Loan,
the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date;  provided ,  however , that if any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months
after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a U.S. Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date; and
(c) as to any Canadian Prime Rate Loan, Canadian Base Rate Loan or Canadian Swing Line Loan, the last Business Day of each month and the Maturity Date.        Interest Period   means, (a) as to each Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Rate Loan
and ending on the date one week, or one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Company in its Tranche 1 Loan Notice; and (b) as to each Bankers  Acceptance, the period commencing on the Drawdown Date, Conversion Date or
Rollover Date for such Bankers  Acceptance and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter (or such other longer or shorter term as agreed by the Tranche 2 Lenders), as selected by the Company in its Drawdown Notice, Conversion
Notice or Rollover Notice, as the case may be, subject to market availability;  provided  that:         
   18   

(i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day
shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;      (ii) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically
corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and      (iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.        Investment   means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the
purchase or other acquisition of capital stock or other securities of another Person or (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or equity
participation or interest in, another Person, including any partnership or joint venture interest in such other Person. For purposes of covenant compliance, the amount of any Investment in another Person shall be the amount actually invested,
without adjustment for subsequent increases or decreases in the value of such Investment,  less  the amount of cash distributions received by such Person from the Person in which such Investment was made.        IP Rights   has the meaning set forth in  Section 5.17 .        IRS   means the United States Internal Revenue Service.        ISP   means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the  International Standby Practices 1998  published by the Institute of International Banking Law   Practice (or such later
version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).        Issuer Documents   means with respect to any Letter of
Credit, any Letter Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Company (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of any such Person and relating to any such Letter of Credit, including
any of such L/C Issuer s standard form documents for issuances and amendments of letters of credit.        Issuer Fee
Letter   means (i) as to Bank of America, the letter agreement, dated November 23, 2005, between the Company and the Administrative Agent relating to the fronting and agency fees payable to Bank of America pursuant to
 Section 2.03(j) , and (ii) as to any other L/C Issuer, any letter agreement or other document, agreement or instrument setting forth the agreement between the Company and such L/C Issuer relating to the fronting fee payable to such
L/C Issuer pursuant to  Section 2.03(j) .        Issuer Sublimit   has the meaning specified in
 Section 2.03(m)(ii) .        Laws   means, collectively, all foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties,
rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged         
   19   

with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed
duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority.        L/C Advance  
means, with respect to each Tranche 1 Lender, such Tranche 1 Lender s funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Pro Rata Share. All L/C Advances shall be denominated in U.S. Dollars.        L/C Borrowing   means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the
date when made or refinanced as a Tranche 1 Borrowing. All L/C Borrowings shall be denominated in U.S. Dollars.        L/C Credit
Extension   means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof.        L/C Issuer   means either Bank of America or Wachovia Bank, N.A., each in its capacity as issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, or any successor or additional issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder.
       L/C Obligations   means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of
Credit  plus  the aggregate of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings. For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance
with  Section 1.10 . For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such
Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be  outstanding  in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.        Lender  
has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes a Lender in its capacity as an L/C Issuer, as Tranche 1 Lender, as Tranche 2 Lender and (in the case of Bank of America or Scotiabank) as Swing
Line Lender.        Lending Office   means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such
Lender s Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Company, the Canadian Facility Agent (in the case of any Tranche 2 Lender) and the Administrative Agent.        Letter of Credit   means any standby letter of credit issued hereunder that is a Permitted Credit and shall include the Existing Letters
of Credit. Letters of Credit may be issued in U.S. Dollars, in Canadian Dollars or in an Alternative Currency.        Letter of Credit
Application   means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by any L/C Issuer.        Letter of Credit Expiration Date   means the day that is seven days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).         
   20   

Lien   means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement,
encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title
retention agreement, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).        Loan   means an extension of credit by a Lender to a Borrower under  Article II  in the form of a Tranche 1 Loan, a Canadian Prime Rate Loan, a Bankers  Acceptance (or BA Equivalent Advance in lieu thereof) or a
Swing Line Loan.        Loan Documents   means this Agreement, each Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement, each
Bankers  Acceptance, each Note, each Overdraft Facility Agreement, each Issuer Document, the Agent/BAS Fee Letter, the Issuer Fee Letters and the Guaranties.        Loan Parties   means, collectively, the Company, each Designated Borrower, and each Subsidiary Guarantor.        Mandatory Cost   means, with respect to any period, the percentage rate per annum determined in accordance with  Schedule 1.01 .        Material Adverse Effect   means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business,
properties, liabilities (actual or contingent), condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Company or the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of the Loan Parties, taken as a whole,
to perform their obligations under the Loan Documents; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against any Loan Party of any Loan Document to which it is a party.        Material Subsidiary   means, at any time during any fiscal year of the Company, a Subsidiary of the Company that: (i) has revenues
which constitute five percent (5%) or more of the Company s total revenue; or (ii) contributes at least five percent (5%) to the Company s Consolidated EBITDA; or (iii) has assets the net book value of which constitutes
five percent (5%) or more of the Company s net book value of total assets, in each case, based upon the Company s most recent annual or quarterly financial statements delivered to the Administrative Agent under
 Section 6.01 .        Maturity Date   means December 15, 2010.        Moody s   means Moody s Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.        Multiemployer Plan   means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Company or
any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.        Net Tangible Assets   means, as of any date of determination, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of all (a) cash-on-hand and cash equivalents,         
   21   

(b) short-term marketable securities not subject to any Lien (other than nonconsensual Permitted Liens) or any other
restrictions, (c) accounts receivable, (d) inventory (valued on a book-value basis) and (e) net property, equipment and improvements, in each case as of the end of the most recently ended fiscal year.        Non-Acceptance Lender   means (a) a Tranche 2 Lender which is not permitted by law or customary market practices to stamp, for
purposes of subsequent sale, or accept, a Bankers  Acceptance or (b) a Tranche 2 Lender who is deemed to be a  Non-Acceptance Lender  in accordance with  Section 2.05(n) .        Note   means a Tranche 1 Note or a Canadian Prime Rate Note.        Obligations   means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Loan Party arising under any Loan
Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan or Letter of Credit, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees
that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed
claims in such proceeding.        OCC   means the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.        Other Taxes   means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies
arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.        Organization Documents   means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws
(or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement (or equivalent
or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of
formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization
and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.        Outstanding Amount   means
(i) with respect to Tranche 1 Loans on any date, the U.S. Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any Borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Tranche 1 Loans occurring
on such date; (ii) with respect to Canadian Base Rate Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any Borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Canadian Base Rate Loans occurring on such
date; (iii) with respect to Canadian Prime Rate Loans on any date, the U.S. Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding         
   22   

principal amount thereof after giving effect to any Borrowings, Conversions, prepayments or repayments of such Canadian
Prime Rate Loans occurring on such date; (iv) with respect to Bankers  Acceptances on any date, the U.S. Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate amount payable to the holder thereof on its maturity after giving effect to any
Drawdowns, Conversions, Rollovers, prepayments or repayments of such Bankers  Acceptances occurring on such date; (v) with respect to Canadian Swing Line Loans in Canadian Dollars on any date, the U.S. Dollar Equivalent amount of the
aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Canadian Swing Line Loans occurring on such date; (vi) with respect to Canadian Swing Line Loans in U.S. Dollars on any
date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Canadian Swing Line Loans occurring on such date; (vii) with respect to U.S. Swing Line Loans on any date, the
aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any Borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such U.S. Swing Line Loans occurring on such date; and (viii) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the
U.S. Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations
as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements of outstanding unpaid drawings under any Letters of Credit or any reductions in the maximum amount available for drawing under Letters of Credit taking effect on such date. For purposes of
this definition, the portion of the L/C Obligations in respect of the undrawn stated amount of any Escalating Credits shall be deemed to be the maximum aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Escalating Credits (after giving effect to all
increases).        Overnight Rate   means, for any day, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in U.S. Dollars, the
greater of (i) the Federal Funds Rate and (ii) an overnight rate determined by the Administrative Agent, the applicable L/C Issuer, or either Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank
compensation, (b) with respect to any amount denominated in Canadian Dollars, the rate of interest per annum at which overnight deposits in Canadian Dollars, in an amount approximately equal to the amount with respect to which such rate is
being determined, would be offered for such day by Scotiabank in the Canadian interbank market to major banks in such interbank market, and (c) with respect to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the rate of interest per annum at
which overnight deposits in the applicable Alternative Currency, in an amount approximately equal to the amount with respect to which such rate is being determined, would be offered for such day by a branch or Affiliate of Bank of America in the
applicable offshore interbank market for such currency to major banks in such interbank market.        Participant   has the
meaning specified in  Section 10.06(d) .        Participating Member State   means each state so described in any EMU
Legislation.        PBGC   means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.        Pension Plan   means any  employee pension benefit plan  (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a
Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the         
   23   

Company or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or
other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.        Performance Credit   means a Letter of Credit used directly or indirectly to cover a default in the performance of any non-financial or commercial obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary under specific contracts, and
any Letter of Credit issued in favor of a bank or other surety who in connection therewith issues a guarantee or similar undertaking, performance bond, surety bond or other similar instrument that covers a default of any such performance
obligations, that is classified as a performance standby Letter of Credit by the FRB and by the OCC.        Permitted
Acquisition   means any Acquisition that conforms to the following requirements: (a) the assets, Person, division or line of business to be acquired is in a similar or complementary or ancillary or related line of business as the
Company, or a reasonable extension thereof, (b) all transactions related to such Acquisition shall be consummated in accordance in all material respects with applicable Law, (c) at the time of the first public announcement of an offer
relating thereto, such Acquisition has been approved by the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the acquiree, (d) the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the acquiree has not at any time notified the Company that
it opposes such action or, if it had done so, such opposition has been withdrawn, (e) immediately after giving effect to such Acquisition: (i) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would result therefrom, (ii) the
Company shall have demonstrated to the reasonable satisfaction of the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders that the Company shall be in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in  Section 7.12  on a  pro forma 
basis as of the last day of the fiscal quarter most recently ended, and (iii) all actions required to be taken with respect to any such acquired or newly formed Subsidiary under  Section 6.13  shall have been or will be taken in
accordance therewith.        Permitted Credit   means a Letter of Credit that is a Financial Credit or a Performance Credit and
shall not include any  direct pay  Letter of Credit or any Letter of Credit which contains any provisions providing for automatic reinstatement of the stated amount after any drawing thereunder.        Permitted Receivables   means accounts receivable (including notes, chattel paper, accounts, instruments and general intangibles
consisting of rights to payment) generated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (each, an  originator ) in the ordinary course of business, together with any guarantees, insurance, letters of credit, collateral, service contracts and
other agreements associated with any account receivable, the interest of the originator in the inventory and goods, including returned or repossessed inventory or goods, if any, the sale, financing or lease of which gave rise to an account
receivable, the interest of the Securitization Subsidiary in the agreement with the originator pursuant to which such Securitization Subsidiary purchased such accounts receivable, and other ancillary rights of the originator arising in connection
with the transaction giving rise to such accounts receivable and all business records relating thereto.        Permitted
Securitization   means (a) transfers constituting sales under GAAP, in respect of which a customary true-sale opinion has been given by independent counsel, to a Securitization Subsidiary of Permitted Receivables by the applicable
originator; and (b) if         
   24   

applicable, the incurrence by the Securitization Subsidiary of Attributable Indebtedness to a conduit entity or other
receivables credit provider secured by a Lien on any or all of the assets of such Securitization Subsidiary.        Person  
means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.        Plan   means any  employee benefit plan  (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Company or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to
Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.        Platform   has the meaning specified in
 Section 6.02 .        Power of Attorney   means a power of attorney provided by a Borrower to a Tranche 2 Lender with
respect to Bankers  Acceptances in accordance with and pursuant to  Section 2.05(e) .        Pro Rata Share  
means (a) with respect to each Tranche 1 Lender at any time, a fraction (expressed as a percentage, carried out to the ninth decimal place), the numerator of which is the amount of the Tranche 1 Commitment of such Tranche 1 Lender at such time
and the denominator of which is the amount of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments at such time;  provided  that if the commitment of each Tranche 1 Lender to make Tranche 1 Loans, the commitment of the U.S. Swing Line Lender to make U.S. Swing
Line Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuers to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to  Section 8.02 , then the Pro Rata Share of each Tranche 1 Lender shall be determined based on the Pro Rata Share of such
Tranche 1 Lender immediately prior to such termination and after giving effect to any subsequent assignments made pursuant to the terms hereof; and (b), with respect to each Tranche 2 Lender at any time, a fraction (expressed as a percentage,
carried out to the ninth decimal place), the numerator of which is the amount of the Tranche 2 Commitment of such Tranche 2 Lender at such time and the denominator of which is the amount of the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments at such time;
 provided  that if the commitment of each Tranche 2 Lender to make Tranche 2 Loans and accept or discount Bankers  Acceptances and the commitment of the Canadian Swing Line Lender to make Canadian Swing Line Loans have been terminated
pursuant to  Section 8.02 , then the Pro Rata Share of each Tranche 2 Lender shall be determined based on the Pro Rata Share of such Tranche 2 Lender immediately prior to such termination and after giving effect to any subsequent
assignments made pursuant to the terms hereof. The initial Pro Rata Share of each Tranche 1 Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Tranche 1 Lender on  Schedule 2.01  or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Tranche 1
Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable; and the initial Pro Rata Share of each Tranche 2 Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Tranche 2 Lender on  Schedule 2.02  or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Tranche
2 Lender becomes a party hereto.        Register   has the meaning set forth in  Section 10.06(c) .        Related Parties   means, with respect to any Person, such Person s Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees,
agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person s Affiliates.         
   25   

Reportable Event   means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA,
other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.        Request for Credit Extension   means (a) with
respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice, (b) with respect to an L/C Credit Extension, a Letter of Credit Application, and (c) with respect to a U.S. Swing Line Loan, a U.S. Swing Line
Loan Notice.        Required Lenders   means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate
Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and, in the case of Tranche 2 Lenders, to accept or discount Bankers  Acceptances, and the obligation of the L/C Issuers to make L/C Credit Extensions, have been terminated pursuant
to  Section 8.02 , Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Tranche 1 Lender s risk participation and funded participation in L/C Obligations and U.S. Swing Line Loans
being deemed  held  by such Tranche 1 Lender for purposes of this definition, and the aggregate amount of each Tranche 2 Lender s risk participation and funded participation in Canadian Swing Line Loans being deemed  held 
by such Tranche 2 Lender for purposes of this definition);  provided  that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of
Required Lenders.        Required Tranche 1 Lenders   means, as of any date of determination, Tranche 1 Lenders having more than
50% of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments or, if the commitment of each Tranche 1 Lender to make Tranche 1 Loans, the commitment of the U.S. Swing Line Lender to make U.S. Swing Line Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuers to make L/C Credit
Extensions have been terminated pursuant to  Section 8.02 , Tranche 1 Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Tranche 1 Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Tranche 1 Lender s risk participation and
funded participation in L/C Obligations and U.S. Swing Line Loans being deemed  held  by such Tranche 1 Lender for purposes of this definition);  provided  that the Tranche 1 Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Tranche 1
Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Tranche 1 Lenders.        Required Tranche 2 Lenders   means, as of any date of determination, Tranche 2 Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments or, if the commitment of each Tranche 2 Lender to make Tranche 2 Loans and
accept or discount Bankers  Acceptances and the commitment of the Canadian Swing Line Lender to make Canadian Swing Line Loans have been terminated pursuant to  Section 8.02 , Tranche 2 Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50%
of the Total Tranche 2 Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Tranche 2 Lender s risk participation and funded participation in Canadian Swing Line Loans being deemed  held  by such Tranche 2 Lender for purposes of this
definition);  provided  that the Tranche 2 Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Tranche 2 Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Tranche 2 Lenders.
       Responsible Officer   means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, senior vice president:
finance and administration, treasurer or assistant treasurer of a         
   26   

Loan Party. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be
conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
       Restricted Payment   means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with
respect to any capital stock or other equity interest of the Company or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption,
retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other equity interest or of any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such capital stock or other equity interest.        Revaluation Date   means (a) with respect to any Tranche 1 Loan, each of the following: (i) each date of a Borrowing of a
Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of a continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency pursuant to  Section 2.01 , and (iii) such additional dates as the
Administrative Agent shall determine or the Required Tranche 1 Lenders shall require; (b) with respect to any Tranche 2 Loan denominated in Canadian Dollars, (i) each date of a Borrowing of such a Tranche 2 Loan, (ii) each Drawdown
Date, (iii) each Rollover Date, (iv) each Conversion Date, and (v) such other dates as the Administrative Agent or the Canadian Facility Agent shall determine or the Required Tranche 2 Lenders shall require; (c) with respect to
any Canadian Swing Line Loan denominated in Canadian Dollars, (i) each date of such a Canadian Swing Line Loan, and (ii) such other dates as the Administrative Agent or the Canadian Facility Agent shall determine or the Required Tranche 2
Lenders shall require; and (d) with respect to any Letter of Credit, each of the following: (i) each date of issuance of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency or Canadian Dollars, (ii) each date of an amendment of
any such Letter of Credit having the effect of increasing the amount thereof (solely with respect to the increased amount), (iii) each date of any payment by the applicable L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative
Currency or Canadian Dollars, (iv) in the case of the Existing Letters of Credit, December 15, 2005, and (v) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer shall determine or the Required Lenders shall
require.        Rollover   means with respect to Bankers  Acceptances, the issuance of new Bankers  Acceptances or the
making of new BA Equivalent Advances (subject to the provisions hereof) in respect of all or any portion of Bankers  Acceptances (or BA Equivalent Advances made in lieu thereof) maturing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, all
in accordance with  Section 2.05 .        Rollover Date   means the date of commencement of a new Interest Period
applicable to a Bankers  Acceptance and which shall be a Business Day.        Rollover Notice   means a notice of Rollover
of Bankers  Acceptances pursuant to  Section 2.05 , which shall be substantially in the form of  Exhibit A-5 .        S P   means Standard   Poor s Ratings Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.         
   27   

Same Day Funds   means (a) with respect to disbursements and payments in U.S.
Dollars or Canadian Dollars, immediately available funds, and (b) with respect to disbursements and payments in an Alternative Currency, same day or other funds as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer, as
the case may be, to be customary in the place of disbursement or payment for the settlement of international banking transactions in the relevant Alternative Currency.        Schedule I Bank   means a Canadian chartered bank listed on Schedule I to the Bank Act (Canada).        Schedule II Bank   means a Canadian chartered bank listed on Schedule II to the Bank Act (Canada).        Schedule III Bank   means an authorized foreign bank listed on Schedule III to the Bank Act (Canada).        Schedule II to Schedule III Assignment   means an assignment by a Lender that is a Schedule II Bank to an Affiliate of such Lender that is a Schedule III Bank.        Scotiabank   means The Bank of Nova Scotia.        SEC   means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.        Securitization Subsidiary   means a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company created solely for purposes of effectuating a Permitted
Securitization, the activities and assets of which are limited solely to such purpose and assets, and the Organization Documents of which contain customary bankruptcy   remote provisions.        Shareholders  Equity   means, as of any date of determination, consolidated shareholders  equity of the Company and its
Subsidiaries as of that date determined in accordance with GAAP.        Special Notice Currency   means at any time an
Alternative Currency, other than the currency of a country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development at such time located in North America or Europe.        Spot Rate   (a) for Canadian Dollars in connection with a determination by the Canadian Facility Agent, the Administrative Agent or
the applicable L/C Issuer means the rate quoted by the Canadian Facility Agent, the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer as the spot rate for the purchase by the Canadian Facility Agent, the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C
Issuer of such currency with another currency through its principal foreign exchange trading office at approximately 8:00 a.m. (Toronto time) on the date two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made, and
(b) for any other currency in connection with a determination by the Administrative Agent or any L/C Issuer means the rate quoted by the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer, as applicable, as the spot rate for the purchase by the
Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer of such currency with another currency through its principal foreign exchange trading office at approximately 8:00 a.m.         
   28   

on the date two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made;  provided
 that the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer may obtain such spot rate from another financial institution designated by the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer if it does not have as of the date of determination a
spot buying rate for any such currency; and  provided   further  that the applicable L/C Issuer may use such spot rate quoted on the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made in the case of any Letter of Credit denominated
in an Alternative Currency or Canadian Dollars.        Sterling   and       mean the lawful currency of the
United Kingdom.        Subsidiary   of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or
other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the
happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references
herein to a  Subsidiary  or to  Subsidiaries  shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company.        Subsidiary Guarantors   mean, collectively, each direct and indirect Material Subsidiary, other than a Foreign Subsidiary or a Securitization Subsidiary, whether now existing or hereafter acquired or organized, executing
and delivering the Subsidiary Guaranty as of the Closing Date, or acceding thereto thereafter as provided in  Section 6.13 .        Subsidiary Guaranty   means the Subsidiary Guaranty made by the Subsidiary Guarantors in favor of the Agents and the Lenders, substantially in the form of  Exhibit G-2 .        Swap Contract   means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate
transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions,
interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar
transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any
kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master
Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a   Master Agreement  ), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.        Swap Termination Value   means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally
enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and
(b) for         
   29   

any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such
Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).        Swing Line   means the Canadian Swing Line or the U.S. Swing Line.        Swing Line Borrowing   means a Canadian Swing Line Borrowing or a U.S. Swing Line Borrowing.        Swing Line Lender   means the Canadian Swing Line Lender or the U.S. Swing Line Lender.        Swing Line Loan   means a Canadian Swing Line Loan or a U.S. Swing Line Loan.        Synthetic Lease Obligation   means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax
retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the
indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).        TARGET Day   means any day on which the
Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) payment system (or, if such payment system ceases to be operative, such other payment system (if any) determined by the Administrative Agent to be a suitable
replacement) is open for the settlement of payments in Euro.        Taxes   means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts,
duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.        Threshold Amount   means U.S.$25,000,000.        Total Outstandings   means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans and all L/C Obligations.        Total Tranche 1 Outstandings   means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Tranche 1 Loans, all U.S. Swing Line Loans and all L/C Obligations.        Total Tranche 2 Outstandings   means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Tranche 2 Loans and all Canadian Swing Line Loans.        Tranche 1 Borrowing   means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Tranche 1 Loans of the same Type, in the same currency and, in the
case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Tranche 1 Lenders pursuant to  Section 2.01 .        Tranche 1 Cash Collateral   has the meaning specified in  Section 2.03(g) .         
   30   

Tranche 1 Commitment   means, as to each Tranche 1 Lender, its obligation to
(a) make Tranche 1 Loans to the Borrowers pursuant to  Section 2.01 , (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, and (c) purchase participations in U.S. Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time
outstanding not to exceed the U.S. Dollar amount set forth opposite such Tranche 1 Lender s name on  Schedule 2.01  or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Tranche 1 Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as
such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.        Tranche 1 Lender   means a Lender with a
Tranche 1 Commitment, holding Tranche 1 Loans or holding participations in any L/C Obligations or U.S. Swing Line Loans and, as the context requires, includes a Tranche 1 Lender in its capacity as an L/C Issuer and (in the case of Bank of America)
as U.S. Swing Line Lender.        Tranche 1 Loan   has the meaning specified in  Section 2.01 .        Tranche 1 Loan Notice   means a notice of (a) a Tranche 1 Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Tranche 1 Loans from one Type to the
other, or (c) a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, pursuant to  Section 2.01(b) , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of  Exhibit A-1 .        Tranche 1 Note   means a promissory note made by a Borrower in favor of a Tranche 1 Lender evidencing Tranche 1 Loans made by such
Tranche 1 Lender to such Borrower, substantially in the form of  Exhibit C-1 .        Tranche 2 Borrowing   means
(i) a Canadian Prime Rate Loan Borrowing; (ii) a Canadian Base Rate Loan Borrowing; and (iii) a Drawdown of simultaneous Bankers  Acceptances and, if applicable, BA Equivalent Advances from each of the Tranche 2 Lenders pursuant
to  Section 2.05 .        Tranche 2 Cash Collateral   has the meaning specified in  Section 2.05(p) .
       Tranche 2 Commitment   means, as to each Tranche 2 Lender, (a) its obligation to make Tranche 2 Loans to the
Borrowers pursuant to  Section 2.02  and (b) purchase participations in Canadian Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the U.S. Dollar amount set forth opposite such Tranche
2 Lender s name on  Schedule 2.02  or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Tranche 2 Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
       Tranche 2 Loan   means a Canadian Prime Rate Loan, a Canadian Base Rate Loan, a Bankers  Acceptance or a BA
Equivalent Advance.        Tranche 2 Loan Notice   means (a) a Canadian Prime Rate Loan Notice, (b) a Drawdown Notice,
(c) a Conversion Notice, or (d) a Rollover Notice.        Tranche 2 Lender   means a Lender with a Tranche 2
Commitment, holding Tranche 2 Loans or holding participations in any Canadian Swing Line Loans and, as the context requires, includes a Tranche 2 Lender in its capacity as an L/C Issuer and (in the case of Scotiabank) as Canadian Swing Line Lender.
        
   31   

Type   means (a), in the case of a Tranche 1 Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or
Eurocurrency Rate Loan and (b), in the case of a Tranche 2 Loan, its character as a Canadian Prime Rate Loan, Canadian Base Rate Loan, Bankers  Acceptance or BA Equivalent Advance.        Unfunded Pension Liability   means the excess of a Pension Plan s benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over
the current value of that Pension Plan s assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.        United States   and   U.S.   mean the United States of America.        Unreimbursed Amount   has the meaning set forth in  Section 2.03(c)(i) .        U.S. Dollar  ,   Dollar  ,   U.S.$   and   $   mean lawful money of the United States.
       U.S. Dollar Equivalent   means, at any time, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in U.S. Dollars, such
amount, (b) with respect to any amount denominated in Canadian Dollars, the equivalent amount thereof in U.S. Dollars as determined by the Canadian Facility Agent, the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer at such time on the basis
of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of U.S. Dollars with Canadian Dollars, and (c) with respect to any amount denominated in any Alternative Currency, the equivalent amount thereof in
U.S. Dollars as determined by the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of U.S. Dollars with
such Alternative Currency.        U.S. Swing Line   means the revolving credit facility made available by the U.S. Swing Line
Lender pursuant to  Section 2.04 .        U.S. Swing Line Borrowing   means a borrowing of a U.S. Swing Line Loan
pursuant to  Section 2.04 .        U.S. Swing Line Lender   means Bank of America in its capacity as provider of U.S.
Swing Line Loans, or any successor U.S. Swing Line lender hereunder.        U.S. Swing Line Loan   has the meaning specified in
 Section 2.04(a) .        U.S. Swing Line Loan Notice   means a notice of a U.S. Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to
 Section 2.04(b) , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of  Exhibit B .        U.S. Swing Line
Sublimit   means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) U.S.$15,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments. The U.S. Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments.         
   32   

1.02 Other Interpretive Provisions.  With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document,
unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:      (a) The meanings of defined terms are equally applicable to the singular
and plural forms of the defined terms.      (b) (i) The words   herein ,    hereto ,    hereof  
and   hereunder   and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document shall refer to such Loan Document as a whole and not to any particular provision thereof.      (ii) Article, Section, Exhibit and Schedule references are to the Loan Document in which such reference appears.      (iii) The term   including   is by way of example and not limitation.      (iv) The term   documents   includes any and all instruments, documents, agreements, certificates, notices, reports,
financial statements and other writings, however evidenced, whether in physical or electronic form.      (v) The word
  will   shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word   shall .       (vi)
The words   asset   and   property   shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract
rights.      (c) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word   from   means
  from and including ;  the words   to   and   until   each mean   to but excluding ;  and the word   through   means   to and including .       (d) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of
this Agreement or any other Loan Document.       1.03 Accounting Terms.       (a) All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial
ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in
preparing the Audited Financial Statements,  except  as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.      (b) If at any time any change in
GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Company or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Company shall negotiate in good
faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders);  provided   that , until so         
   33   

amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change
therein and (ii) the Company shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between
calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.       1.04 Rounding.  Any financial
ratios required to be maintained by the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is
expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).       1.05
References to Agreements and Laws.  Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (a) references to Organization Documents, agreements (including the Loan Documents) and other contractual instruments shall be deemed to include all subsequent
amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications thereto, but only to the extent that such amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications are not prohibited by any Loan Document; and
(b) references to any Law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting such Law.       1.06 Exchange Rates; Currency Equivalents.       (a) The Administrative Agent, the Canadian Facility Agent
or the applicable L/C Issuer, as applicable, shall determine the Spot Rates as of each Revaluation Date to be used for calculating U.S. Dollar Equivalent or Canadian Dollar Equivalent amounts of Credit Extensions and Outstanding Amounts
denominated in Alternative Currencies or Canadian Dollars. Such Spot Rates shall become effective as of such Revaluation Date and shall be the Spot Rates employed in converting any amounts between the applicable currencies until the next Revaluation
Date to occur. Except for purposes of financial statements delivered by Loan Parties hereunder or calculating financial covenants hereunder or except as otherwise provided herein, the applicable amount of any currency (other than U.S. Dollars or
Canadian Dollars) for purposes of the Loan Documents shall be such U.S. Dollar Equivalent or Canadian Dollar Equivalent amount as so determined by the Administrative Agent, the Canadian Facility Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer, as
applicable.      (b) Wherever in this Agreement in connection with a Tranche 2 Loan, a Canadian Swing Line Loan, a Committed Tranche 1
Borrowing, the conversion, continuation or prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the issuance, amendment or extension of a Letter of Credit, an amount, such as a required minimum or multiple amount, is expressed in U.S. Dollars, but such Committed
Tranche 1 Borrowing, Eurocurrency Rate Loan, Tranche 2 Loan, Canadian Swing Line Loan or Letter of Credit is denominated in an Alternative Currency or Canadian Dollars, such amount shall be the relevant Foreign Currency Equivalent or Canadian Dollar
Equivalent of such U.S. Dollar amount, as the case may be (rounded to the nearest unit of the applicable currency, with 0.5 of a unit being rounded upward), as determined by the Administrative Agent, the Canadian Facility Agent or the
applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be.         
   34   

1.07 Additional Alternative Currencies.       (a) The Company may from time to time request that Eurocurrency Rate Loans be made and/or Letters of Credit be issued in a currency other than those
specifically listed in the definition of  Alternative Currency   provided  that such requested currency is a lawful currency (other than U.S. Dollars) that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into U.S.
Dollars. In the case of any such request with respect to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Tranche 1 Lenders; and in the case of any such request with respect to
the issuance of Letters of Credit, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the applicable L/C Issuer.      (b) Any such request shall be made to the Administrative Agent not later than 9:00 a.m., 20 Business Days prior to the date of the desired Credit Extension (or such other time or date as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent and, in the
case of any such request pertaining to Letters of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer, in its or their sole discretion). In the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Tranche
1 Lender thereof; and in the case of any such request pertaining to Letters of Credit, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the applicable L/C Issuer thereof. Each Tranche 1 Lender (in the case of any such request pertaining to
Eurocurrency Rate Loans) or the applicable L/C Issuer (in the case of a request pertaining to Letters of Credit) shall notify the Administrative Agent, not later than 8:00 a.m., ten Business Days after receipt of such request whether it consents, in
its sole discretion, to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans or the issuance of Letters of Credit, as the case may be, in such requested currency.      (c) Any failure by a Tranche 1 Lender or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to respond to such request within the time period specified in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a refusal by such Tranche 1 Lender or such
L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to permit Eurocurrency Rate Loans to be made or Letters of Credit to be issued in such requested currency. If the Administrative Agent and all the Tranche 1 Lenders consent to making Eurocurrency Rate Loans in such
requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Company and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Tranche 1 Borrowings of Eurocurrency Rate Loans; and if
the Administrative Agent and the applicable L/C Issuer consent to the issuance of Letters of Credit in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Company and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be
an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Letter of Credit issuances. If the Administrative Agent shall fail to obtain consent to any request for an additional currency under this  Section 1.07 , the Administrative Agent shall
promptly so notify the Company. Any specified currency of an Existing Letter of Credit of any Issuer that is neither U.S. Dollars nor one of the Alternative Currencies specifically listed in the definition of  Alternative Currency  shall
be deemed an Alternative Currency hereunder with respect to such Existing Letter of Credit only.       1.08 Change of Currency.
      (a) Each obligation of the Borrowers to make a payment denominated in the national currency unit of any member state of the European
Union that adopts the Euro as its lawful         
   35   

currency after the date hereof shall be redenominated into Euro at the time of such adoption (in accordance with the EMU
Legislation). If, in relation to the currency of any such member state, the basis of accrual of interest expressed in this Agreement in respect of that currency shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the London interbank market for
the basis of accrual of interest in respect of the Euro, such expressed basis shall be replaced by such convention or practice with effect from the date on which such member state adopts the Euro as its lawful currency;  provided  that if any
Tranche 1 Borrowing in the currency of such member state is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such Tranche 1 Borrowing, at the end of the then current Interest Period.      (b) Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time
specify to be appropriate to reflect the adoption of the Euro by any member state of the European Union and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the Euro.      (c) Each provision of this Agreement also shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time
specify to be appropriate to reflect a change in currency of any other country and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the change in currency.       1.09 Times of Day.  Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Pacific time (daylight or standard, as applicable).       1.10 Letter of Credit Amounts.  Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the Dollar
Equivalent of the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time;  provided ,  however , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or
more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the Dollar Equivalent of the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not
such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.       ARTICLE II.        THE COMMITMENTS AND CREDIT EXTENSIONS        2.01 Tranche 1 Loans.    
  (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Tranche 1 Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a   Tranche 1
Loan  ) to the Company, and to any other Borrower designated to receive Tranche 1 Loans hereunder, in U.S. Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Tranche 1 Lender s Tranche 1 Commitment;  provided ,  however , that after giving effect to any Tranche 1 Borrowing, (i) the Total Tranche 1 Outstandings
shall not exceed the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Tranche 1 Loans of any Tranche 1 Lender,  plus  such Tranche 1 Lender s Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C
Obligations,  plus  such Tranche 1 Lender s Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount         
   36   

of all U.S. Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Tranche 1 Lender s Tranche 1 Commitment; and  provided 
 further  that (i) the availability of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments at any time for the making of any Tranche 1 Loans and the issuance of Letters of Credit shall be reduced by the amount of the Alternative Currency Reserve (if any),
and (ii) in determining the availability of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments hereunder with respect to any Escalating Credits issued or outstanding hereunder, the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments will be deemed to be utilized in respect of
such Escalating Credits in the aggregate amount equal to the maximum aggregate amount available to be drawn under all such Escalating Credits (after giving effect to all increases). Within the limits of each Tranche 1 Lender s Tranche 1
Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrowers may borrow under this  Section 2.01 , prepay under  Section 2.06 , and reborrow under this  Section 2.01 . Tranche 1 Loans may be Base Rate
Loans or Eurocurrency Rate Loans, as further provided herein.      (b) Each Tranche 1 Borrowing, each conversion of Tranche 1 Loans from one
Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be made upon the Company s irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent
not later than 9:00 a.m. (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in U.S. Dollars or of any conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated
in U.S. Dollars to Base Rate Tranche 1 Loans, (ii) four Business Days (or five Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of any Borrowing or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in
Alternative Currencies, and (iii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Tranche 1 Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Company pursuant to this  Section 2.01(b)  must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the
Administrative Agent of a written Tranche 1 Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of
U.S.$1,000,000 or a whole multiple thereof. Except as provided in  Sections 2.03(c)  and  2.04(c) , each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Tranche 1 Loans shall be in a principal amount of U.S.$500,000 or a whole multiple of
U.S.$100,000 in excess thereof. Each Tranche 1 Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Company is requesting a Tranche 1 Borrowing, a conversion of Tranche 1 Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation
of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Tranche 1 Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued,
(iv) the Type of Tranche 1 Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Tranche 1 Loans are to be converted, (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto, (vi) the currency of the Tranche 1 Loans to be
borrowed, and (vii) if applicable, the Designated Borrower. If the Company fails to specify a currency in a Tranche 1 Loan Notice requesting a Borrowing, then the Tranche 1 Loans so requested shall be made in U.S. Dollars. If the Company fails
to specify a Type of Tranche 1 Loan in a Tranche 1 Loan Notice or if the Company fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Tranche 1 Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans;
 provided ,  however , that in the case of a failure to timely request a continuation of Tranche 1 Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, such Loans shall be continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans in their original currency with an
Interest Period of one month. Any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurocurrency Rate Loans. If the         
   37   

Company requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in any such Tranche 1 Loan
Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month. No Tranche 1 Loan may be converted into or continued as a Tranche 1 Loan denominated in a different currency, but instead must be
prepaid in the original currency of such Tranche 1 Loan and reborrowed in the other currency.      (c) Following receipt of a Tranche 1 Loan
Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Tranche 1 Lender of the amount (and currency) of its Pro Rata Share of the applicable Tranche 1 Loans and, if applicable, the account of the Administrative Agent to which each Tranche 1
Lender s Pro Rata Share is to be credited; and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Company, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Tranche 1 Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate
Loans or continuation of Tranche 1 Loans denominated in a currency other than U.S. Dollars, in each case as described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Tranche 1 Borrowing, each Tranche 1 Lender shall make the amount of its Tranche 1
Loan available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agent s Office for the applicable currency not later than 10:00 a.m., in the case of any Tranche 1 Loan denominated in U.S. Dollars, and not later than the
Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of any Tranche 1 Loan in an Alternative Currency, in each case on the Business Day specified in the applicable Tranche 1 Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions
set forth in  Section 4.02  (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension,  Section 4.01 ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Company or the other applicable Borrower in like
funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of such Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with
instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Company;  provided ,  however , that if, on the date the Tranche 1 Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing denominated in U.S. Dollars is given by
the Company, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing shall be applied,  first , to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings, and  second , to the applicable Borrower as provided above.      (d) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurocurrency Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such
Eurocurrency Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether in U.S. Dollars or any Alternative Currency) without the consent of the Required Tranche 1
Lenders, and the Required Tranche 1 Lenders may demand that any or all of the then outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency be prepaid, or redenominated into U.S. Dollars in the amount of the U.S. Dollar
Equivalent thereof, on the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto.      (e) The Administrative Agent shall promptly
notify the Company and the Tranche 1 Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurocurrency Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent
shall notify the Company and the Tranche 1 Lenders of any change in Bank of America s prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.         
   38   

(f) After giving effect to all Tranche 1 Borrowings, all conversions of Tranche 1 Loans from one Type to
the other, and all continuations of Tranche 1 Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than fifteen Interest Periods in effect with respect to Tranche 1 Loans.       2.02 Canadian Prime Rate Loans; Canadian Swing Line Loans.       (a) Subject to the terms and conditions
set forth herein, each Tranche 2 Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a   Canadian Prime Rate Loan  ) to the Company, and to any other Borrower designated to receive Tranche 2 Loans hereunder, in Canadian Dollars
from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Tranche 2 Lender s Tranche 2 Commitment;  provided ,  however , that after giving
effect to any Canadian Prime Rate Loan Borrowing, (i) the Total Tranche 2 Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Tranche 2 Loans of any Tranche 2 Lender,
 plus  such Tranche 2 Lender s Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all Canadian Swing Line Loans, shall not exceed such Tranche 2 Lender s Tranche 2 Commitment. Within the limits of each Tranche 2 Lender s Tranche 2
Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrowers may borrow under this  Section 2.02 , prepay under  Section 2.06 , and reborrow under this  Section 2.02 .      (b) Each Canadian Prime Rate Loan Borrowing under this  Section 2.02  and each Conversion under  Section 2.05  shall be made upon the
Company s irrevocable notice to the Canadian Facility Agent. Each such notice must be received by the Canadian Facility Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. one Business Day prior to the requested date of any such Canadian Prime Rate Loan Borrowing
or Conversion. Each such notice by the Company pursuant to this  Section 2.02(b)  must be in the form of a written Canadian Prime Rate Loan Notice or Conversion Notice delivered to the Canadian Facility Agent, appropriately completed and
signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company. Each Canadian Prime Rate Loan Borrowing under this  Section 2.02  and each Conversion under  Section 2.05  shall consist of Canadian Prime Rate Loans in minimum principal amounts of
Cdn.$100,000 or whole multiples thereof. Each such Canadian Prime Rate Loan Notice and each such Conversion shall specify (i) the requested date of the Borrowing or Conversion (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) the principal amount of
Canadian Prime Rate Loans to be borrowed or to be included in the Conversion, and (iii) if applicable, the Designated Borrower. Upon receipt of such notice, the Canadian Facility Agent shall confirm the aggregate outstanding principal amount of
all Canadian Swing Line Loans at such time with the Canadian Swing Line Lender.      (c) Following receipt of a Canadian Prime Rate Loan Notice
under this  Section 2.02  and/or a Conversion Notice under  Section 2.05 , the Canadian Facility Agent shall promptly notify each Tranche 2 Lender of the amount of its Pro Rata Share of the applicable Canadian Prime Rate Loans
and, if applicable, the account of the Canadian Facility Agent to which each Tranche 2 Lender s Pro Rata Share is to be credited. In the case of a Canadian Prime Rate Loan Borrowing, each Tranche 2 Lender shall make the amount of its Tranche 2
Loan available to the Canadian Facility Agent in Same Day Funds at the Canadian Facility Agent s Office not later than 9:00 a.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Canadian Prime Rate Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the
applicable conditions set forth in  Section 4.02  (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension,  Section 4.01 ), the Canadian Facility Agent shall make         
   39   

all funds so received available to the Company or the other applicable Borrower in like funds as received by the Canadian
Facility Agent either by (i) crediting the account of such Borrower on the books of Scotiabank with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably
acceptable to) the Canadian Facility Agent by the Company.      (d) At any time that Canadian Prime Rate Loans are outstanding, the Canadian
Facility Agent shall notify the Company and the Tranche 2 Lenders of any change in Scotiabank s prime rate used in determining the Canadian Prime Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.      (e) On the last Business Day of each month, and on such additional dates as the Administrative Agent shall require, the Canadian Facility Agent shall
provide to the Administrative Agent such information regarding the outstanding Canadian Prime Rate Loans and Canadian Swing Line Loans as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative
Agent (and in such standard electronic format as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably specify), for purposes of the Administrative Agent s ongoing tracking and reporting of outstanding Tranche 2 Loans and Canadian Swing Line Loans.
     (f) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Canadian Swing Line Lender agrees to make loans in U.S. Dollars or Canadian
Dollars (each such loan, a   Canadian Swing Line Loan  ) to any Canadian Swing Line Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount
of the Canadian Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Canadian Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of Tranche 2 Loans of the Tranche 2 Lender acting as Canadian Swing Line Lender, may
exceed the amount of such Tranche 2 Lender s Tranche 2 Commitment;  provided ,  however , that after giving effect to any Canadian Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Tranche 2 Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Tranche 2
Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Tranche 2 Loans of any Tranche 2 Lender,  plus  such Tranche 2 Lender s Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all Canadian Swing Line Loans, shall not exceed such
Tranche 2 Lender s Tranche 2 Commitment (the   Canadian Usage Limit  ), and  provided ,  further , that the applicable Canadian Swing Line Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Canadian Swing Line Loan to refinance
any outstanding Canadian Swing Line Loan. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the applicable Canadian Swing Line Borrower may borrow under this  Section 2.02 , prepay under
 Section 2.06 , and reborrow under this  Section 2.02 . Each Canadian Swing Line Loan denominated in U.S. Dollars shall bear interest at the Canadian Base Rate, and each Canadian Swing Line Loan denominated in Canadian Dollars
shall bear interest at the Canadian Prime Rate. The Canadian Facility Agent shall provide the Canadian Swing Line Lender with on-going notice of the Outstanding Amount of Tranche 2 Loans hereunder. Immediately upon the making of a Canadian Swing
Line Loan, each Tranche 2 Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Canadian Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Canadian Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of
such Tranche 2 Lender s Pro Rata Share  times  the amount of such Canadian Swing Line Loan.         
   40   

(g) The Canadian Facility Agent, the Canadian Swing Line Lender and any Canadian Swing Line Borrower
agree to authorize the Canadian Swing Line Lender to initiate Canadian Swing Line Borrowings hereunder on behalf of such Canadian Swing Line Borrower. Accordingly, the Canadian Swing Line Lender at any time may initiate, in accordance with this
Agreement, on behalf of the applicable Canadian Swing Line Borrower (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Canadian Swing Line Lender to so initiate on its behalf), a Canadian Swing Line Borrowing hereunder. Accordingly, upon presentation to the
Canadian Swing Line Lender of any check or other item drawn by a Canadian Swing Line Borrower in U.S. Dollars or Canadian Dollars on any of its current accounts at a branch of the Canadian Swing Line Lender, which, when charged against the
applicable account, creates or increases an overdraft in that account, the Canadian Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to pay the check or other item provided that, after doing so, the Canadian Usage Limit shall not be exceeded, and any such
overdraft shall be deemed to be a  Canadian Swing Line Loan  hereunder in the applicable currency.      (h) (i) The Canadian Facility
Agent may request (with a copy to the applicable Canadian Swing Line Borrower), if it has received notice from the Canadian Swing Line Lender that a Canadian Swing Line Loan has not been repaid by the applicable Canadian Swing Line Borrower and that
an Event of Default exists, that each Tranche 2 Lender make a Canadian Prime Rate Loan or a Canadian Base Rate Loan, as applicable, in an amount equal to such Tranche 2 Lender s Pro Rata Share of the amount of Canadian Swing Line Loans then
outstanding. Such request shall be made in writing by the Canadian Facility Agent to each of the Tranche 2 Lenders, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified herein for the principal amount of Canadian Prime Rate Loans. Each Tranche 2
Lender shall make an amount equal to its Pro Rata Share of the amount specified in such notice available to the Canadian Facility Agent in Same Day Funds for the account of the Canadian Swing Line Lender at the Canadian Facility Agent s Office
for the applicable currency not later than 9:00 a.m. on the day specified in such notice, whereupon, subject to  Section 2.02(h)(ii) , each Tranche 2 Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Canadian Prime Rate
Loan if made in Canadian Dollars, or a Canadian Base Rate Loan, if made in U.S. Dollars, to the applicable Canadian Swing Line Borrower in such amount. The Canadian Facility Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Canadian Swing Line Lender.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this clause (i), the Canadian Swing Line Lender shall not utilize any Canadian Swing Line Loans after it has received a Cessation Notice (as defined below), unless the Canadian Facility Agent, upon the
instructions of the Required Tranche 2 Lenders, subsequently notifies the Canadian Swing Line Lender that the Event of Default for which the Cessation Notice was issued is no longer continuing and that the Canadian Swing Line Lender may resume
making Canadian Swing Line Loans. For purposes hereof,   Cessation Notice   means a notice given by the Canadian Facility Agent to the Canadian Swing Line Lender, upon the instruction of the Required Tranche 2 Lenders, in the event
that an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and directing the Canadian Swing Line Lender not to make further Canadian Swing Line Loans from and after the date thereof or as otherwise set forth therein.      (ii) If for any reason any Canadian Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Tranche 2 Borrowing in accordance with  Section 2.02(h)(i) ,
the request for Canadian Prime Rate Loans or Canadian Base Rate Loans submitted by the Canadian Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Canadian Swing Line Lender that each         
   41   

of the Tranche 2 Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Canadian Swing Line Loan in the applicable currency
and each Tranche 2 Lender s payment to the Canadian Facility Agent for the account of the Canadian Swing Line Lender pursuant to  Section 2.02(h)(i)  shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.      (iii) If any Tranche 2 Lender fails to make available to the Canadian Facility Agent for the account of the Canadian Swing Line Lender any amount
required to be paid by such Tranche 2 Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this  Section 2.02(h)  by the time specified in  Section 2.02(h)(i) , the Canadian Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such
Tranche 2 Lender (acting through the Canadian Facility Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Canadian Swing Line
Lender at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. A certificate of the Canadian Swing Line Lender submitted to any Tranche 2 Lender (through the Canadian Facility Agent) with respect to any amounts owing
under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.      (iv) Each Tranche 2 Lender s obligation to make Tranche 2
Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Canadian Swing Line Loans pursuant to this  Section 2.02(h)  shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any set-off,
counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Tranche 2 Lender may have against the Canadian Swing Line Lender, the applicable Canadian Swing Line Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or
continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing. No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the applicable Canadian Swing
Line Borrower to repay Canadian Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.      (i) (i) At any time after any Tranche 2
Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Canadian Swing Line Loan, if the Canadian Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Canadian Swing Line Loan, the Canadian Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Tranche 2
Lender its Pro Rata Share of such payment (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Tranche 2 Lender s risk participation was funded) in the same currency and the same funds as
those received by the Canadian Swing Line Lender.      (ii) If any payment received by the Canadian Swing Line Lender in respect of principal
or interest on any Canadian Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Canadian Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in  Section 10.05  (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Canadian Swing
Line Lender in its discretion), each Tranche 2 Lender shall pay to the Canadian Swing Line Lender its Pro Rata Share thereof on demand of the Canadian Facility Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is
returned, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate. The Canadian Facility Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Canadian Swing Line Lender. The obligations of the Tranche 2 Lenders under this clause shall survive the
payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement         
   42   

(j) Until each Tranche 2 Lender funds its Canadian Prime Rate Loan, Canadian Base Rate Loan, or risk
participation pursuant to this  Section 2.02  to refinance such Tranche 2 Lender s Pro Rata Share of any Canadian Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Pro Rata Share shall be solely for the account of the Canadian Swing Line
Lender.      (k) The applicable Canadian Swing Line Borrower shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Canadian Swing
Line Loans directly to the Canadian Swing Line Lender in the currencies in which the relevant Canadian Swing Line Loans are denominated.       2.03 Letters of Credit.       (a)  The Letter of Credit Commitment .      (i) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) each L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Tranche
1 Lenders set forth in this  Section 2.03 , (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit denominated in U.S. Dollars, Canadian
Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies for the account of the Company or any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company, and to amend or extend Letters of Credit previously issued by it, in accordance with subsection (b) below, and
(2) to honor drafts under the Letters of Credit; and (B) the Tranche 1 Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Company or any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company and any drawings
thereunder;  provided  that after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, (x) the Total Tranche 1 Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments, (y) the aggregate Outstanding
Amount of the Tranche 1 Loans of any Tranche 1 Lender,  plus  such Tranche 1 Lender s Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations,  plus  such Tranche 1 Lender s Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all
U.S. Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Tranche 1 Lender s Tranche 1 Commitment, and (z) the Outstanding Amount of the FLOC Obligations shall not exceed the FLOC Sublimit; and  provided further  that (i) the availability of
the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments at any time for the making of any Tranche 1 Loans and the issuance of Letters of Credit shall be reduced by the amount of the Alternative Currency Reserve (if any), and (ii) in determining the availability of
the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments hereunder with respect to any Escalating Credits issued or outstanding hereunder, the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments will be deemed to be utilized in respect of such Escalating Credits in the aggregate amount
equal to the maximum aggregate amount available to be drawn under all such Escalating Credits (after giving effect to all increases). Each request by the Company for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a
representation by the Company that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in the provisos to the preceding sentence. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the
Company s ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Company may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and
reimbursed. All Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed to have been issued pursuant hereto, and         
   43   

from and after the Closing Date shall be subject to and governed by the terms and conditions hereof. The
Company certifies that  Schedule 1.01-2  accurately and completely sets forth the Existing Letters of Credit.      (ii) No
L/C Issuer shall be permitted to issue (in the case of clauses (B), (C), or (H)), and no L/C Issuer shall be under any obligation to issue (in the case of clauses (A) and (D) through (H)), any Letter of Credit, if:      (A) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain any L/C
Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to such L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over such L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or
request that such L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon such L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement
(for which such L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon such L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which such L/C Issuer
in good faith deems material to it;      (B) subject to Section 2.03(b)(iii), the expiry date of such requested Letter of
Credit would occur more than twelve months after the date of issuance or last extension, unless the Required Tranche 1 Lenders have approved such expiry date;      (C) the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Tranche 1
Lenders have approved such expiry date;      (D) the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more policies of
such L/C Issuer;      (E) except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and such L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is
in an initial stated amount less than U.S.$500,000;      (F) such L/C Issuer does not as of the issuance date of such requested
Letter of Credit issue Letters of Credit in the requested currency;      (G) a default of any Tranche 1 Lender s
obligations to fund under  Section 2.03(c)  exists or any Tranche 1 Lender is at such time a Defaulting Lender hereunder, unless such L/C Issuer has entered into satisfactory arrangements with the Company or such Tranche 1 Lender to
eliminate such L/C Issuer s risk with respect to such Tranche 1 Lender;      (H) such Letter of Credit is to be denominated
in a currency other than U.S. Dollars, Canadian Dollars or an Alternative Currency; or         
   44   

(I) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Obligations issued by such L/C Issuer would
exceed such L/C Issuer s Issuer Sublimit.      (iii) No L/C Issuer shall be under any obligation to amend any Letter of
Credit if (A) such L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such
Letter of Credit. No L/C Issuer shall amend any Letter of Credit if such L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof. Each L/C Issuer (other than Bank of America) shall be
required to provide prior notice to the Administrative Agent of any pending extension of an Auto-Extension Credit at least ten Business Days before the applicable Non-Extension Notice Date.      (iv) No L/C Issuer shall issue or amend any Letter of Credit if such L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Tranche 1 Lender, the
Administrative Agent or any Loan Party, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of such Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in  Section 4.02  shall not then be
satisfied.      (v) Each L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and
the documents associated therewith, and such L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Agents in  Article IX  with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by such L/C Issuer in connection with
Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term  Agent  as used in  Article IX  included such L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or
omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to such L/C Issuer.      (b)  Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of
Letters of Credit; Auto-Extension Letters of Credit .      (i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case
may be, upon the request of the Company delivered to the applicable L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company. Such
Letter of Credit Application must be received by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as the Administrative Agent and the applicable L/C Issuer may
agree in a particular instance in their sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be. In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall
specify in form and detail satisfactory to the applicable L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount and currency thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof;
(D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any
drawing thereunder; (G) whether such Letter of Credit will be an Escalating Credit, and if so, the maximum stated amount of         
   45   

such Letter Credit after giving effect to all increases; (H) the Person whose obligations are
supported thereby (in the case of a Letter of Credit supporting the obligations of a Subsidiary); and (I) such other matters as such L/C Issuer may require. In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such
Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the applicable L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature
of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as such L/C Issuer may require. Additionally, the Company shall furnish to the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such
requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as such L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may reasonably require.      (ii) Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the applicable L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of
such Letter of Credit Application from the Company and, if not, such L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof. Upon receipt by such L/C Issuer of confirmation from the Administrative Agent that the requested issuance or
amendment is permitted in accordance with the terms hereof, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, such L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the Company (or the applicable Subsidiary) or
enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with such L/C Issuer s usual and customary business practices. Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Tranche 1 Lender shall be deemed to,
and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from such L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Tranche 1 Lender s Pro Rata Share  times  the amount of such Letter
of Credit.      (iii) If the Company so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the applicable L/C Issuer may,
in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an   Auto-Extension Letter of Credit    provided  that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit
such L/C Issuer to prevent any such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the
  Non-Extension Notice Date  ) in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by any L/C Issuer, the Company shall not be required to make a specific request
to such L/C Issuer for any such extension. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Tranche 1 Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the applicable L/C Issuer to permit the extension of such Letter of
Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date;  provided ,  however , that no L/C Issuer shall permit any such extension if (A) such L/C Issuer has determined that it would have no obligation
at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of  Section 2.03(a)(ii)  or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in
writing) on or before the day that is five Business Days before the Non-Extension Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Tranche 1         

   46   

Lenders have elected not to permit such extension or (2) from the Administrative Agent, any Tranche
1 Lender or the Company that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in  Section 4.02  is not then satisfied.      (iv) Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the applicable L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Company and the
Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.      (c)  Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of
Participations .      (i) Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such
Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer shall notify the Company and the Administrative Agent thereof. In the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency or Canadian Dollars, the Company shall reimburse the applicable L/C
Issuer in the currency in which the drawing is made, unless (i) such L/C Issuer (at its option) shall specify in such notice that it will require payment in U.S. Dollars, or (ii) in the absence of any such request for payment in U.S.
Dollars of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency or Canadian Dollars, the Company shall notify such L/C Issuer promptly following receipt of the notice that the Company will make payment in U.S. Dollars. In the case of any such
payment in U.S. Dollars of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency or Canadian Dollars, the applicable L/C Issuer shall notify the Company of the U.S. Dollar Equivalent of the amount of the drawing promptly following the
determination thereof. Not later than 9:00 a.m. on the date of any payment by the applicable L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit to be reimbursed in U.S. Dollars, 12:00 noon (Toronto time) on the date of any payment by the applicable L/C Issuer
under a Letter of Credit to be reimbursed in Canadian Dollars, or the Applicable Time on the date of any payment by such L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit to be reimbursed in an Alternative Currency (each such date, an   Honor
Date  ), the Company shall reimburse such L/C Issuer directly an amount equal to the amount of such drawing and in the applicable currency. If the Company fails to so reimburse such L/C Issuer by such time on the Honor Date, such L/C Issuer
shall so notify the Administrative Agent (with a copy to the Company), and specify in such notice the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (expressed in U.S. Dollars in the amount of the U.S. Dollar Equivalent thereof in the case of a Letter of
Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency or Canadian Dollars) (the   Unreimbursed Amount  ). Immediately upon receipt of such notice from such L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Tranche 1 Lender of
the Honor Date, the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount, and the amount of such Tranche 1 Lender s Pro Rata Share thereof. In such event, the Company shall be deemed to have requested a Tranche 1 Borrowing of Base Rate Loans to be disbursed on
the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in  Section 2.01  for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized portion of the
Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments and the conditions set forth in  Section 4.02  (other than the delivery of a Tranche 1 Loan Notice). Any notice given by any L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this
 Section 2.03(c)(i)  may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing;  provided  that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice.         
   47   

(ii) Each Tranche 1 Lender shall upon any notice pursuant to
 Section 2.03(c)(i)  make funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer, in U.S. Dollars, at the Administrative Agent s Office for U.S. Dollar-denominated payments in an amount equal to
its Pro Rata Share of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 10:00 a.m. on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of  Section 2.03(c)(iii) , each Tranche 1 Lender that so
makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Tranche 1 Loan to the Company in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the applicable L/C Issuer in U.S. Dollars.      (iii) With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Tranche 1 Borrowing of Base Rate Loans because the
conditions set forth in  Section 4.02  cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the Company shall be deemed to have incurred from the applicable L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so
refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the Default Rate. In such event, each Tranche 1 Lender s payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of such L/C
Issuer pursuant to  Section 2.03(c)(ii)  shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Tranche 1 Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under
this  Section 2.03 .      (iv) Until each Tranche 1 Lender funds its Tranche 1 Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this
 Section 2.03(c)  to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Tranche 1 Lender s Pro Rata Share of such amount shall be solely for the account of such L/C Issuer.
     (v) Each Tranche 1 Lender s obligation to make Tranche 1 Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer
for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this  Section 2.03(c) , shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or
other right which such Tranche 1 Lender may have against such L/C Issuer, the Company, any Subsidiary or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or
condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing;  provided ,  however , that each Tranche 1 Lender s obligation to make Tranche 1 Loans pursuant to this  Section 2.03(c)  is subject to the conditions set forth in
 Section 4.02  (other than delivery by the Company of a Tranche 1 Loan Notice). No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Company to reimburse such L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment
made by such L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.      (vi) If any Tranche 1 Lender
fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by         
   48   

such Tranche 1 Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this  Section 2.03(c)  by the
time specified in  Section 2.03(c)(ii) , such L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Tranche 1 Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such
payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to such L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. A certificate of such L/C Issuer submitted to any Tranche 1
Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (vi) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.      (d)  Repayment of Participations .      (i) At any time after any L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter
of Credit and has received from any Tranche 1 Lender such Tranche 1 Lender s L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with  Section 2.03(c) , if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of such L/C Issuer any
payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the Company or otherwise, including proceeds of Tranche 1 Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will
distribute to such Tranche 1 Lender its Pro Rata Share thereof (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Tranche 1 Lender s L/C Advance was outstanding) in U.S. Dollars and in the
same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.      (ii) If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the
account of any L/C Issuer pursuant to  Section 2.03(c)(i)  is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in  Section 10.05  (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by such L/C Issuer in its
discretion), each Tranche 1 Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such L/C Issuer its Pro Rata Share thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount
is returned by such Tranche 1 Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Tranche 1 Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the
termination of this Agreement.      (e)  Obligations Absolute .   The obligation of the Company to reimburse each L/C Issuer for each
drawing under each Letter of Credit issued by or outstanding from such L/C Issuer and to repay each L/C Borrowing from such L/C Issuer shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:      (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of
Credit, this Agreement, or any other Loan Document;      (ii) the existence of any claim, counterclaim, set-off, defense or
other right that the Company or any Subsidiary may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any         
   49   

such transferee may be acting), such L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this
Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;      (iii) any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate
in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;      (iv) any payment by such L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by such L/C
Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee
of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law;      (v) any
adverse change in the relevant exchange rates or in the availability of the relevant Alternative Currency or Canadian Dollars to the Company or any Subsidiary or in the relevant currency markets generally; or      (vi) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that
might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Company or any Subsidiary.      The Company shall promptly examine a
copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with the Company s instructions or other irregularity, the Company will immediately notify the applicable L/C
Issuer. The Company shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against such L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.      (f)  Role of L/C Issuers .   Each Tranche 1 Lender and the Company agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, no L/C Issuer shall have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than
any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document. None of
the L/C Issuers, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of any L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Tranche 1 Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection
herewith at the request or with the approval of the Tranche 1 Lenders or the Required Tranche 1 Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution,
effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document. The Company hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any
Letter of Credit;  provided ,  however , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Company s pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other
        
   50   

agreement. None of the L/C Issuers, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any
correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuers, shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in clauses (i) through (v) of  Section 2.03(e) ;  provided ,  however , that anything in such
clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may have a claim against an L/C Issuer, and an L/C Issuer may be liable to the Company, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages
suffered by the Company which the Company proves were caused by an L/C Issuer s willful misconduct or gross negligence or such L/C Issuer s willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary
of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit or such L/C Issuer s payment under any Letter of Credit after presentation to it of a draft or other documents that do not conform in any
material respect with the terms and conditions of the Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, each L/C Issuer may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further
investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and such L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit
or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.      (g)  Tranche 1 Cash Collateral . Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, (i) if any L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or
(ii) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, (A) any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding or (B) any amount remains available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the
ISP, the Company shall immediately provide Tranche 1 Cash Collateral for the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations. The Administrative Agent may, at any time and from time to time after the initial deposit of Tranche 1 Cash Collateral,
request that additional Tranche 1 Cash Collateral be provided in order to protect against the results of exchange rate fluctuations.  Sections 2.06  and  8.02(c)  set forth certain additional requirements to deliver Tranche 1 Cash
Collateral hereunder. For purposes of this  Section 2.03 ,  Section 2.06  and  Section 8.02(c) ,   Tranche 1 Cash Collateral   means cash or deposit account balances pledged and deposited with or
delivered to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuers and the Tranche 1 Lenders, as collateral for the L/C Obligations, pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the applicable
L/C Issuers (which documents are hereby consented to by the Tranche 1 Lenders). The Company hereby grants to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuers and the Tranche 1 Lenders, a security interest in all such cash, deposit
accounts and all balances therein and all proceeds of the foregoing. Tranche 1 Cash Collateral pursuant to this  Section 2.03(g)  shall be maintained in blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America. If after payment of
the L/C Obligations for which such funds are held and application by the Administrative Agent of such Tranche 1 Cash Collateral to satisfy all Obligations of the Borrowers hereunder to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Tranche 1
Lenders with respect to which Tranche 1 Cash Collateral is being held, any excess remains, such excess shall be promptly paid by the Administrative Agent to the Company so long as no Default then exists.      (h)  Applicability of ISP .   Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Company when a Letter of Credit is issued
(including any such agreement applicable to an Existing Letter of Credit), the rules of the ISP shall apply to each Letter of Credit.         
   51   

(i)  Letter of Credit Fees . The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of
each Tranche 1 Lender in accordance with its Pro Rata Share, in U.S. Dollars, a Letter of Credit fee for each Letter of Credit (i) in the case of any Financial Credits, equal to the Applicable Tranche 1 Rate for Financial Credits  times 
the U.S. Dollar Equivalent of the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letters of Credit (whether or not such maximum amount is then in effect under such Letters of Credit), and (ii) in the case of any Performance Credits, equal
to the Applicable Tranche 1 Rate for Performance Credits  times  the U.S. Dollar Equivalent of the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letters of Credit. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any
Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with  Section 1.10 . Such letter of credit fees shall be computed on a quarterly basis in arrears. Such letter of credit fees shall be due and payable
on the first Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December in respect of the most recently-ended quarterly period (or portion thereof, in the case of the first payment), commencing with the first such date to occur after the
issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. If there is any change in the Applicable Tranche 1 Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall
be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Tranche 1 Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Tranche 1 Rate was in effect.      (j)  Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuers .   The Company shall pay directly to each L/C Issuer for its own account, in U.S. Dollars or in Canadian Dollars or such
Alternative Currency as shall be separately agreed, a fronting fee with respect to each Letter of Credit in the amount specified in the applicable Issuer Fee Letter, payable on the U.S. Dollar Equivalent of the daily amount available to be
drawn under such Letter of Credit. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with  Section 1.10 . Such fronting fee
shall be computed on a quarterly basis in arrears. Such fronting fee shall be due and payable on the tenth Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December in respect of the most recently-ended quarterly period (or portion
thereof, in the case of the first payment), commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. In addition, the Company shall pay directly to
each L/C Issuer for its own account the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of such L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect, in U.S. Dollars, or
such Alternative Currency or Canadian Dollars as shall be separately agreed. Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable on demand and are nonrefundable.      (k)  Conflict with Issuer Documents . In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Documents (other than any
Letter of Credit), the terms hereof shall control.      (l)  Letters of Credit Issued for Subsidiaries . Notwithstanding that a Letter of
Credit of an L/C Issuer issued or outstanding hereunder is in support of any obligations of, or is for the         
   52   

account of, a Subsidiary, the Company shall be obligated to reimburse such L/C Issuer hereunder for any and all drawings
under such Letter of Credit. To the extent Letters of Credit are being issued for the account of Subsidiaries, at the time of each such Credit Extension, such Letters of Credit do and will inure to the benefit of the Company, and the Company s
business derives and will derive substantial benefits from the businesses of such Subsidiaries.      (m)  Additional Issuers .
(i) The Company may from time to time, upon not less than 15 Business Days  notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), designate a
Tranche 1 Lender hereunder as an additional L/C Issuer (upon obtaining such Tranche 1 Lender s prior consent thereto) or replace a previously designated L/C Issuer by designating another Tranche 1 Lender as L/C Issuer ( provided  that
there are no outstanding Letters of Credit issued by, or L/C Obligations owing to, the L/C Issuer to be replaced);  provided  that at no time shall there be more than four L/C Issuers hereunder. Any such designation shall be subject to the
approval of the Administrative Agent (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld). The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Company and the Tranche 1 Lenders of any designation and approval of an additional L/C Issuer, and of the amount
of any Issuer Sublimit of such L/C Issuer. Upon any such approval of a L/C Issuer by the Administrative Agent and delivery by such L/C Issuer to the Administrative Agent of such contact and other information regarding such L/C Issuer as the
Administrative Agent shall reasonably request, such Tranche 1 Lender shall be a L/C Issuer for all purposes of this Agreement, and references to the L/C Issuers shall mean and include such Tranche 1 Lender in its capacity as L/C Issuer.   
  (ii) Any such additional L/C Issuer, and any existing L/C Issuer (other than Bank of America), shall be entitled to specify from time to time any
U.S. Dollar limit on the stated amount of Letters of Credit permitted to be outstanding from such Issuer at any time (an   Issuer Sublimit  ).      (iii) If any L/C Issuer shall issue any Letter of Credit, or amend any Letter of Credit (if the effect thereof is to increase the stated amount of such Letter of Credit), without obtaining prior consent from the
Administrative Agent (as provided in  Section 2.03(a)(ii) ), or if any L/C Issuer shall permit the extension of an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit without giving timely prior notice to the Administrative Agent or when such extension is not
permitted hereunder (as provided in  Section 2.03(a)(iii) ), such Letter of Credit (in the case of any such amendment, to the extent of the increased stated amount thereof) (A) shall for all purposes be deemed to have been issued by
such L/C Issuer solely for its own account and risk, and (B) shall not be considered a Letter of Credit outstanding under this Agreement, and no Tranche 1 Lender shall be deemed to have any participation therein, effective as of the date of
such issuance, amendment or extension, as the case may be, unless the Required Tranche 1 Lenders expressly consent thereto;  provided ,  however , that to be considered a Letter of Credit outstanding under this Agreement, the consent of
all Tranche 1 Lenders shall be required if any such issuance, amendment or extension is not then permitted hereunder by reason of the provisions of clauses (C) or (H) of  Section 2.03(a)(ii) .      (n)  Reconciliation of Outstanding Letters of Credit . On the last Business Day of each month, each of the Company and the L/C Issuers shall provide
to the Administrative Agent such information regarding the outstanding Letters of Credit as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (and in such         
   53   

standard electronic format as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably specify), for purposes of the Administrative
Agent s ongoing tracking and reporting of outstanding Letters of Credit. The Administrative Agent shall maintain a record of all outstanding Letters of Credit based upon information provided by the Company and the Issuers pursuant to this
 Section 2.03(n) , and such record of the Administrative Agent shall, absent manifest error, be deemed a correct and conclusive record of all Letters of Credit outstanding from time to time hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and
to the extent the Administrative Agent determines that there are one or more discrepancies between information provided by the Company and any L/C Issuer hereunder, the Administrative Agent will notify the Company and such L/C Issuer thereof shall
endeavor to reconcile any such discrepancy.      (o)  Notice to Tranche 1 Lenders . The Administrative Agent shall provide notice to the
Tranche 1 Lenders not less frequently than monthly as to the Letters of Credit outstanding hereunder.       2.04 U.S. Swing Line Loans.
      (a)  The U.S. Swing Line . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the U.S. Swing Line Lender agrees to make loans
in U.S. Dollars (each such loan, a   U.S. Swing Line Loan  ) to the Company from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the U.S. Swing
Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such U.S. Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of Tranche 1 Loans and L/C Obligations of the Tranche 1 Lender acting as U.S. Swing Line Lender, may exceed
the amount of such Tranche 1 Lender s Tranche 1 Commitment;  provided ,  however , that after giving effect to any U.S. Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Tranche 1 Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments,
and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Tranche 1 Loans of any Tranche 1 Lender,  plus  such Tranche 1 Lender s Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations,  plus  such Tranche 1 Lender s Pro
Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all U.S. Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Tranche 1 Lender s Tranche 1 Commitment, and  provided ,  further , that (i) the Company shall not use the proceeds of any U.S. Swing Line
Loan to refinance any outstanding U.S. Swing Line Loan; (ii) the availability of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments at any time for the making of any Tranche 1 Loans and the issuance of Letters of Credit shall be reduced by the amount of the
Alternative Currency Reserve (if any); and (iii) in determining the availability of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments hereunder with respect to any Escalating Credits issued or outstanding hereunder, the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments will
be deemed to be utilized in respect of such Escalating Credits in the aggregate amount equal to the maximum aggregate amount available to be drawn under all such Escalating Credits (after giving effect to all increases). Within the foregoing limits,
and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Company may borrow under this  Section 2.04 , prepay under  Section 2.06 , and reborrow under this  Section 2.04 . Each U.S. Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate
Loan. Immediately upon the making of a U.S. Swing Line Loan, each Tranche 1 Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the U.S. Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such U.S. Swing Line Loan
in an amount equal to the product of such Tranche 1 Lender s Pro Rata Share  times  the amount of such U.S. Swing Line Loan.         
   54   

(b)  Borrowing Procedures . Each U.S. Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the Company s
irrevocable notice to the U.S. Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the U.S. Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. on the requested
borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of U.S.$500,000, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day. Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by
delivery to the U.S. Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written U.S. Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company. Promptly after receipt by the U.S. Swing Line Lender of any
telephonic U.S. Swing Line Loan Notice, the U.S. Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such U.S. Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the U.S. Swing
Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof. Unless the U.S. Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any
Tranche 1 Lender) prior to 11:00 a.m. on the date of the proposed U.S. Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the U.S. Swing Line Lender not to make such U.S. Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the proviso to the first
sentence of  Section 2.04(a) , or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in  Article IV  is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the U.S. Swing Line Lender will, not later
than 12:00 noon on the borrowing date specified in such U.S. Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its U.S. Swing Line Loan available to the Company at its office by crediting the account of the Company on the books of the U.S. Swing Line
Lender in Same Day Funds.      (c)  Refinancing of U.S. Swing Line Loans .      (i) The U.S. Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the Company (which hereby irrevocably authorizes
the U.S. Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Tranche 1 Lender make a Base Rate Tranche 1 Loan in an amount equal to such Tranche 1 Lender s Pro Rata Share of the amount of U.S. Swing Line Loans then outstanding. Such
request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Tranche 1 Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of  Section 2.01 , without regard to the minimum and multiples specified
therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments and the conditions set forth in  Section 4.02 . The U.S. Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Company with a
copy of the applicable Tranche 1 Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent. Each Tranche 1 Lender shall make an amount equal to its Pro Rata Share of the amount specified in such Tranche 1 Loan Notice available to
the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds for the account of the U.S. Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent s Office for U.S. Dollar-denominated payments not later than 10:00 a.m. on the day specified in such Tranche 1 Loan
Notice, whereupon, subject to  Section 2.04(c)(ii) , each Tranche 1 Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Tranche 1 Loan to the Company in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds
so received to the U.S. Swing Line Lender.      (ii) If for any reason any U.S. Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Tranche 1
Borrowing in accordance with  Section 2.04(c)(i) , the request for Base Rate Tranche 1         
   55   

Loans submitted by the U.S. Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the U.S. Swing Line
Lender that each of the Tranche 1 Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant U.S. Swing Line Loan and each Tranche 1 Lender s payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the U.S. Swing Line Lender pursuant to
 Section 2.04(c)(i)  shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.      (iii) If any Tranche 1 Lender fails to make
available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the U.S. Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Tranche 1 Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this  Section 2.04(c)  by the time specified in
 Section 2.04(c)(i) , the U.S. Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Tranche 1 Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is
required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the U.S. Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. A certificate of the U.S. Swing Line Lender submitted to any
Tranche 1 Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.      (iv) Each Tranche 1 Lender s obligation to make Tranche 1 Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in U.S. Swing Line Loans pursuant to this  Section 2.04(c)  shall be absolute and
unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Tranche 1 Lender may have against the U.S. Swing Line Lender, the Company or any other Person
for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing;  provided ,  however , that each Tranche 1 Lender s
obligation to make Tranche 1 Loans pursuant to this  Section 2.04(c)  is subject to the conditions set forth in  Section 4.02 . No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the
Company to repay U.S. Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.      (d)  Repayment of Participations .      (i) At any time after any Tranche 1 Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a U.S. Swing Line Loan, if the U.S. Swing Line Lender receives
any payment on account of such U.S. Swing Line Loan, the U.S. Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Tranche 1 Lender its Pro Rata Share of such payment (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time
during which such Tranche 1 Lender s risk participation was funded) in the same funds as those received by the U.S. Swing Line Lender.      (ii) If any payment received by the U.S. Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any U.S. Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the U.S. Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in
 Section 10.05  (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the U.S. Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Tranche 1 Lender shall pay to the U.S. Swing Line Lender its Pro Rata Share thereof on demand of the Administrative
Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate. The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the U.S. Swing Line Lender.
The obligations of the Tranche 1 Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement         
   56   

(e)  Interest for Account of U.S. Swing Line Lender . The U.S. Swing Line Lender shall be
responsible for invoicing the Company for interest on the U.S. Swing Line Loans. Until each Tranche 1 Lender funds its Base Rate Tranche 1 Loan or risk participation pursuant to this  Section 2.04  to refinance such Tranche 1 Lender s
Pro Rata Share of any U.S. Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Pro Rata Share shall be solely for the account of the U.S. Swing Line Lender.      (f)  Payments Directly to U.S. Swing Line Lender . The Company shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the U.S. Swing Line Loans directly to the U.S. Swing Line Lender.       2.05 Bankers  Acceptances.       (a)
 Bankers  Acceptances . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company may give the Canadian Facility Agent notice that Bankers  Acceptances will be required from each Tranche 2 Lender on any Business Day during the
Availability Period pursuant to a Drawdown, Rollover or Conversion, by the Company, or any other Borrower designated to receive Tranche 2 Loans hereunder, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Tranche 2
Lender s Tranche 2 Commitment;  provided ,  however , that after giving effect to any acceptance by a Tranche 2 Lender of a Bankers  Acceptance, (i) the Total Tranche 2 Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Tranche 2
Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Tranche 2 Loans of any Tranche 2 Lender,  plus  such Tranche 2 Lender s Pro Rata Share of the Outstanding Amount of all Canadian Swing Line Loans, shall not exceed such
Tranche 2 Lender s Tranche 2 Commitment.      (b)  Minimum Amounts; Notices . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein,
(i) each Drawdown of Bankers  Acceptances from a Tranche 2 Lender shall be in minimum aggregate amounts of Cdn.$1,000,000 at maturity or whole multiples of Cdn.$100,000 in excess thereof; and (ii) the Company may make a Drawdown,
Conversion or Rollover of Bankers  Acceptances for itself or a Designated Borrower by delivering a Drawdown Notice, Conversion Notice or Rollover Notice, as the case may be, to the Canadian Facility Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. three Business
Days prior to the proposed Drawdown Date, Conversion Date or Rollover Date, as the case may be, for the Drawdown of, Conversion into or Rollover of such Bankers  Acceptances. Upon receipt of such notice, the Canadian Facility Agent shall
confirm the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Canadian Swing Line Loans at such time with the Canadian Swing Line Lender.      (c)
 Fees . Upon the acceptance by a Tranche 2 Lender of a Bankers  Acceptance, the Company shall pay, or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay, to the Canadian Facility Agent for the account of such Tranche 2 Lender a fee in
Canadian Dollars equal to the Applicable Tranche 2 Rate for Bankers  Acceptances calculated on the principal amount at maturity of such Bankers  Acceptance and for the period of time from and including the date of acceptance to but
excluding the maturity date of such Bankers  Acceptance.         
   57   

(d)  Form and Execution of Bankers  Acceptances .      The following provisions shall apply to each Bankers  Acceptance hereunder:      (i) the face amount at maturity of each draft drawn by the applicable Borrower to be accepted as a Bankers  Acceptance shall be Cdn.$100,000 and
whole multiples thereof;      (ii) the term to maturity of each draft drawn by the applicable Borrower to be accepted as a Bankers 
Acceptance shall, subject to market availability as determined by the Tranche 2 Lenders, be one, two, three or six months (or such other longer or shorter term as agreed by the Tranche 2 Lenders), as selected by the Company in the relevant Drawdown,
Rollover or Conversion Notice, and each Bankers  Acceptance shall be payable and mature on the last day of the Interest Period selected by the Company for such Bankers  Acceptance;      (iii) each draft drawn by the applicable Borrower and presented for acceptance by a Tranche 2 Lender shall be drawn on the standard form of such Tranche
2 Lender in effect at the time;  provided ,  however , that the Canadian Facility Agent may require the Tranche 2 Lenders to use a generic form of Bankers  Acceptance, in a form reasonably satisfactory to each Tranche 2 Lender,
provided by the Canadian Facility Agent for such purpose in place of the Tranche 2 Lenders  own forms;      (iv) subject to clause (v),
Bankers  Acceptances shall be signed by Responsible Officers of the applicable Borrower or, in the alternative, the signatures of such Responsible Officers may be mechanically reproduced in facsimile thereon and Bankers  Acceptances
bearing such facsimile signatures shall be binding on the applicable Borrower as if they had been manually executed and delivered by such officers on behalf of the applicable Borrower; notwithstanding that any person whose manual or facsimile
signature appears on any Bankers  Acceptance may no longer be an authorized signatory for the applicable Borrower on the date of issuance of a Bankers  Acceptance, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes
as if such authority had remained in force at the time of such issuance and any such Bankers  Acceptance shall be binding on the applicable Borrower; and      (v) in lieu of signing Bankers  Acceptances in accordance with clause (iv) the applicable Borrower may provide a Power of Attorney to a Tranche 2 Lender; for so long as a Power of Attorney is in force with
respect to a given Tranche 2 Lender, such Tranche 2 Lender shall execute and deliver Bankers  Acceptances on behalf of the applicable Borrower in accordance with the provisions thereof, and (for the avoidance of doubt) all references herein to
drafts drawn by the applicable Borrower, Bankers  Acceptances executed by the applicable Borrower or similar expressions shall be deemed to include Bankers  Acceptances executed in accordance with a Power of Attorney, unless the context
otherwise requires.      (e)  Power of Attorney; Provision of Bankers  Acceptances to Tranche 2 Lenders .      (i) Unless revoked with respect to a given Tranche 2 Lender in accordance herewith, each Borrower requesting Bankers  Acceptances hereunder hereby
appoints each Tranche 2 Lender, acting by any authorized signatory of the relevant Tranche 2 Lender, the attorney of such Borrower:         
   58   

(A) to sign for and on behalf and in the name of such Borrower as drawer, drafts in such
Tranche 2 Lender s standard form which are depository bills as defined in the Depository Bills and Notes Act (Canada) (the   DBNA  ), payable to a  clearing house  (as defined in the DBNA) including The Canadian
Depository For Securities Limited or its nominee, CDS   Co. (the   clearing house        (B) for
drafts which are not depository bills, to sign for and on behalf and in the name of such Borrower as drawer and to endorse on its behalf, Bankers  Acceptances drawn on the Tranche 2 Lender payable to the order of the undersigned or payable to
the order of such Tranche 2 Lender;      (C) to fill in the amount, date and maturity date of such Bankers  Acceptances;
and      (D) to deposit and/or deliver such Bankers  Acceptances which have been accepted by such Tranche 2 Lender;
      provided  that such acts in each case are to be undertaken by the relevant Tranche 2 Lender strictly in accordance with instructions given to such
Tranche 2 Lender by the applicable Borrower as provided in this  Section 2.05 . For the avoidance of doubt, signatures of any authorized signatory of a Tranche 2 Lender may be mechanically reproduced in facsimile on Bankers 
Acceptances in accordance herewith and such facsimile signatures shall be binding and effective as if they had been manually executed by such authorized signatory of such Tranche 2 Lender.      (ii) Instructions from the applicable Borrower to a Tranche 2 Lender relating to the execution, completion, endorsement, deposit and/or delivery by such
Tranche 2 Lender on behalf of the applicable Borrower of Bankers  Acceptances which the applicable Borrower wishes to submit to such Tranche 2 Lender for acceptance by such Tranche 2 Lender shall be communicated by the applicable Borrower in
writing by the Company to the Canadian Facility Agent by delivery to the Canadian Facility Agent of Drawdown Notices, Conversion Notices and Rollover Notices, as the case may be, in accordance with this Agreement which, in turn, shall be
communicated by the Canadian Facility Agent, on behalf of the Company and the applicable Borrower, to such Tranche 2 Lender.      (iii) The
communication in writing by the Company, or on behalf of the Company by the Canadian Facility Agent, to a Tranche 2 Lender of the instructions set forth in the Drawdown Notices, Conversion Notices and Rollover Notices referred to above shall
constitute (A) the authorization and instruction of the Company and the applicable Borrower to such Tranche 2 Lender to sign for and on behalf and in the name of the applicable Borrower as drawer the requested Bankers  Acceptances and to
complete and/or endorse Bankers  Acceptances in accordance with such information as set out above and (B) the request of the applicable Borrower to such Tranche 2 Lender to accept such Bankers  Acceptances and deposit the same with
the clearing house or deliver the same, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with this Agreement and such instructions. The Company and each other applicable Borrower acknowledges that a Tranche 2 Lender shall not be obligated to accept
any such Bankers  Acceptances except in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.         
   59   

(iv) A Tranche 2 Lender shall be and it is hereby authorized to act on behalf of the applicable Borrowers
upon and in compliance with instructions communicated to such Tranche 2 Lender as provided herein, if such Tranche 2 Lender reasonably believes such instructions to be genuine. If a Tranche 2 Lender accepts Bankers  Acceptances pursuant to any
such instructions, such Tranche 2 Lender shall confirm particulars of such instructions and advise the Canadian Facility Agent that it has complied therewith by notice in writing addressed to the Canadian Facility Agent and served personally or sent
by facsimile in accordance with the provisions hereof. A Tranche 2 Lender s actions in compliance with such instructions, confirmed and advised to the Canadian Facility Agent by such notice, shall be conclusively deemed to have been in
accordance with the instructions of the Company and any applicable Borrower.      (v) This power of attorney may be revoked by the applicable
Borrower with respect to any particular Tranche 2 Lender at any time upon not less than five Business Days  prior written notice served upon the Tranche 2 Lender in question and the Canadian Facility Agent,  provided  that no such
revocation shall reduce, limit or otherwise affect the obligations of such Borrower in respect of any Bankers  Acceptance executed, completed, endorsed, deposited and/or delivered in accordance herewith prior to the time at which such
revocation becomes effective.      (vi) Unless the applicable Borrower has provided Powers of Attorney to the Tranche 2 Lenders, to facilitate
Drawdowns, Rollovers or Conversions of Bankers  Acceptances, the applicable Borrower shall, upon execution of this Agreement and thereafter from time to time as required by the Tranche 2 Lenders, provide to the Canadian Facility Agent for
delivery to each Tranche 2 Lender drafts drawn in blank by the applicable Borrower (pre-endorsed and otherwise in fully negotiable form, if applicable) in quantities sufficient for each Tranche 2 Lender to fulfill its obligations hereunder. Any such
pre-signed drafts which are delivered by the applicable Borrower to the Canadian Facility Agent or a Tranche 2 Lender shall be held in safekeeping by the Canadian Facility Agent or such Tranche 2 Lender, as the case may be, with the same degree of
care as if they were the Canadian Facility Agent s or such Tranche 2 Lender s property, and shall only be dealt with by the Tranche 2 Lenders and the Canadian Facility Agent in accordance herewith. No Tranche 2 Lender shall be responsible
or liable for its failure to make its share of any Drawdown, Rollover or Conversion of Bankers  Acceptances required hereunder if the cause of such failure is, in whole or in part, due to the failure of the applicable Borrower to provide such
pre-signed drafts to the Canadian Facility Agent (for delivery to such Tranche 2 Lender) on a timely basis.      (vii) By 9:00 a.m. on the
applicable Drawdown Date, Conversion Date or Rollover Date, the applicable Borrower shall (a) either deliver to each Tranche 2 Lender in Toronto, or, if previously delivered, be deemed to have authorized each Tranche 2 Lender to complete and
accept, or (b) where the applicable Borrower has previously executed and delivered a Power of Attorney to the Tranche 2 Lender, be deemed to have authorized each such Tranche 2 Lender to sign on behalf of the applicable Borrower, complete and
accept, drafts drawn by the applicable Borrower on such Tranche 2 Lender in a principal amount at maturity         
   60   

equal to such Tranche 2 Lender s share of the Bankers  Acceptances specified by the applicable Borrower in the
relevant Drawdown Notice, Conversion Notice or Rollover Notice, as the case may be, as notified to the Tranche 2 Lenders by the Canadian Facility Agent.      (f)  Mechanics of Issuance .      (i) Upon receipt by the Canadian Facility Agent of a Drawdown Notice,
Conversion Notice or Rollover Notice from the Company requesting the issuance of Bankers  Acceptances, the Canadian Facility Agent shall promptly notify the Tranche 2 Lenders thereof and advise each Tranche 2 Lender of the aggregate face amount
of Bankers  Acceptances to be accepted by such Tranche 2 Lender, the date of issue, the Interest Period for such Loan and, whether such Bankers  Acceptances are to be self-marketed by the applicable Borrower or purchased by such Tranche 2
Lender for its own account; the apportionment among the Tranche 2 Lenders of the face amounts of Bankers  Acceptances to be accepted by each Tranche 2 Lender shall be determined by the Canadian Facility Agent by reference and in proportion to
the respective Tranche 2 Commitments of each Tranche 2 Lender,  provided  that, when such apportionment cannot be evenly made, the Canadian Facility Agent shall round allocations among such Tranche 2 Lenders consistent with the Canadian
Facility Agent s normal money market practices;  provided   further  that, for the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall such rounding result in a Tranche 2 Lender having a Pro Rata Share of Tranche 2 Loans and participations in
Canadian Swing Line Loans in excess of its Tranche 2 Commitment.      (ii) Unless the applicable Borrower has elected pursuant to clause
(iii) to have each Tranche 2 Lender purchase for its own account the Bankers  Acceptances to be accepted by it in respect of any Drawdown, Rollover or Conversion, on each Drawdown Date, Rollover Date or Conversion Date involving the
issuance of Bankers  Acceptances:      (A) the applicable Borrower shall obtain quotations from prospective purchasers
regarding the sale of the Bankers  Acceptances and shall accept such offers in its sole discretion;      (B) by no later
than 8:00 a.m. on such date, the applicable Borrower shall provide the Canadian Facility Agent with details regarding the sale of the Bankers  Acceptances described in sub-clause (A) above, whereupon the Canadian Facility Agent shall
promptly notify the Tranche 2 Lenders of the identity of the purchasers of such Bankers  Acceptances, the amounts being purchased by such purchasers, the Discount Proceeds and the acceptance fees applicable to such issue of Bankers 
Acceptances (including each Tranche 2 Lender s share thereof);      (C) each Tranche 2 Lender shall complete and accept in
accordance with the Drawdown Notice, Conversion Notice or Rollover Notice delivered by the applicable Borrower and advised by the Canadian Facility Agent in connection with such issuance, its share of the Bankers  Acceptances to be issued on
such date; and         
   61   

(D) in the case of a Drawdown, each Tranche 2 Lender shall, on receipt of the Discount
Proceeds, remit the Discount Proceeds (net of the acceptance fee payable to such Tranche 2 Lender pursuant to  Section 2.05(c) ) to the Canadian Facility Agent for the account of the applicable Borrower; the Canadian Facility Agent shall
make such funds available to the applicable Borrower for same day value on such date.      (iii) The Company may, with respect to the issuance
of Bankers  Acceptances hereunder from time to time, elect in the Drawdown Notice, Conversion Notice or Rollover Notice, as the case may be, delivered in respect of such issuance to have the Tranche 2 Lenders purchase such Bankers 
Acceptances for their own account. On each such Drawdown Date, Rollover Date or Conversion Date involving the issuance of Bankers  Acceptances being so purchased by the Tranche 2 Lenders:      (A) before 8:00 a.m. on such date, the Canadian Facility Agent shall determine the CDOR Rate and shall obtain quotations from each Tranche
2 Lender that is a Schedule II Bank or Schedule III Bank of the Discount Rate then applicable to bankers  acceptances accepted by such Schedule II Bank or Schedule III Bank in respect of an issuance of bankers  acceptances in a comparable
amount and with comparable maturity to the Bankers  Acceptances proposed to be issued on such date;      (B) on or about
8:00 a.m. on such date, the Canadian Facility Agent shall determine the BA Discount Rate applicable to each Tranche 2 Lender and shall advise each Tranche 2 Lender of the BA Discount Rate applicable to it;      (C) each Tranche 2 Lender shall complete and accept, in accordance with the Drawdown Notice, Conversion Notice or Rollover Notice
delivered by the Company and advised by the Canadian Facility Agent in connection with such issuance, its share of the Bankers  Acceptances to be issued on such date and shall purchase such Bankers  Acceptances for its own account at a
purchase price which reflects the BA Discount Rate applicable to such issuance; and      (D) in the case of a Drawdown, each
Tranche 2 Lender shall, for same day value on the Drawdown Date, remit the Discount Proceeds or advance the BA Equivalent Advance, as the case may be, payable by such Tranche 2 Lender (net of the acceptance fee payable to such Tranche 2 Lender
pursuant to  Section 2.05(c) ) to the Canadian Facility Agent for the account of the applicable Borrower; the Canadian Facility Agent shall make such funds available to the applicable Borrower for same day value on such date.   
  (iv) Each Tranche 2 Lender may at any time and from time to time hold, sell, rediscount or otherwise dispose of any or all Bankers  Acceptances
accepted and purchased by it for its own account.         
   62   

(g)  Rollover, Conversion or Payment on Maturity .      (i) In anticipation of the maturity of Bankers  Acceptances, the Company shall, subject to and in accordance with the requirements hereof, do one or
a combination of the following with respect to the aggregate face amount at maturity of all such Bankers  Acceptances:      (A) (1) deliver to the Canadian Facility Agent a Rollover Notice that the applicable Borrower intends to draw and present for acceptance on the maturity date new Bankers  Acceptances in an aggregate face amount up to the aggregate
amount of the maturing Bankers  Acceptances and (2) on the maturity date pay to the Canadian Facility Agent for the account of the Tranche 2 Lenders an additional amount equal to the difference between the aggregate face amount of the
maturing Bankers  Acceptances and the Discount Proceeds of such new Bankers  Acceptances;      (B) (1) deliver to the
Canadian Facility Agent a Conversion Notice requesting a Conversion of the maturing Bankers  Acceptances to a Canadian Prime Rate Loan and (2) on the maturity date pay to the Canadian Facility Agent for the account of the Tranche 2 Lenders
an amount equal to the difference, if any, between the aggregate face amount of the maturing Bankers  Acceptances and the amount of the Canadian Prime Rate Loan into which Conversion is requested; or      (C) on the maturity date of the maturing Bankers  Acceptances, pay to the Canadian Facility Agent for the account of the Tranche 2
Lenders an amount equal to the aggregate face amount of such Bankers  Acceptances.      (ii) If the Company fails to so notify the
Canadian Facility Agent or make (or cause the applicable Borrower to make) such payments on maturity, the Canadian Facility Agent shall effect a Conversion into a Canadian Prime Rate Loans of the entire aggregate amount of such maturing
Bankers  Acceptances as if a Conversion Notice had been given by the Company to the Canadian Facility Agent to that effect.      (h)
 Restriction on Rollovers and Conversions . Subject to the other provisions hereof, Conversions and Rollovers of Bankers  Acceptances may only occur on the maturity date thereof.      (i)  Rollovers . In order to satisfy the continuing liability of a Borrower to a Tranche 2 Lender for the face amount of maturing Bankers 
Acceptances of such Borrower accepted by such Tranche 2 Lender, such Tranche 2 Lender shall receive and retain for its own account the Discount Proceeds of new Bankers  Acceptances issued on a Rollover, and the applicable Borrower shall on the
maturity date of the Bankers  Acceptances being rolled over pay to the Canadian Facility Agent for the account of the Tranche 2 Lenders an amount equal to the difference between the face amount of the maturing Bankers  Acceptances and the
Discount Proceeds from the new Bankers  Acceptances, together with the acceptance fees to which the Tranche 2 Lenders are entitled pursuant to  Section 2.05(c) .         
   63   

(j)  Conversions .      (i) Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the applicable Borrower may convert the whole or any part of any Type of Tranche 2 Loan into any other Type of permitted Tranche 2 Loan by giving the Canadian Facility
Agent a Conversion Notice in accordance herewith;  provided  that:      (A) Conversions of Bankers  Acceptances may
only be made on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto;      (B) the applicable Borrower may not convert a
portion only or the whole of an outstanding Tranche 2 Loan unless both the unconverted portion and converted portion of such Loan are equal to or exceed the minimum amounts required for Borrowings or Drawdowns of Loans of the same Type as that
portion (as set forth in  Section 2.02  or this  Section 2.05 ); and      (C) a Conversion shall not result
in an increase in the Outstanding Amount of a Tranche 2 Loan, as increases in the Outstanding Amount of a Tranche 2 Loan may only be effected by Borrowings or Drawdowns.      (ii) In respect of Conversions into Bankers  Acceptances, in order to satisfy the continuing liability of a Borrower to the Tranche 2 Lenders for the amount of the converted Loans of such Borrower, each Tranche 2
Lender shall receive and retain for its own account the Discount Proceeds of the Bankers  Acceptances issued upon such Conversion, and the applicable Borrower shall on the Conversion Date pay to the Canadian Facility Agent for the account of
the Tranche 2 Lenders an amount equal to the difference between the principal amount of the converted Loan and the aggregate Discount Proceeds from the Bankers  Acceptances issued on such Conversion, together with the acceptance fees to which
the Tranche 2 Lenders are entitled pursuant to  Section 2.05(c) .      (iii) In order to satisfy the continuing liability of a
Borrower to the Tranche 2 Lenders for an amount equal to the aggregate face amount of the maturing Bankers  Acceptances of such Borrower converted to a Canadian Prime Rate Loan, the Canadian Facility Agent shall record the obligation of the
applicable Borrower to the Tranche 2 Lenders as Canadian Prime Rate Loans.      (k)  Notice to Tranche 2 Lenders . Upon receipt of a
Drawdown Notice, Rollover Notice or Conversion Notice, the Canadian Facility Agent shall promptly notify the Tranche 2 Lenders of the requested Type of Tranche 2 Loan, the proposed Drawdown Date, Rollover Date or Conversion Date, each Tranche 2
Lender s Pro Rata Share of such Loan and, if applicable, the account of the Canadian Facility Agent to which each Tranche 2 Lender s Pro Rata Share is to be credited.      (l)  Irrevocability . A Drawdown Notice, Rollover Notice or Conversion Notice given by the Company hereunder shall be irrevocable and, subject to
any options the Tranche 1 Lenders may have hereunder in regard thereto and the Company and the applicable Borrower s rights hereunder in regard thereto, shall obligate the applicable Borrower to take the action contemplated on the date
specified therein.         
   64   

(m)  BA Equivalent Advances .      (i) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this  Section 2.05 , a Non-Acceptance Lender shall, in lieu of accepting Bankers 
Acceptances of a Borrower, make a BA Equivalent Advance to such Borrower. The amount of each such BA Equivalent Advance shall be equal to the Discount Proceeds which would be realized from a hypothetical sale of those Bankers  Acceptances
which, but for this Section, such Tranche 2 Lender would otherwise be required to accept as part of such a Drawdown, Conversion or Rollover of Bankers  Acceptances. To determine the amount of such Discount Proceeds, the hypothetical sale shall
be deemed to take place at the BA Discount Rate for such Loan. Any BA Equivalent Advance shall be made on the relevant Drawdown Date, Rollover Date or Conversion Date, as the case may be, and shall remain outstanding for the term of the relevant
Bankers  Acceptances. Concurrent with the making of a BA Equivalent Advance, a Non-Acceptance Lender shall be entitled to deduct therefrom an amount equal to the acceptance fee which, but for this  Section 2.05(m) , such Tranche 2
Lender would otherwise be entitled to receive as part of such Loan. Subject to  Section 2.05(g) , upon the maturity date for such Bankers  Acceptances created for a Borrower, such Borrower shall pay to each Non-Acceptance Lender the
amount of its BA Equivalent Advance plus interest calculated thereon at the applicable BA Discount Rate.      (ii) All references herein to
 Loans  and  Bankers  Acceptances  shall, unless otherwise expressly provided herein or unless the context otherwise requires, be deemed to include BA Equivalent Advances made by a Non-Acceptance Lender as part of a
Drawdown, Conversion or Rollover of Bankers  Acceptances.      (n)  Termination of Bankers  Acceptances . If at any time a
Tranche 2 Lender ceases to accept bankers  acceptances in the ordinary course of its business, such Tranche 2 Lender shall be deemed to be a  Non-Acceptance Lender  and shall make BA Equivalent Advances in lieu of accepting
Bankers  Acceptances under this Agreement.      (o)  Borrower Acknowledgments . In the event that any Borrower is marketing its own
Bankers  Acceptances in accordance with  Section 2.05(f) , such Borrower hereby agrees that it shall make its own arrangements for the marketing and sale of the Bankers  Acceptances to be issued hereunder and that the Tranche 2
Lenders shall have no obligation nor be responsible in that regard. Each such Borrower further acknowledges and agrees that the availability of purchasers for Bankers  Acceptances requested to be issued hereunder, as well as all risks relating
to the purchasers thereof, are its own risk.      (p)  Tranche 2 Cash Collateral .      (i) With respect to the prepayment of unmatured Bankers  Acceptances it is agreed that the Company or other applicable Borrower shall provide for the
funding in full of the unmatured Bankers  Acceptances to be prepaid by paying to and depositing with the Canadian Facility Agent Tranche 2 Cash Collateral for each such unmatured Bankers  Acceptances equal to the face amount payable at
maturity thereof.  Section 8.02(d)  sets forth certain additional requirements to deliver Tranche 2 Cash Collateral hereunder in respect of Bankers  Acceptances. Such Tranche 2 Cash Collateral shall be applied to satisfy the
obligations of the applicable Borrower for such Bankers  Acceptances as they mature, and the Canadian Facility Agent is         
   65   

hereby irrevocably directed by the Company and each applicable Borrower to apply any such Tranche 2 Cash Collateral to
such maturing Bankers  Acceptances. Any such Tranche 2 Cash Collateral created herein shall not be released to the Company or applicable Borrower without the consent of the Tranche 2 Lenders;  provided ,  however , that interest on
such deposited amounts shall be for the account of the Company or applicable Borrower and may be withdrawn by the Company or applicable Borrower so long as no Default exists. If, after maturity of the Bankers  Acceptances for which such Tranche
2 Cash Collateral is held and application by the Canadian Facility Agent of such Tranche 2 Cash Collateral to satisfy the obligations of the applicable Borrower(s) hereunder with respect to all Bankers  Acceptances prepaid prior to maturity,
any interest or other proceeds of such Tranche 2 Collateral remains, such interest or other proceeds shall be promptly paid and transferred by the Canadian Facility Agent to the Company or other applicable Borrower, so long as no Default exists.
     (ii) If the Canadian Facility Agent notifies the Company at any time that Total Tranche 2 Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate
Tranche 2 Commitments then in effect as a result of exchange rate fluctuations, then, within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, the applicable Borrowers shall prepay Canadian Prime Rate Loans and/or Canadian Swing Line Loans and/or the
Company or applicable Borrower(s) shall provide Tranche 2 Cash Collateral for the Tranche 2 Loans in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such Outstanding Amount as of such date of payment to an amount not to exceed 100% of the Aggregate Tranche
2 Commitments then in effect. The Canadian Facility Agent may, at any time and from time to time after the initial deposit of such Tranche 2 Cash Collateral, request that additional Tranche 2 Cash Collateral be provided in order to protect against
the results of further exchange rate fluctuations. If after repayment of the Tranche 2 Loans for which such funds are held and application by the Canadian Facility Agent of such Tranche 2 Cash Collateral to satisfy all Obligations of the Borrowers
hereunder to the Canadian Facility Agent and the Tranche 2 Lenders with respect to which Tranche 2 Cash Collateral is being held, any excess remains, such excess shall be promptly paid by the Canadian Facility Agent to the Company or other
applicable Borrower, so long as no Default then exists.      (iii) As used herein,   Tranche 2 Cash Collateral   means cash or
deposit account balances pledged and deposited with or delivered to the Canadian Facility Agent, for the benefit of the Tranche 2 Lenders, by the Company or other applicable Borrower as collateral for the Tranche 2 Loans and Canadian Swing Line
Loans, pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Canadian Facility Agent (which documents are hereby consented to by the Tranche 2 Lenders). The Company, or other applicable Borrower providing
such Tranche 2 Cash Collateral hereby grants to the Canadian Facility Agent, for the benefit of the Tranche 2 Lenders, a security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein and all proceeds of the foregoing. Tranche 2 Cash
Collateral pursuant to this  Section 2.05(p)  shall be maintained in blocked deposit accounts at the Canadian Facility Agent, bearing interest at rates prevailing at the time of deposit for the account of the Company or other applicable
Borrower.      (q)  Reports to Administrative Agent . On the last Business Day of each month, and on such additional dates as the
Administrative Agent shall require, the Canadian Facility Agent shall provide to the Administrative Agent such information regarding the outstanding Bankers Acceptances and BA Equivalent Advances (if any) as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably
        
   66   

request, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (and in such standard electronic format as the
Administrative Agent shall reasonably specify), for purposes of the Administrative Agent s ongoing tracking and reporting of outstanding Tranche 2 Loans and Canadian Swing Line Loans.       2.06 Prepayments; Termination or Reduction of Commitments.       (a) Each Borrower may, upon notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Tranche 1 Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty;  provided  that
(i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in U.S. Dollars, (B) four Business Days (or five, in
the case of prepayment of Tranche 1 Loans denominated in a Special Notice Currency, or prepayment of Tranche 1 Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency on a day other than the last day of the applicable Interest Period) prior to any date of
prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and (C) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Tranche 1 Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in U.S. Dollars shall be in a principal
amount of U.S.$1,000,000 or a whole multiple thereof; (iii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in Alternative Currencies shall be in a minimum principal amount of U.S.$1,000,000 or a whole multiple thereof; and (iv) any prepayment
of Base Rate Tranche 1 Loans shall be in a principal amount of U.S.$500,000 or a whole multiple of U.S.$100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the
date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Tranche 1 Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurocurrency Rate Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) thereof. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Tranche 1 Lender of its receipt
of each such notice, and of the amount of such Tranche 1 Lender s Pro Rata Share of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Company, the applicable Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice
shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest thereon, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to  Section 3.05  (any such
additional amounts payable in respect of an optional prepayment of Tranche 1 Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency on a day other than the last day of the applicable Interest Period for such Tranche 1 Loans shall be denominated in U.S.
Dollars). Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Tranche 1 Loans of the Tranche 1 Lenders in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Shares.      (b) Each Borrower may, upon notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent and the Canadian Facility Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Tranche 2 Loans in whole or in part without premium
or penalty;  provided  that (i) such notice must be received by the Canadian Facility Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. (A) two Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Bankers  Acceptances, and (B) one Business Day
prior to the date of prepayment of Canadian Prime Rate Loans or Canadian Base Rate Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Bankers  Acceptances shall be in the amount of Cdn.$1,000,000 or whole multiples of Cdn.$100,000 in excess thereof;
(iii) any prepayment of Canadian Prime Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of Cdn.$100,000 or a whole multiples in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding; and (iv) any
prepayment of Canadian Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of U.S.$100,000 or a whole multiples in excess thereof or,         
   67   

in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. A Bankers  Acceptance may only be
repaid on its maturity unless collateralized in accordance with  Section 2.05(p) . If a Banker s Acceptance is so collateralized, it shall be defeased for all purposes hereof, shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding for any
purpose hereof or to constitute usage of the Tranche 2 Commitments and the Borrowers and Guarantors shall have no further obligation with respect thereto (including payment thereof at maturity). Each such notice shall specify the date and
amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Tranche 2 Loans to be prepaid and, if Bankers  Acceptances are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) thereof. The Canadian Facility Agent will promptly notify each Tranche 2 Lender of its receipt of
each such notice, and of the amount of such Tranche 2 Lender s Pro Rata Share of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Company, the applicable Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall
be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Canadian Prime Rate Loan or Canadian Base Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest thereon. Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Tranche 2 Loans of the
Tranche 2 Lenders in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Shares.      (c) The Company may, upon notice to the U.S. Swing Line Lender
(with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay U.S. Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty;  provided  that (i) such notice must be received by the U.S. Swing Line
Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of U.S.$100,000. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such
prepayment. If such notice is given by the Company, the Company shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.      (d) The Canadian Swing Line Borrower may, upon notice to the Canadian Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Canadian Facility Agent), at any time or from
time to time, voluntarily prepay Canadian Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty;  provided  that (i) such notice must be received by the Canadian Swing Line Lender and the Canadian Facility Agent not later than
9:00 a.m. on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) (except as otherwise agreed by the Canadian Swing Line Lender and the Canadian Facility Agent) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of Cdn.$100,000 (in the case of Canadian
Prime Rate Loans) or U.S.$100,000 (in the case of Canadian Base Rate Loans). Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Canadian Swing Line Borrower, the Canadian Swing Line Borrower shall
make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.      (e) If the
Administrative Agent notifies the Company at any time that the Total Tranche 1 Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments then in effect by an amount greater than U.S.$250,000, then, within two Business Days after receipt of
such notice, the Borrowers shall prepay Tranche 1 Loans and/or U.S. Swing Line Loans and/or the Company shall provide Tranche 1 Cash Collateral for the L/C Obligations in an aggregate amount equal to such excess;  provided ,  however ,
that the Company shall not be required to provide Tranche 1 Cash Collateral for the L/C Obligations pursuant to this  Section 2.06(e)  unless after the prepayment in full of the Tranche 1 Loans and U.S. Swing Line Loans the Total Tranche 1
Outstandings exceed the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments then in effect.         
   68   

(f) The Company may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Tranche 1
Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments;  provided  that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. five Business Days prior to the date of
termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of U.S.$10,000,000 or any whole multiple of U.S.$1,000,000 in excess thereof, (iii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Tranche 1
Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Tranche 1 Outstandings plus the Alternative Currency Reserve (if any) would exceed the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments, and (iv) if, after giving
effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments, the FLOC Sublimit or the U.S. Swing Line Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments, such Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess.
The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Tranche 1 Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments. The amount of any such Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitment reduction shall not be applied to the
FLOC Sublimit unless otherwise specified by the Company. Any reduction of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments shall be applied to the Tranche 1 Commitment of each Lender according to its Pro Rata Share. All facility fees accrued until the effective
date of any termination of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.      (g) The Company
may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent and the Canadian Facility Agent, terminate the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments;  provided  that (i) any such notice
shall be received by the Canadian Facility Agent and the Administrative Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. five Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of
U.S.$1,000,000 or any whole multiple of U.S.$100,000 in excess thereof, (iii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total
Tranche 2 Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments; and (iv) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments, the Canadian Swing Line Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Tranche 2
Commitments, such Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess. The Canadian Facility Agent will promptly notify the Tranche 2 Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments. Any
reduction of the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments shall be applied to the Tranche 2 Commitment of each Lender according to its Pro Rata Share. All facility fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Tranche 2
Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.      (h) The Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments also shall be subject to
reduction in accordance with the provisions of  Section 2.16 .         
   69   

2.07 Repayment of Loans.       (a) Each Borrower shall repay to the Tranche 1 Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Tranche 1 Loans made to such Borrower
outstanding on such date.      (b) Each Borrower shall repay to the Tranche 2 Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of
Canadian Prime Rate Loans and Canadian Base Rate Loans made to such Borrower outstanding on such date.      (c) Each Borrower shall repay to
the Tranche 2 Lenders on the (i) maturity date for any Bankers  Acceptance, the aggregate amount of Bankers  Acceptances of the Tranche 2 Lenders in favor of such Borrower maturing on such date, subject to the provisions of
 Sections 2.05(i)  and  2.05(j) , and (ii) the Maturity Date, for each unmatured Bankers  Acceptance, an amount equal to the face amount payable at maturity thereof.      (d) The Company shall repay each Canadian Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the date seven days after the borrowing date therefor and
(ii) the Maturity Date.      (e) The Company shall repay each U.S. Swing Line Loan on the earliest to occur of (i) the date on which
the U.S. Swing Line Lender demands payment for such U.S. Swing Line Loan, (ii) the date 30 days after the borrowing date therefor and (iii) the Maturity Date.       2.08 Interest.       (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each
Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period  plus  the Applicable Tranche 1 Rate  plus  (in the
case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan of any Lender which is lent from a Lending Office in the United Kingdom or a Participating Member State, other than a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in U.S. Dollars made to any Borrower other than a Foreign
Designated Borrower) the Mandatory Cost; (ii) each Base Rate Tranche 1 Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate  plus  the Applicable
Tranche 1 Rate; (iii) each Canadian Prime Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Canadian Prime Rate  plus  the Applicable Tranche 2
Rate; (iv) each Canadian Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Canadian Base Rate  plus  the Applicable Tranche 2 Rate;
(v) each Canadian Swing Line Loan denominated in U.S. Dollars shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Canadian Base Rate  plus  the Applicable
Tranche 2 Rate; (vi) each Canadian Swing Line Loan denominated in Canadian Dollars shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Canadian Prime Rate
 plus  the Applicable Tranche 2 Rate; and (vii) each U.S. Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate  plus  the
Applicable Tranche 1 Rate.         
   70   

(b) If any amount payable by any Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to
any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable Laws. Furthermore, while any Event of Default exists, each Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Tranche 1 Loans, U.S. Swing Line Loans, Tranche 2 Loans and Canadian Swing Line Loans at a fluctuating
interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws. Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
     (c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as
may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.       2.09 Fees.  In addition to certain fees described in subsections (i) and (j) of  Section 2.03  and subsection (c) of
 Section 2.05 :      (a)  Facility Fee (Tranche 1) . The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each
Tranche 1 Lender in accordance with its Pro Rata Share, a facility fee in U.S. Dollars equal to the Applicable Tranche 1 Rate therefor  times  the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Tranche 1
Commitments have terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Tranche 1 Loans, U.S. Swing Line Loans and L/C Obligations), regardless of usage. The facility fee under this  Section 2.09(a)  shall accrue at all times during the Availability
Period (and thereafter so long as any Tranche 1 Loans, U.S. Swing Line Loans or L/C Obligations remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in  Article IV  is not met, and shall be due and payable
quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Maturity Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The facility fee
shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Tranche 1 Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Tranche 1 Rate separately for each period during
such quarter that such Applicable Tranche 1 Rate was in effect.      (b)  Facility Fee (Tranche 2) . The Company shall pay to the Canadian
Facility Agent for the account of each Tranche 2 Lender in accordance with its Pro Rata Share, a facility fee in U.S. Dollars equal to the Applicable Tranche 2 Rate therefor  times  the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments
(or, if the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments have terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Tranche 2 Loans and Canadian Swing Line Loans), regardless of usage. The facility fee under this  Section 2.09(b)  shall accrue at all times
during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Tranche 2 Loans or Canadian Swing Line Loans remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in  Article IV  is not met, and shall be due and
payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Maturity Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The facility
fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in         
   71   

the Applicable Tranche 2 Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the
Applicable Tranche 2 Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Tranche 2 Rate was in effect.      (c)  Other
Fees .   (i) The Company shall pay to the Arranger and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts, in U.S. Dollars, fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Agent/BAS Fee Letter and in the Issuer Fee Letter
with Bank of America.      (ii) The Company shall pay to the Lenders, in U.S. Dollars or Canadian Dollars, as applicable, such fees as shall
have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified.      (iii) The foregoing fees shall be fully earned
when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.       2.10 Computation of Interest and Fees.       (a) Whenever interest is computed based on the Canadian Prime Rate, the Canadian Base Rate or the Base Rate (when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of
America s  prime rate ), or the fees due under  Section 2.05(c)  are computed with respect to any Bankers  Acceptances, such computations shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and
actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day
year), or, in the case of interest in respect of Tranche 1 Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies as to which market practice differs from the foregoing, in accordance with such market practice. Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on
which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid,  provided  that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to
 Section 2.12(a) , bear interest for one day. For purposes of calculating any fees due hereunder, in the case of any Escalating Credits issued or outstanding hereunder, the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments will be deemed to be utilized in
respect of such Escalating Credits in the aggregate amount equal to the maximum aggregate amount available to be drawn under all such Escalating Credits (after giving effect to all increases).      (b) For the purposes of the Interest Act (Canada), (i) whenever a rate of interest or fee rate hereunder is calculated on the basis of a year (the
 deemed year ) that contains fewer days than the actual number of days in the calendar year of calculation, such rate of interest or fee rate shall be expressed as a yearly rate by multiplying such rate of interest or fee rate by the
actual number of days in the calendar year of calculation and dividing it by the number of days in the deemed year, (ii) the principle of deemed reinvestment of interest shall not apply to any interest calculation hereunder and (iii) the
rates of interest stipulated herein are intended to be nominal rates and not effective rates or yields.      (c) Each determination by an Agent
of interest and fees payable by the Company hereunder shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive and binding upon all parties hereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that, as a result of any reconciliation of the   
     
   72   

Administrative Agent s record of outstanding Letters of Credit pursuant to  Section 2.03(n)  or otherwise,
the Administrative Agent determines that there has been an underpayment or overpayment of any fees payable by the Company hereunder, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders thereof, and the Company shall pay to the
Administrative Agent for the account of the Tranche 1 Lenders (in the case of any underpayment) or the Tranche 1 Lenders shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Company (in the case of any overpayment), any amount due as a
result of such reconciliation, on the next regularly occurring payment date for such fee.       2.11 Evidence of Debt.       (a) The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Applicable Agent
in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Applicable Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrowers and the interest and
payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrowers hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between
the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Applicable Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Applicable Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of
any Lender to a Borrower made through the Administrative Agent, such Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender s Loans to such Borrower in addition to such
accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to a Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount, currency and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.      (b) In addition to the accounts and records referred to in subsection (a), each Tranche 1 Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in
accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit and U.S. Swing Line Loans. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by
the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Tranche 1 Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. In addition to the accounts and records
referred to in subsection (a), each Tranche 2 Lender and the Canadian Facility Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Canadian Swing Line
Loans. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Canadian Facility Agent and the accounts and records of any Tranche 2 Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Canadian Facility Agent
shall control in the absence of manifest error.       2.12 Payments Generally; Agent s Clawback.       (a) All payments to be made by the Borrowers shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as
otherwise expressly provided herein and except with respect to principal of and interest on Tranche 1 Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency or Tranche 2 Loans, all payments by the Borrowers         
   73   

hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is
owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent s Office in U.S. Dollars and in Same Day Funds not later than 11:00 a.m. on the date specified herein. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, (i) all payments by the Borrowers hereunder
with respect to principal and interest on Tranche 1 Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Tranche 1 Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable
Administrative Agent s Office in such Alternative Currency and in Same Day Funds not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent on the dates specified herein, and (ii) all payments by the Borrowers hereunder with
respect to principal and interest on Tranche 2 Loans and other amounts payable to the Tranche 2 Lenders shall be made to the Canadian Facility Agent, for the account of the respective Tranche 2 Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the
applicable Canadian Facility Agent s Office, in Canadian Dollars or U.S. Dollars, as required hereunder, and in Same Day Funds, not later than 11:00 a.m. on the dates specified herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Agreement in respect of the Tranche 1 Loans be made in the United States. If, for any reason, any Borrower is prohibited by any Law from making any required payment hereunder in an
Alternative Currency, such Borrower shall make such payment in U.S. Dollars in the U.S. Dollar Equivalent of the Alternative Currency payment amount. The Applicable Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Pro Rata Share (or other
applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender s Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent (i) after 11:00 a.m., in the case of payments in U.S.
Dollars, or (ii) after the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of payments in an Alternative Currency, shall in each case be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee
shall continue to accrue; and all payments received by the Canadian Facility Agent after 11:00 a.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made
by any Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.      (b) (i) Unless the Applicable Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing (or, in the case of
any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Tranche 1 Loans, prior to 9:00 a.m. on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Applicable Agent such Lender s share of such Committed Borrowing, the Applicable
Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with  Section 2.01 ,  2.02  or  2.05  (or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Tranche 1 Loans, that such Lender has made
such share available in accordance with and at the time required by  Section 2.01 ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact
made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Applicable Agent, then the applicable Lender and the applicable Borrower severally agree to pay to the Applicable Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in Same Day
Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to such Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Applicable Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the
Overnight Rate and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by such Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate         
   74   

Loans. If such Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Applicable Agent for the same or an overlapping
period, the Applicable Agent shall promptly remit to such Borrower the amount of such interest paid by such Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Applicable Agent, then the amount so
paid shall constitute such Lender s Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing. Any payment by such Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim such Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to
the Applicable Agent.      (ii) Unless the Applicable Agent shall have received notice from a Borrower prior to the date on which any payment
is due to the Applicable Agent for the account of the Lenders or any L/C Issuer hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment, the Applicable Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and
may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the
case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Applicable Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is
distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Applicable Agent, at the Overnight Rate.      (iii) A notice of the Applicable
Agent to any Lender or Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.      (c) If any Lender makes available to the Applicable Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender to any Borrower as provided in the foregoing provisions of this  Article II , and such funds are not made available to such Borrower
by the Applicable Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in  Article IV  are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Applicable Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received
from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.      (d) The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans and to make
payments pursuant to  Section 10.04(c) , of the Tranche 1 Lenders to fund participations in Letters of Credit and U.S. Swing Line Loans and of the Tranche 2 Lenders to fund participations in Canadian Swing Line Loans are several and not
joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to make any payment under  Section 10.04(c)  or to fund any such participation on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation
to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to make any payment under  Section 10.04(c)  or purchase its participation.      (e) Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a
representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.       2.13 Sharing
of Payments.       (a) If any Tranche 1 Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or         
   75   

otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the
participations in L/C Obligations or in U.S. Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Tranche 1 Lender s receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Tranche 1 Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon
greater than its  pro   rata  share thereof as provided herein, then the Tranche 1 Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value)
participations in the Tranche 1 Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations and U.S. Swing Line Loans of the other Tranche 1 Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared
by the Tranche 1 Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Tranche 1 Loans and other amounts owing them,  provided  that: (i) if any such participations or
subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii) the provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by a Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Tranche 1 Lender as
consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Tranche 1 Loans or subparticipations in L/C Obligations or U.S. Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Company or any Subsidiary thereof (as to
which the provisions of this subsection shall apply).      (b) If any Tranche 2 Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim
or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Tranche 2 Loans made by it or in Canadian Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Tranche 2 Lender s receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate
amount of such Tranche 2 Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its  pro   rata  share thereof as provided herein, then the Tranche 2 Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Agents of
such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Tranche 2 Loans and subparticipations in Canadian Swing Line Loans of the other Tranche 2 Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the
benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Tranche 2 Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Tranche 2 Loans and other amounts owing them,  provided  that:
(i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent
of such recovery, without interest; and (ii) the provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by a Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any
payment obtained by a Tranche 2 Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Tranche 2 Loans or Canadian Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Company or any Subsidiary thereof
(as to which the provisions of this subsection shall apply).      (c) Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may
effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such
Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.         
   76   

2.14 Designated Borrowers.       (a) Effective as of the date hereof, Jacobs France S.A.S., Gibb Holdings Limited, Jacobs U.K. Holdings Limited, Jacobs Engineering U.K. Limited and
JacobsGIBB Limited, each a Material Subsidiary of the Company, shall each be a  Designated Borrower  hereunder and may receive Tranche 1 Loans for its account on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; and Jacobs Canada Inc.,
a Material Subsidiary of the Company, shall be a  Designated Borrower  hereunder and may receive Tranche 2 Loans and Canadian Swing Line Loans for its account on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. The Company may at any
time, upon not less than 15 Business Days  notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), designate any additional Material Subsidiary of the
Company (an   Applicant Borrower  ) as a Designated Borrower to receive Tranche 1 Loans, or as a Designated Borrower to receive Tranche 2 Loans and, if specified, Canadian Swing Line Loans hereunder, by delivering to the
Administrative Agent (which shall promptly deliver counterparts thereof to each Tranche 1 Lender or Tranche 2 Lender, as applicable) (i) a duly executed notice and agreement in substantially the form of  Exhibit H  (a
  Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement  ), and (ii) if such Subsidiary is a Foreign Designated Borrower, cause such Subsidiary to execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an accession agreement in the form
of Annex 1 to the Foreign Designated Borrower Guaranty, appropriately completed;  provided  that (A) the Foreign Designated Borrower Guaranty to be executed and delivered by any Foreign Designated Borrower may contain such modifications
thereto as the Administrative Agent (in consultation with the Canadian Facility Agent in the case of Canadian legal issues) shall deem necessary or appropriate to take into account any legal restrictions of the jurisdiction in which such Foreign
Designated Borrower is organized, and (B) no Foreign Designated Borrower will be required to execute and deliver the Foreign Designated Borrower Guaranty in the event the Administrative Agent determines in its reasonable discretion and after
consultation with the Company (and with the Canadian Facility Agent in the case of Canadian legal issues) and the concurrence of the Required Lenders that as a result of any such legal restrictions such execution and delivery is not commercially
feasible. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that prior to any Applicant Borrower becoming entitled to utilize the credit facilities provided for herein the Agents and the Lenders shall have received such supporting resolutions, incumbency
certificates, opinions of counsel and other documents or information, in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, as may be required by the Agents or the Required Lenders in their sole discretion, and Notes signed
by such new Borrowers to the extent any Lenders so require. If the Agents and the Required Tranche 1 Lenders agree, in the case of an Applicant Borrower designated to receive Tranche 1 Loans, or the Agents and the Required Tranche 2 Lenders agree,
in the case of an Applicant Borrower designated to receive Tranche 2 Loans, that an Applicant Borrower shall be entitled to receive Loans hereunder, then promptly following receipt of all such requested resolutions, incumbency certificates, opinions
of counsel and other documents or information, the Administrative Agent shall send a notice in substantially the form of  Exhibit I  (a   Designated Borrower Notice  ) to the Company, the Canadian Facility Agent and the
Lenders specifying the effective date upon which the Applicant Borrower shall constitute a Designated Borrower for purposes hereof, whereupon each of the Lenders agrees to permit such Designated Borrower to receive Loans hereunder, on the terms and
conditions set forth herein, and each of the parties agrees that such Designated Borrower otherwise shall be a Borrower for all purposes of this Agreement;  provided  that no Committed Loan Notice or Letter         
   77   

of Credit Application may be submitted by or on behalf of such Designated Borrower until the date five Business Days
after such effective date;  provided   further , that effective as of the date hereof, the Required Tranche 1 Lenders approve each of the following Material Subsidiaries as a  Designated Borrower  to receive Tranche 1 Loans,
subject to satisfaction of the other conditions set forth in this  Section 2.14 : Jacobs Nederland B.V., Jacobs Engineering Espana, S.L., Jacobs Engineering Inc., Jacobs Engineering Singapore Pte. Ltd., Jacobs Engineering Ireland Limited,
Jacobs Serete S.A.S., and Jacobs Switzerland GmbH.      (b) Without limiting any rights, powers and remedies of the Administrative Agent on
behalf of the L/C Issuers and the Agents and the Lenders under the Guaranties, (i) each of the Company and each Domestic Designated Borrower agrees that it is jointly and severally liable to the Agents, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders for the
payment of all Obligations of all other Borrowers, including Foreign Designated Borrowers, and that such liability is independent of the Obligations of the other Borrowers, (ii) each Foreign Designated Borrower agrees that it is jointly and
severally liable to the Agents, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders for the payment of all Obligations of all other Foreign Designated Borrowers and that such liability is independent of the Obligations of the Company, the Domestic Designated Borrowers
and the other Foreign Designated Borrowers, and (iii) each Agent, L/C Issuer and Lender agrees that no Foreign Designated Borrower is liable to the Agents, the L/C Issuers or the Lenders for the payment of any Obligations of the Company or any
Domestic Designated Borrower.      (c) Each Subsidiary of the Company that is or becomes a  Designated Borrower  pursuant to this
 Section 2.14  hereby irrevocably appoints the Company as its agent for all purposes relevant to this Agreement and each of the other Loan Documents, including (i) the giving and receipt of notices, (ii) the execution and
delivery of all documents, instruments and certificates contemplated herein and all modifications hereto, and (iii) the receipt of the proceeds of any Loans made by the Lenders, to any such Designated Borrower hereunder. Any acknowledgment,
consent, direction, certification or other action which might otherwise be valid or effective only if given or taken by all Borrowers, or by each Borrower acting singly, shall be valid and effective if given or taken only by the Company, whether or
not any such other Borrower joins therein. Any notice, demand, consent, acknowledgement, direction, certification or other communication delivered to the Company in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been delivered
to each Designated Borrower.      (d) The Company may from time to time, upon not less than 15 Business Days  notice from the Company to
the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), terminate a Designated Borrower s status as such,  provided  that there are no outstanding Loans payable by such
Designated Borrower, or other amounts payable by such Designated Borrower on account of any Loans made to it, as of the effective date of such termination. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Canadian Facility Agent and the Lenders of
any such termination of a Designated Borrower s status.       2.15 Increase in Commitments.       (a) Provided there exists no Default, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Canadian Facility Agent and the Lenders),
the Company may from time         
   78   

to time request an increase in the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments and/or the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments by an
amount (for all such requests) not exceeding U.S.$150,000,000;  provided  that (i) any such request for an increase shall be in a minimum amount of U.S.$10,000,000 or a whole multiple of U.S.$1,000,000 in excess thereof (in the case of the
Tranche 1 Commitments) and U.S.$10,000,000 or a whole multiple of U.S.$1,000,000 in excess thereof (in the case of the Tranche 2 Commitments), and (ii) the Company may make a maximum of three such requests from the Closing Date to the Maturity
Date. At the time of sending such notice, the Company (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the
date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders). Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its applicable Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or
less than its Pro Rata Share of such requested increase. Any Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Commitment. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Canadian Facility Agent, the Company
and each Lender of the Lenders  responses to each request made hereunder. To achieve the full amount of a requested increase, the Company may also invite additional Eligible Assignees to become Lenders pursuant to a joinder agreement in form
and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (and the Canadian Facility Agent, for any joinder agreements in respect of additional Eligible Assignees proposed by the Company to become a Tranche 2 Lender).      (b) If the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments or the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments shall be increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative
Agent (in consultation with the Canadian Facility Agent in the case of the Aggregate Tranche 2 Commitments) and the Company shall determine the effective date (the   Increase Effective Date  ) and the final allocation of such increase
occurring at such time. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company, the Canadian Facility Agent and the Lenders of the final allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date. As a condition precedent to such increase, the
Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching
the resolutions adopted by such Loan Party approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) in the case of the Company, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in
 Article V  and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct
as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this  Section 2.15 , the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of  Section 5.05  shall be deemed to refer to the most recent
statements furnished pursuant to subsections (a) and (b), respectively, of  Section 6.01 , and (B) no Default exists. The Borrowers shall prepay any Tranche 1 Loans or Tranche 2 Loans, as the case may be, outstanding on the
Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to  Section 3.05  and provide any Tranche 2 Cash Collateral required under  Section 2.05(p) ) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Tranche 1
Loans or Tranche 2 Loans, as the case may be, ratable with any revised Pro Rata Shares arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section.         
   79   

(c) This Section shall supersede any provisions in  Sections 2.13  or  10.01  to the contrary.
      2.16 Redesignation of Commitments.       (a) Provided there exists no Default, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Canadian Facility Agent and the Lenders), the Company may from time to time request a redesignation of all
or any portion of any Tranche 1 Commitment of any Lender as a Tranche 2 Commitment;  provided  that (i) any such request for a redesignation shall be in a minimum amount of U.S.$10,000,000 in the aggregate or a whole multiple of
U.S.$5,000,000 in excess thereof for all applicable Tranche 1 Lenders, and (ii) the Company may provide notices of a maximum of five such aggregate reallocations from the Closing Date to the Maturity Date. At the time of sending such notice,
the Company (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which the applicable Tranche 1 Lenders are requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of
such notice to any such Lenders). Each such Tranche 1 Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to redesignate its Tranche 1 Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or
less than the requested amount of such redesignation. Any Tranche 1 Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to redesignate its Tranche 1 Commitment. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Canadian Facility
Agent, the Company and each Lender of the applicable Tranche 1 Lenders  responses to each request made hereunder.      (b) If all or any
portion of any of the Tranche 1 Commitments shall be redesignated as Tranche 2 Commitments in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent (in consultation with the Canadian Facility Agent) and the Company shall determine the effective
date (the   Reallocation Effective Date  ) and the final allocation of the decrease in Tranche 1 Commitments and increase in Tranche 2 Commitments occurring at such time. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company, the
Canadian Facility Agent and the Lenders of the final allocation of such decrease and related increase and the Reallocation Effective Date. As a condition precedent to such decrease and related increase, the Company shall deliver to the
Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Reallocation Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by
such Loan Party approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) in the case of the Company, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in  Article V  and the
other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Reallocation Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier
date, and except that for purposes of this  Section 2.16 , the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of  Section 5.05  shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished
pursuant to subsections (a) and (b), respectively, of  Section 6.01 , and (B) no Default exists.      (c) In connection
with a redesignation of Tranche 1 Commitments pursuant to this  Section 2.16 , to the extent necessary to ensure that any Tranche 1 Lender participating in a redesignation does not hold Tranche 1 Loans in excess of its remaining Tranche 1
Commitment         
   80   

(if any) and to keep the outstanding Tranche 1 Loans and participations in U.S. Swing Line Loans or L/C Obligations
ratable with any revised Pro Rata Shares arising from any nonratable redesignation of Tranche 1 Commitments under this Section, the parties shall take one or more of the following actions, effective the Reallocation Effective Date: (i) the
Tranche 1 Lenders shall assign on the Reallocation Effective Date, without recourse, to the other Tranche 1 Lenders, such portion of the Tranche 1 Loans as shall be necessary to effectuate such adjustments, and the Company shall pay any additional
amounts required pursuant to  Section 3.05  as shall be required in connection therewith; (ii) after giving effect to any such assignments, the Company shall make such prepayments hereunder (together with accrued interest and any
additional amounts required pursuant to  Section 3.05 ) of the Tranche 1 Loans of each Tranche 1 Lender participating in a requested redesignation, as shall additionally be necessary; and (iii) if any U.S. Swing Line Loans or L/C
Obligations shall be outstanding on the Reallocation Effective Date, after giving effect to the redesignation, the remaining Tranche 1 Lenders shall purchase and assume participations in L/C Obligations or U.S. Swing Line Loans, as the case may be,
as shall be necessary to take into account the adjusted Pro Rata Shares of such Tranche 1 Lenders. In connection therewith, the affected Tranche 1 Lenders shall execute and deliver Assignment and Assumptions with respect to the Tranche 1
Lenders  Tranche 1 Commitments and outstanding Tranche 1 Loans and participations in L/C Obligations and U.S. Swing Line Loans as shall be necessary to effectuate this  Section 2.16(c) . All facility fees and Letter of Credit fees
accrued until the effective date of any redesignation of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments shall be paid on the Reallocation Effective Date to the applicable Tranche 1 Lenders.      (d) The Company shall not redesignate any Tranche 1 Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total
Tranche 1 Outstandings plus the Alternative Currency Reserve (if any) would exceed the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments. If, after giving effect to any redesignation of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments, the FLOC Sublimit or the U.S. Swing Line
Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments, such Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess. The amount of any decrease in the Aggregate Tranche 1 Commitments shall not be applied to the FLOC
Sublimit unless otherwise specified by the Company.      (e) The Company also shall not redesignate any Tranche 1 Commitment in respect of a
Lender that is not a Schedule I Bank, a Schedule II Bank, a Schedule III Bank or another Person who is a resident of Canada or otherwise not subject to withholding tax for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) and the regulations
promulgated thereunder.      (f) The Company and Tranche 1 Lenders shall execute and deliver such further documents, in form, content and scope
reasonably satisfactory to the Agents, and take such further action, as either Agent shall reasonably request to accomplish such redesignation and the purposes of this  Section 2.16       (g) This Section shall supersede any provisions in  Sections 2.13  or  10.01  to the contrary.         
   81   

ARTICLE III.        TAXES, YIELD PROTECTION AND ILLEGALITY        3.01 Taxes.       (a)  Payments Free of Taxes . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the respective Borrowers hereunder or under any other Loan
Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes,  provided  that if the applicable Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including
any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Agent, Lender or L/C
Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the
relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.      (b)  Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrowers . Without limiting
the provisions of subsection (a) above, each Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.      (c)  Indemnification by the Borrowers . Each Borrower shall indemnify each of the Agents, Lenders and L/C Issuers, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes
(including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by either Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses
arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability
delivered to a Borrower by the Canadian Facility Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of the Canadian Facility Agent, any Lender or any L/C
Issuer, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.      (d)  Evidence of Payments . As soon as practicable after any payment of
Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by any Borrower to a Governmental Authority, such Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy
of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.      (e)  Status
of Lenders . Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which a Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with
respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Company (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Company or the Applicable Agent,
such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Company or the   
     
   82   

Applicable Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the
Company or the Applicable Agent as will enable the Company or the Applicable Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.      Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that a Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender
shall deliver to Company and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon
the request of the Company or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:      (i) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the
United States is a party,      (ii) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,      (iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code,
(x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a  bank  within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a  10 percent shareholder  of the applicable Borrower within the meaning of
section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a  controlled foreign corporation  described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or      (iv) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal
withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Company to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.      Without limiting the obligations of the Lenders set forth above regarding delivery of certain forms and documents to establish each Lender s status
for U.S. withholding tax purposes, each Lender agrees promptly to deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Company, as the Applicable Agent or the Company shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion
thereafter, such other documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any other jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Lender, as are required under such Laws to confirm such Lender s entitlement to
any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable withholding taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender outside of the U.S. by the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lender s status for
withholding tax purposes in such other jurisdiction. Each Lender shall promptly (i) notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any such claimed exemption or reduction, and (ii) take
such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any such
jurisdiction that any Borrower make any deduction or withholding for taxes from amounts payable to such Lender.         
   83   

Additionally, each of the Borrowers shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the Applicable
Agent or such Lender shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any jurisdiction, duly executed and completed
by such Borrower, as are required to be furnished by such Lender or the Applicable Agent under such Laws in connection with any payment by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of Taxes or Other Taxes, or otherwise in connection with the Loan
Documents, with respect to such jurisdiction.      (f)  Treatment of Certain Refunds . If either Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer
determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by any Borrower or with respect to which any Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this
 Section 3.01 , it shall pay to such Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes
giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of such Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund),
 provided  that each Borrower, upon the request of such Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority)
to such Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer in the event such Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require either Agent, any Lender or any
L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to any Borrower or any other Person.      (g)  Sale or Discount of Bankers  Acceptances . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this  Section 3.01 , in no event shall any Borrower be required to pay any additional amount to any
Person under this  Section 3.01  if the requirement to make such payment results from or arises in connection with the sale or discount of a Bankers  Acceptance by a Tranche 2 Lender as contemplated by  Section 2.05(f)(iv) .
      3.02 Illegality.  If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that
it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to accept, fund or maintain Bankers  Acceptances, or to make, maintain or fund Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether denominated in U.S. Dollars or an Alternative Currency) or other
Tranche 2 Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, U.S. Dollars,
Canadian Dollars or any Alternative Currency in the applicable interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Company through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender (i) to make or continue Eurocurrency Rate
Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in U.S. Dollars, to convert Base Rate Tranche 1 Loans to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, or (ii) to accept, fund or maintain Bankers  Acceptances or to make,
maintain or continue other Tranche 2 Loans, shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Applicable Agent and the Company that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrowers
shall, (A) upon demand from the affected Tranche 1         
   84   

Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable and the affected Tranche 1 Loans are
denominated in U.S. Dollars, convert all such Eurocurrency Rate Loans of such Tranche 1 Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Tranche 1 Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency
Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Tranche 1 Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans; and (B) upon demand from the affected Tranche 2 Lender (with a copy to the Canadian Facility Agent), prepay or
convert all such Tranche 2 Loans of such Tranche 2 Lender to Tranche 2 Loans of another Type, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor (in respect of any Bankers  Acceptances), if such Tranche 2 Lender may lawfully continue to
maintain such Bankers  Acceptances to such day, or immediately, if such Tranche 2 Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Bankers  Acceptances or in the case of Canadian Prime Rate Advances. Upon any such prepayment or
conversion, the Borrowers shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.       3.03 Inability to Determine Rates.
      (a) If the Required Tranche 1 Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or a
conversion to or continuation thereof that (i) deposits (whether in U.S. Dollars or an Alternative Currency) are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency for the applicable amount and Interest
Period of such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, (ii) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurocurrency Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan (whether denominated in U.S.
Dollars or an Alternative Currency), or (iii) the Eurocurrency Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Tranche 1 Lenders of funding such
Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Company and each Tranche 1 Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Tranche 1 Lenders to make or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies
shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Tranche 1 Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Company may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation
of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Tranche 1 Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.      (b) If the Required Tranche 2 Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Bankers  Acceptance or a Conversion to or
Rollover thereof that (i) there no longer exists an active market for bankers  acceptances accepted by the Tranche 2 Lenders, or (ii) the Discount Rate does not accurately reflect the discount rate which would be applicable to a sale
of Bankers  Acceptances in the market, the Canadian Facility Agent will promptly so notify the Company and each Tranche 2 Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Tranche 2 Lenders to make or maintain Bankers  Acceptances or BA Equivalent
Advances shall be suspended until the Canadian Facility Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Tranche 2 Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Company may revoke any pending Drawdown Notice, Conversion Notice or
Rollover Notice, and (A) any outstanding Drawdown Notice requesting a Tranche 2 Loan by way of Bankers  Acceptances or BA Equivalent Advances shall be deemed to be a Drawdown Notice requesting a Tranche 2 Loan by way of Canadian Prime Rate
Loans in         
   85   

the amount specified in the original Drawdown Notice; (B) any outstanding Rollover Notice requesting a Rollover of a
Tranche 2 Loan by way of Bankers  Acceptances or BA Equivalent Advances, shall be deemed to be a Conversion Notice requesting a Conversion of such Tranche 2 Loan into a Tranche 2 Loan by way of Canadian Prime Rate Loans, and (C) any
outstanding Conversion Notice requesting a Conversion into a Tranche 2 Loan by way of Bankers  Acceptances or BA Equivalent Advances, shall be deemed to be withdrawn.       3.04 Increased Cost and Reduced Return; Capital Adequacy.       (a)  Increased Costs Generally . If any Change in Law shall:      (i) impose, modify or
deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except (A) any reserve
requirement contemplated by  Section 3.04(e)  and (B) the requirements of the Bank of England and the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank reflected in the Mandatory Cost, other than as set forth below) or any L/C
Issuer;      (ii) subject any Lender or any L/C Issuer to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any
Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit, any Bankers  Acceptance accepted by it or any Eurocurrency Rate Loan or other Tranche 2 Loan made by it or, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or the L/C Issuer
in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by  Section 3.01  and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender or L/C Issuer);      (iii) result in the Mandatory Cost, as calculated hereunder, not representing the cost to any Lender of complying with the requirements of
the Bank of England and/or the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank in relation to its making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Loans; or      (iv) impose on any Lender or any L/C Issuer, the Canadian money market or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense
affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Rate Loans or Tranche 2 Loans made or funded by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;      and
the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making, funding or maintaining any Eurocurrency Rate Loan or Tranche 2 Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such
Lender or L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or
L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender or L/C Issuer, the Company will pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender or L/C Issuer, as the case may be,
such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.         
   86   

(b)  Capital Requirements . If any Lender or L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting
such Lender or L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender s or such L/C Issuer s holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender s
or such L/C Issuer s capital or on the capital of such Lender s or such L/C Issuer s holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of
Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or such L/C Issuer or such Lender s or such L/C Issuer s holding company could have achieved but for such Change in
Law (taking into consideration such Lender s or such L/C Issuer s policies and the policies of such Lender s or such L/C Issuer s holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Company will pay (or
cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer or such Lender s or such L/C Issuer s holding
company for any such reduction suffered.      (c)  Certificates for Reimbursement . A certificate of a Lender or any L/C Issuer setting
forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Company shall be conclusive absent
manifest error. The Company shall pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.      (d)  Delay in Requests . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or any L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of
this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender s or such L/C Issuer s right to demand such compensation,  provided  that no Borrower shall be required to compensate a Lender or L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing
provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than nine months prior to the date that such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Company of the Change in Law giving rise to such
increased costs or reductions and of such Lender s or such L/C Issuer s intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the nine-month
period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).      (e)  Additional Reserve
Requirements . The Company shall pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to each Lender, (i) as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including
Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as  Eurocurrency liabilities ), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurocurrency Rate Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such
Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), and (ii) as long as such Lender shall be required to comply with any reserve ratio requirement or analogous requirement of any other central banking
or financial regulatory authority imposed in respect of the funding or maintenance of the Tranche 1 Commitments, the Eurocurrency Rate Loans, the Tranche 2 Commitments or the Tranche 2 Loans, such additional costs (expressed as a percentage per
annum and rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest five decimal places) equal to the actual costs allocated to such Commitment or Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which         
   87   

determination shall be conclusive), which in each case shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable
on any such Loan,  provided  the Company shall have received at least ten days  prior notice (with a copy to the Applicable Agent) of such additional interest costs from such Lender. If a Lender fails to give notice ten days prior to the
relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest or costs shall be due and payable ten days from receipt of such notice.       3.05
Compensation for Losses . Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Applicable Agent) from time to time, the Company shall promptly compensate (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to compensate) such Lender for and hold such Lender
harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:      (a) any continuation, Conversion, Rollover, payment or prepayment of
any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, a Canadian Base Rate Loan or a Canadian Prime Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
     (b) the prepayment of any outstanding Bankers  Acceptance before the maturity date of such Bankers  Acceptance;      (c) any failure by any Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue, roll over or convert any
Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, a Canadian Base Rate Loan or a Canadian Prime Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Company or the applicable Designated Borrower;      (d) any failure by any Borrower to make payment of any Loan or drawing under any Letter of Credit (or interest due thereon) denominated in an Alternative
Currency or Canadian Dollars on its scheduled due date or any payment thereof in a different currency; or      (e) any assignment of a
Eurocurrency Rate Loan or Bankers  Acceptance on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to  Section 2.16  or  10.14 ;      excluding, however, any loss of anticipated profits, but including any foreign exchange losses and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of
funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan, from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained or from the performance of any foreign exchange contract. The Company shall also pay (or cause the applicable Designated
Borrower to pay) any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.      For purposes of calculating amounts payable by
the Company (or the applicable Designated Borrower) to the Lenders under this  Section 3.05 , each Tranche 1 Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it at the Eurocurrency Rate for such Loan by a matching
deposit or other borrowing in the offshore interbank market for such currency for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurocurrency Rate Loan was in fact so funded.         
   88   

3.06 Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.       (a)  Designation of a Different Lending Office . If any Lender requests compensation under  Section 3.04 , or any Borrower is required to
pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to  Section 3.01 , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to  Section 3.02 , then such Lender shall use reasonable
efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or
assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to  Section 3.01  or  3.04 , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to  Section 3.02 , as applicable, and
(ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Company hereby agrees to pay (or to cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) all
reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.      (b)  Replacement of
Lenders . If any Lender requests compensation under  Section 3.04 , or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to
 Section 3.01 , the Company may replace such Lender in accordance with  Section 10.14 .       3.07 Survival.  All of
the Borrowers  obligations under this  Article III  shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.       ARTICLE IV.        CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO CREDIT EXTENSIONS        4.01 Conditions of Initial Credit Extension.  The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to
satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:      (a) The Administrative Agent s receipt of the following, each of which shall be
originals or facsimiles (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party, each dated the Closing Date or immediately prior to the Closing Date (or, in the case of
certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders:      (i) executed counterparts of this Agreement and the Guaranties, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each
Lender and the Company;      (ii) Notes executed by the Borrowers in favor of each Lender requesting Notes;      (iii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of the
Company as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which
the Company is a party;         
   89   

(iv) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require
to evidence that the Company is duly organized or formed, and that it is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business
requires such qualification, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;      (v) favorable opinions of (A) counsel to the Company, addressed to the Agents and each Lender, as to the matters set forth in  Exhibit J  (which opinion may be rendered by internal Company counsel), and
(B) Morrison   Foerster LLP, counsel to the Administrative Agent, addressed to the Agents and each Lender, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agents and each Lender;      (vi) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company certifying (A) that the conditions specified in  Sections
4.02(a)  and  (b)  have been satisfied, (B) that there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the
aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; and (C) either (1) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party and the validity against such Loan
Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (2) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required; and      (vii) unless waived by any L/C Issuer in respect of any amounts owing in respect of Existing Letters of Credit issued by it, payment of
all accrued costs, fees, expenses and other amounts owing (other than outstanding loans) under the Existing Credit Agreement.      (b) Any fees
required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.      (c) Unless waived by the Applicable Agent, the Company shall have
paid all fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to each Agent to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to each Agent as shall constitute its reasonable
estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Company and the Applicable Agent).
     Without limiting the generality of the provisions of  Section 9.04 , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions
specified in this  Section 4.01 , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or
approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.         
   90   

(d) The Closing Date shall have occurred on or before December 20, 2005.       4.02 Conditions to all Credit Extensions.  The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan
Notice requesting only a conversion of Tranche 1 Loans to the other Type, a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, or, with respect to any Tranche 2 Loans, a Rollover, a Conversion, or a Canadian Swing Line Loan) is subject to the following
conditions precedent:      (a) The representations and warranties of the Borrowers contained in  Article V  or any representations and
warranties of any Loan Party in other Loan Document, or which are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except to the
extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this  Section 4.02 , the representations and
warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of  Section 5.05  shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of  Section 6.01 .      (b) No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension.      (c) The Applicable Agent and, if applicable, any L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with
the requirements hereof.      (d) If the applicable Borrower is a Designated Borrower, then the conditions of  Section 2.14  to the
designation of such Borrower as a Designated Borrower shall have been met to the satisfaction of the Administrative Agent.      (e) In the case
of a Credit Extension to be denominated in an Alternative Currency or Canadian Dollars, there shall not have occurred any change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls
which in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent, the Required Tranche 1 Lenders (in the case of any Tranche 1 Loans to be denominated in an Alternative Currency), the Canadian Facility Agent or the Required Tranche 2 Lenders (in the case
of any Tranche 2 Loans) or the applicable L/C Issuer (in the case of any Letter of Credit to be denominated in an Alternative Currency or Canadian Dollars) would make it impracticable for such Credit Extension to be denominated in the relevant
Alternative Currency or Canadian Dollars.      (f) In the case of any Drawdown, Conversion or Rollover of Bankers  Acceptances, each of
the conditions to the acceptance and discounting of such Bankers  Acceptances set forth in  Section 2.05  shall have been satisfied.      Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only conversion of Tranche 1 Loans to the other Type, a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, or, with respect to any Tranche 2 Loans, a Rollover, a
Conversion, or a Canadian Swing Line Loan) submitted by the Company shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in  Sections 4.02(a)  and  (b)  have been satisfied on and as of the date of the
applicable Credit Extension.         
   91   

ARTICLE V.        REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES       Except as otherwise provided in  Section 5.18 , each
Borrower represents and warrants to the Agents and the Lenders that:       5.01 Existence, Qualification and Power; Compliance with Laws. 
Each Loan Party (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental
licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, (c) is duly qualified and is
licensed and in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license, and (d) is in compliance with all Laws; except in
each case referred to in clause (b)(i), (c) or (d), to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.       5.02 Authorization; No Contravention.  The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is party, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or
other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of such Person s Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under,
(i) any Contractual Obligation to which such Person is a party or (ii) any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject; or (c) violate any Law.
      5.03 Governmental Authorization; Other Consents.  No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to,
or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.       5.04 Binding Effect.  This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered
by each Loan Party that is party thereto. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party, enforceable against each Loan Party that is party thereto
in accordance with its terms.       5.05 Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect.       (a) The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as
otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently
applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly         
   92   

noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Company
and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.      (b) The unaudited
consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries dated June 30, 2005, and the related consolidated statement of earnings for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied
throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered
thereby, and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date of such financial statements, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments
and Indebtedness subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments.      (c) Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.       5.06 Litigation.  There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of the Company after due and diligent
investigation, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) purport to affect or
pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (b) either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.       5.07 No Default.  No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement or any other Loan Document.       5.08 Ownership of Property; Liens.  Each of the Company and each Subsidiary has good record
and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be
expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The property of the Company and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens permitted by  Section 7.01 .       5.09 Environmental Compliance.  The Company and its Subsidiaries conduct in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing
Environmental Laws and claims alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law on their respective businesses, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Company has reasonably concluded that, except
as specifically disclosed in  Schedule 5.09 , such Environmental Laws and claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.       5.10 Insurance.  The properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not
Affiliates of the Company, in such         
   93   

amounts (after giving effect to any self-insurance compatible with the following standards), with such deductibles and
covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Company or the applicable Subsidiary operates.       5.11 Taxes.  The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all Federal, state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and
have paid all Federal, state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith
by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP. There is no proposed tax assessment against the Company or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse
Effect.       5.12 ERISA Compliance; Foreign Plans.       (a) Except as specifically disclosed in  Schedule 5.12 , each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state Laws. Each Plan that is
intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS with respect thereto and, to the best knowledge of the
Company, nothing has occurred which would prevent, or cause the loss of, such qualification. The Company and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and no application for a
funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.      (b) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could be reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse
Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.      (c) (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (iii) neither
the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (iv) neither
the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Sections 4201 or 4243
of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (v) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Sections 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.      (d) All employer and employee contributions required by any applicable Law in connection with all Foreign Plans have been made, or, if applicable,
accrued, in accordance with the country-specific accounting practices. The fair market value of the assets of each funded Foreign Plan, the liability of each insurer for any Foreign Plan funded through insurance or the book reserve established for
any Foreign Plan, together with any accrued contributions, is sufficient to procure or provide for the accrued benefit obligations, as of the date hereof, with         
   94   

respect to all current and former participants in such Foreign Plan according to the actuarial assumptions and valuations
most recently used to determine employer contributions to such Foreign Plan, which actuarial assumptions are commercially reasonable. Each Foreign Plan required to be registered has been registered and has been maintained in good standing with
applicable Governmental Authorities. Each Foreign Plan reasonably complies in all material respects with all applicable Laws.       5.13
Subsidiaries.  As of the Closing Date, the Company has no Subsidiaries other than (a) those specifically disclosed in  Schedule 5.13 , (b) inactive or dormant Subsidiaries, and (c) Subsidiaries whose results of operations and
assets are immaterial in relation to the Company s consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial position. As of the Closing Date, the Company has no Material Subsidiaries other than those Subsidiaries specified as a Material
Subsidiary on  Schedule 5.13 .       5.14 Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act; Public Utility Holding Company Act.
      (a) The proceeds of the Credit Extensions are to be used solely for the purposes set forth in and permitted by  Section 6.11 
and  Section 7.10 .      (b) No Borrower is engaged or will engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the
business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock.      (c) None of the Company, any Person Controlling the Company, or any Subsidiary (i) is a  holding company,  or a  subsidiary
company  of a  holding company,  or an  affiliate  of a  holding company  or of a  subsidiary company  of a  holding company,  within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of
1935, or (ii) is or is required to be registered as an  investment company  under the Investment Company Act of 1940.       5.15 Disclosure.  The information furnished by or on behalf of the Loan Parties to the Agents or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as
modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) does not contain any material misstatement of fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made,
not misleading;  provided  that, with respect to projected financial information, the Company represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.       5.16 Compliance with Laws.  Each of the Company and each Subsidiary is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and
all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings
diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.         
   95   

5.17 Intellectual Property; Licenses, Etc.  The Company and its Subsidiaries own, or possess the
right to use, all of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent rights, franchises, licenses and other intellectual property rights (collectively,   IP Rights  ) that are reasonably necessary for the
operation of their respective businesses, without material conflict with the rights of any other Person. No claim or litigation regarding any of the foregoing is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened, which, either
individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.       5.18 Foreign Designated Borrower
Representations.  The Company and each Foreign Designated Borrower represents and warrants to the Agents and the Lenders that:      (a) Each
Foreign Designated Borrower is subject to civil and commercial law with respect to its obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which a Foreign Designated Borrower is a party (collectively, the   Applicable Foreign
Obligor Documents  ), and the execution, delivery and performance by such Foreign Designated Borrower of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents constitute and will constitute private and commercial acts and not public or governmental acts.
Neither such Foreign Designated Borrower nor any of its property has any immunity from jurisdiction of any court or from any legal process (whether through service or notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution, execution or
otherwise) under the laws of the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Designated Borrower is organized and existing in respect of its obligations under the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents.      (b) The Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents are in proper legal form under the law of the jurisdiction in which any Foreign Designated Borrower is
organized and existing for the enforcement thereof against such Foreign Designated Borrower under the law of such jurisdiction, and to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability, priority or admissibility in evidence of the Applicable Foreign
Obligor Documents. It is not necessary to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability, priority or admissibility in evidence of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents that the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents be filed, registered or recorded
with, or executed or notarized before, any court or other authority in the jurisdiction in which any Foreign Designated Borrower is organized and existing or that any registration charge or stamp or similar tax be paid on or in respect of the
Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents or any other document, except for any such filing, registration or recording, or execution or notarization, as has been made or is not required to be made until the Applicable Foreign Obligor Document or any
other document is sought to be enforced and for any charge or tax as has been timely paid.      (c) There is no tax, levy, impost, duty, fee,
assessment or other governmental charge, or any deduction or withholding, imposed by any Governmental Authority in or of the jurisdiction in which the Foreign Designated Borrower is organized and existing either (A) on or by virtue of the
execution or delivery of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents to which the Foreign Designated Borrower is a party or (B) on any payment to be made by the Foreign Designated Borrower pursuant to the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents,
except as has been disclosed to the Agents.         
   96   

(d) The execution, delivery and performance of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents executed by any
Foreign Designated Borrower are, under applicable foreign exchange control regulations of the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Designated Borrower is organized and existing, not subject to any notification or authorization except (A) such as
have been made or obtained or (B) such as cannot be made or obtained until a later date ( provided  that any notification or authorization described in immediately preceding clause (B) shall be made or obtained as soon as is
reasonably practicable).       5.19 Company s Authority to Act.  The Company has, and so long as any Lender shall have any Commitment
hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, shall have, the absolute and complete authority to take action hereunder and under the other Loan Documents in
the name of and for the account of each of its Subsidiaries, including to execute any other Loan Documents on behalf thereof, without further action by or the consent of any such Subsidiary;  provided ,  however , that nothing contained
herein shall require the Applicable Agent to accept action by the Company in lieu of any such Subsidiary.       ARTICLE VI.        AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS       So long as any
Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, the Company shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in
 Sections 6.01 ,  6.02 ,  6.03  and  6.11 ) cause each Subsidiary to:       6.01 Financial Statements.  Deliver to the
Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:      (a) as soon as
available, but in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of earnings,
shareholders  equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, audited and accompanied by a
report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders, which report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and
shall not be subject to any  going concern  or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit; and      (b) as soon as available, but in any event within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries
as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of earnings for (i) the most recently completed fiscal quarter, and (ii) the period beginning with the first day of the current fiscal year and ending of the
last day of the most recently completed fiscal quarter, and cash flows for the period beginning with the first day of the current fiscal year and ending on the last day of the most recently completed fiscal quarter. The consolidated balance sheet
shall be presented in comparative form with the balances as at         
   97   

the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year. The consolidated statements of earnings and the consolidated statements
of cash flows shall likewise be presented in comparative form, and include the figures and amounts for the comparable period(s) of the immediately preceding fiscal year. Such consolidated financial statements shall be in reasonable detail and
certified by a Responsible Officer of the Company as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal recurring adjustments and the
absence of footnotes.      As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to  Section 6.02(c) , the Company shall not be separately
required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Company to furnish the information and materials described in subsections (a) and (b) above
at the times specified therein.       6.02 Certificates; Other Information.  Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form
and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:      (a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial
statements referred to in  Section 6.01(a) , a certificate of its independent certified public accountants certifying such financial statements and stating that in making the examination necessary therefor no knowledge was obtained of any
Default under the financial covenants set forth herein or, if any such Default shall exist, stating the nature and status of such event;      (b) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in  Sections 6.01(a)  and  (b) , a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company;      (c) promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the
stockholders of the Company, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Company may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto; and      (d) promptly, such additional
information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.   
  Documents required to be delivered pursuant to  Section 6.01(a)  or  (b)  or  Section 6.02(c)  (to the extent any such
documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Company posts such documents, or provides a link thereto
on the Company s website on the Internet at the website address listed on  Schedule 10.02 ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Company s behalf on IntraLinks/IntraAgency or another relevant website, if any, to
which each Lender and the Agents have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent);  provided  that: (i) the Company shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative
Agent         
   98   

or any Lender that requests the Company to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper
copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Company shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Administrative Agent and each Lender of the posting of any such documents and provide to the
Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions ( i.e. , soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Company shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance
Certificates required by  Section 6.02(b)  to the Administrative Agent. Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to
above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Company with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
     Each Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arranger will make available to the Lenders, the
Canadian Facility Agent and the L/C Issuers materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of such Borrower hereunder (collectively,   Borrower Materials  ) by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar
electronic system (the   Platform  ) and (b) certain of the Lenders may be  public-side  Lenders ( i.e.,  Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to any Borrower or its
securities) (each, a   Public Lender  ). Each Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked  PUBLIC  which, at a
minimum, shall mean that the word  PUBLIC  shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials  PUBLIC,  the Borrowers shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, , the
Canadian Facility Agent the Arranger, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrowers or their respective securities for purposes of United States
Federal and state securities laws ( provided ,  however , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in Section  10.07 ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked
 PUBLIC  are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated  Public Investor;  and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not
marked  PUBLIC  as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated  Public Investor.        6.03 Notices.  Promptly notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:      (a) of the occurrence of any Default;   
  (b) of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;      (c) of the occurrence of any ERISA Event; and      (d) of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Company or any Subsidiary.         
   99   

Each notice pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the
Company setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Company has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to  Section 6.03(a)  shall describe with particularity any
and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.       6.04 Payment of Taxes and Claims.  Pay and
discharge as the same shall become due and payable, (a) all tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings
diligently conducted and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Company or such Subsidiary; and (b) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property not constituting a Permitted
Lien.       6.05 Preservation of Existence, Etc.  (a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good
standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by  Section 7.05  or  7.06 ; (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises
necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks,
trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.       6.06
Maintenance of Properties.  (a) Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted; (b) make all
necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect ;  and (c) use the standard of care typical in the industry in the
operation and maintenance of its facilities.       6.07 Maintenance of Insurance.  Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance
companies not Affiliates of the Company, insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts
(after giving effect to any self-insurance compatible with the following standards) as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons.       6.08 Compliance with Laws.  Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such
instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, write, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected
to have a Material Adverse Effect.       6.09 Books and Records.  (a) Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and
correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be; and (b) maintain such books of record
and account in material conformity with all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having regulatory jurisdiction over the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.         
   100   

6.10 Inspection Rights  .  Permit representatives and independent contractors of each Agent
and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers,
and independent public accountants, all at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably desired, upon reasonable advance notice to the Company;  provided ,  however , that when an Event of Default
exists either Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Company at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice.       6.11 Use of Proceeds and Letters of Credit  .  Use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions for general corporate purposes not in contravention
of any Law or of any Loan Document; and use the Letters of Credit directly or indirectly to support the potential default of any (i) performance obligations of the Company and its Subsidiaries under specific contracts with respect to
non-financial or commercial obligations, including obligations in respect of any contract bids and advance payments under any contracts, or (ii) payments of any financial contractual obligations of the Company and its Subsidiaries, including
insurance-related obligations and payment obligations under specific contracts in respect of Indebtedness undertaken by the Company or any Subsidiary; and including in each case any bank or other surety who in connection therewith issues a guarantee
or other undertaking, performance bond, surety bond or other similar instrument that covers a default of any such performance or financial obligations.       6.12 Approvals and Authorizations    Maintain all authorizations, consents, approvals, licenses, exemptions of, or filings or registrations with, any Governmental Authority, or approvals or consents of any
other Person, of or in the jurisdiction in which any Foreign Designated Borrower is organized and existing which are required in connection with the Loan Documents.       6.13   Additional Subsidiary Guarantors.  Notify the Administrative Agent at the time that any Person becomes a Material Subsidiary, and promptly thereafter (and in any event within 30 days), cause such
Person, if such Person is not a Foreign Subsidiary or a Securitization Subsidiary, to (a) become a Subsidiary Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent an accession agreement in the form of Annex 1 to the Subsidiary
Guaranty, appropriately completed, and (b) deliver to the Administrative Agent documents of the types referred to in clauses (iii) and (iv) of  Section 4.01(a)  and favorable opinions of counsel to such Person (which shall
cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in clause (a)), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.         
   101   

ARTICLE VII.        NEGATIVE COVENANTS       So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other
Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, the Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:       7.01 Liens.  Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter
acquired,  except  for the following:      (a) Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;      (b) Liens existing on the date hereof and any refinancing, renewals or extensions thereof,  provided  that the property covered thereby is not
increased and that the amount of the Indebtedness secured thereby is not increased at the time of such refinancing, renewal or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses
reasonably incurred, in connection with such refinancing and by an amount equal to any existing commitments unutilized thereunder, and  provided   further  that any such Liens securing Indebtedness with a principal or face amount exceeding
U.S.$1,000,000 shall be listed on  Schedule 7.01 ;      (c) Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by
appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person in accordance with GAAP;      (d) carriers , warehousemen s, mechanics , materialmen s, repairmen s or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or
which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person;      (e) pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers  compensation, unemployment insurance and other social
security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA or any Foreign Plan;      (f) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade
contracts and leases (other than Indebtedness), statutory obligations, surety bonds (other than bonds related to judgments or litigation), performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
     (g) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not
substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person;      (h) Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under  Section 8.01(h)  or securing appeal or other
surety bonds related to such judgments;         
   102   

(i) Liens securing Indebtedness in respect of capital leases, Synthetic Lease Obligations and purchase
money obligations for fixed or capital assets, including real estate;  provided  that (i) such Liens do not at any time encumber any property other than the property financed by such Indebtedness, and (ii) the Indebtedness secured
thereby does not exceed the cost or fair market value, whichever is lower, of the property being acquired on the date of acquisition;      (j)
the interest of a purchaser of Permitted Receivables acquired pursuant to, or any Lien on the assets of a Securitization Subsidiary granted pursuant to, one or more Permitted Securitizations,  provided  that at any time the aggregate amount of
Indebtedness incurred pursuant to Permitted Securitizations shall not exceed U.S.$100,000,000;      (k) Liens on specific tangible assets
(including real estate, but not including inventory and other current assets) acquired in any Acquisitions permitted hereunder after the date of this Agreement;  provided ,  however , that (A) such Liens existed at the time of such
Acquisition and were not created in anticipation thereof, (B) any such Lien does not by its terms cover any assets after the time of such Acquisition which were not covered immediately prior thereto, and (C) any such Lien does not by its
terms secure any Indebtedness other than Indebtedness existing immediately prior to the time of such Acquisition;      (l) Liens arising by
virtue of any contractual, statutory or common law provision relating to banker s liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with a creditor depository institution;  provided 
that (i) such deposit account is not a dedicated cash collateral account and is not subject to restrictions against access by the Company or the relevant Subsidiary in excess of those set forth by the regulations promulgated by the FRB, and
(ii) such deposit account is not intended by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to provide collateral to the depository institution with respect to otherwise unrelated obligations of the Company or any such Subsidiary to such depository
institution;      (m) Liens consisting of precautionary financing statements filed in connection with operating leases; and      (n) other Liens securing Indebtedness in aggregate principal amount not to exceed U.S.$35,000,000 at any time outstanding.       

7.02   
   Investments.  Make any Investments,  except :        (a) Investments held by the Company or such Subsidiary in the form of cash equivalents or short-term marketable securities and other non-equity Investments in the ordinary course of business as part of the Company s usual and customary
cash management policies and procedures;      (b) advances to officers, directors and employees of the Company and Subsidiaries in the ordinary
course of business for travel, entertainment, relocation and analogous ordinary business purposes;      (c) Investments of the Company in any
wholly-owned Subsidiary and Investments of any wholly-owned Subsidiary in the Company or in another wholly-owned Subsidiary;         
   103   

(d) Investments consisting of extensions of credit in the nature of accounts receivable or notes
receivable arising from the grant of trade credit in the ordinary course of business, and Investments received in satisfaction or partial satisfaction thereof from financially troubled account debtors to the extent reasonably necessary in order to
prevent or limit loss;      (e) Investments permitted by  Section 7.03  or  7.04 ;      (f) Investments described in  Schedule 5.13 ;      (g) other Investments in any Person;  provided  that such Investments shall not exceed, together with Investments under  Section 7.03(b) , the amount permitted by  Section 7.03(b) ; and      (h) Guarantees of the Company or any Subsidiary in respect of Indebtedness of the Company or any wholly-owned Subsidiary.       

7.03   
   Joint Ventures.  Make any Investments in joint ventures and non-wholly owned Subsidiaries,  except :        (a) as described in  Schedule 5.13 ; and      (b) such Investments made after the Closing Date in an aggregate amount at any time existing not exceeding 7.5% of Net Tangible Assets, determined as of the end of the then immediately preceding fiscal year,  minus  the amount of any
Investments made by any Borrower pursuant to  Section 7.02(g) .       7.04 Acquisitions.  Make any Investment in order to
consummate an Acquisition,  except  that the Company may make a Permitted Acquisition.       7.05 Fundamental Changes.  Merge,
dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person,
 except  that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom:      (a) any Subsidiary may merge with (i) the Company,
 provided  that the Company shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (ii) any one or more other Subsidiaries,  provided  that when any wholly-owned Subsidiary is merging with another Subsidiary, the wholly-owned Subsidiary
shall be the continuing or surviving Person; and      (b) any Subsidiary may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary
liquidation or otherwise) to the Company or to a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company.       

7.06   
   Dispositions.  Make any Disposition or enter into any agreement to make any Disposition, except:        (a) Dispositions of obsolete or worn out property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, in the ordinary course of business;      (b) Dispositions of inventory in the ordinary course of business;         
   104   

(c) Dispositions of equipment or real property to the extent that (i) such property is exchanged for
credit against the purchase price of similar replacement property, (ii) the proceeds of such Disposition are reasonably promptly applied to the purchase price of such replacement property, or (iii) in the case of equipment or real
property, such equipment or real property is no longer useful in or material to the continued operation of the Company s or a Subsidiary s business;      (d) Dispositions of property by any Subsidiary to the Company or to a wholly-owned Subsidiary;  provided  that if the transferor of such property is a Subsidiary Guarantor, the transferee thereof must either be
the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor;      (e) Dispositions permitted by  Section 7.05 ;      (f) a sale or transfer of Permitted Receivables pursuant to one or more Permitted Securitizations, subject to the limitations set forth in
 Section 7.01(j)  with respect to any such Permitted Securitizations; and      (g) Dispositions by the Company and its
Subsidiaries not otherwise permitted under this  Section 7.06 ;  provided  that (i) at the time of such Disposition, no Default shall exist or would result from such Disposition and (ii) the aggregate book value of all
property Disposed of in reliance on this clause (g) during the term of this Agreement shall not exceed U.S.$150,000,000.       7.07
Change in Nature of Business.  Engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related, complementary,
ancillary or incidental thereto, or any reasonable extension thereof.       7.08 Transactions with Affiliates.  Enter into any transaction
of any kind with any Affiliate of the Company, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, other than on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Company or such
Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arm s length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate.       7.09 Other Contractual
Obligations.  Enter into any Contractual Obligation (other than this Agreement or any other Loan Document) that (a) limits the ability (i) of any Subsidiary to make Restricted Payments to the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor or to
otherwise transfer property to the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, (ii) of any Subsidiary to Guarantee the Indebtedness of the Company or (iii) of the Company or any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens on
property of such Person;  provided ,  however , that this clause (iii) shall not prohibit any negative pledge incurred or provided in favor of any holder of Indebtedness in respect of capital leases, Synthetic Lease Obligations and
purchase money obligations solely to the extent any such negative pledge relates to the property financed by or the subject of such Indebtedness; or (b) requires the grant of a Lien to secure an obligation of such Person if a Lien is granted to
secure another obligation of such Person.       7.10 Use of Proceeds.  Use the proceeds of any Credit Extension, whether directly or
indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry margin         
   105   

stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or
carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose, in any case in violation of Regulation U or X of the FRB.       7.11 Changes in Accounting.  Make any material change in accounting treatment or reporting practices, except as required or permitted by GAAP, or change its fiscal year or that of any of its consolidated Subsidiaries, except to change
the fiscal year of a Subsidiary acquired in connection with a Permitted Acquisition to conform its fiscal year to the Company s.       7.12 Financial Covenants.       (a)  Consolidated Net Worth . Permit Consolidated Net Worth at any time to be less than the
sum of (a) U.S.$804,021,600, (b) an amount equal to 50% of the Consolidated Net Income earned in each full fiscal year ending after the Closing Date (with no deduction for a net loss in any such fiscal year) and (c) an amount equal to
100% of the aggregate increases in Shareholders  Equity of the Company and its Subsidiaries after the Closing Date by reason of the issuance and sale of capital stock or other equity interests of the Company or any Subsidiary (other than
issuances to the Company or a wholly-owned Subsidiary and other than proceeds received from any issue of new shares of the Company s or its Subsidiaries  common stock in connection with an employee stock option plan), including upon any
conversion of debt securities of the Company into such capital stock or other equity interests,  less  any decreases in Shareholders  Equity of the Company after the Closing Date by reason of any repurchase of shares of capital stock of
the Company (x) that are intended to be used to satisfy the Company s or a Subsidiary s obligations under an employee stock or option plan, or (y) in an aggregate number that does not exceed the number of shares issued for that
purpose in the six months prior to any such repurchase.      (b)  Consolidated Leverage Ratio . Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as
of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Company to be greater than 3.00:1.00.       ARTICLE VIII.        EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES        

8.01   
   Events of Default.  Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:        (a)  Non-Payment . Any Borrower or any other Loan Party fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, and in the currency required hereunder, the amount of any Bankers  Acceptance or any
amount of principal of any other Loan or any L/C Obligation, or (ii) within three days after the same becomes due, any fee in respect of any Bankers  Acceptance, any interest on any Loan or on any L/C Obligation, or any facility or other
fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or      (b)  Specific Covenants . The Company fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of  Section 6.01 ,  6.02 ,  6.03 ,  6.05 ,  6.10 ,  6.11 , or
 6.13  or  Article VII ; or         
   106   

(c)  Other Defaults . Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement
(not specified in subsection (a) or (b) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days; or      (d)  Representations and Warranties . Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Company or any other Loan Party herein, in any other Loan
Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect or misleading when made or deemed made; or      (e)  Cross-Default . (i) The Company or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Indebtedness or
Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated
credit arrangement) of more than the Threshold Amount, or (B) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or
relating thereto, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of
such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer
to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; or (ii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early
Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Company or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) any
Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which the Company or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by the Company or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is
greater than the Threshold Amount; or      (f)  Insolvency Proceedings, Etc.  Any Borrower, Material Subsidiary, or, if the Insolvent
Domestic Subsidiary Limit has been, or thereby is, exceeded, any other Domestic Subsidiary of the Company, institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors;
or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator,
liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days (or 90 calendar days in the case of any Foreign Subsidiary); or
any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days (or 90 calendar days in
the case of any Foreign Subsidiary), or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or         
   107   

(g)  Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment . (i) Any Borrower, Material Subsidiary, or, if the
Insolvent Domestic Subsidiary Limit has been, or thereby is, exceeded, any other Domestic Subsidiary of the Company, becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or
warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or      (h)  Judgments . There is entered against the Company or any Subsidiary (i) a final judgment or order for the payment of money in an aggregate
amount exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be
expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) in the case of a money judgment, such judgment
remains unpaid and there is a period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or      (i)  ERISA . (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected
to result in liability of the Company under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount, or (ii) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due,
after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount; or
     (j)  Invalidity of Loan Documents . Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as
expressly permitted hereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or any Loan Party or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or any Loan Party
denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document; or      (k)  Change of Control . There occurs any Change of Control with respect to the Company.       8.02
Remedies Upon Event of Default.  If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:      (a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans, the commitment of each Tranche 2 Lender to accept or discount Bankers  Acceptances and any
obligation of the L/C Issuers to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;      (b) declare an amount equal to the face amount at maturity of all Bankers  Acceptances which are unmatured, the unpaid principal amount of all other outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts
owing or payable hereunder or         
   108   

under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of
any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers;      (c) require that the Company provide Tranche 1 Cash Collateral for
the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof);      (d) require that the Company or other applicable Borrower
provide Tranche 2 Cash Collateral for the Bankers  Acceptances (in an amount equal to the Outstanding Amount thereof); and      (e)
exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents or applicable law;       provided ,  however , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any
obligation of the L/C Issuers to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the amount equal to the face amount at maturity of all Bankers  Acceptances which are unmatured, the unpaid principal amount of all other outstanding
Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of the Company to provide Tranche 1 Cash Collateral for the L/C Obligations and Tranche 2 Cash Collateral for the Bankers 
Acceptances as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender; and  provided   further ,  however , that neither the Required Tranche 1 Lenders nor the
Tranche 2 Lenders shall have any power or authority under this  Section 8.02  separate or apart from that of the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders with respect to all Loans and other Obligations.       8.03 Application of Funds.  After the exercise of remedies provided for in  Section 8.02  (or after the Loans have automatically become
immediately due and payable and Tranche 1 Cash Collateral for the L/C Obligations and Tranche 2 Cash Collateral for the Bankers  Acceptances shall have automatically been required to be provided as set forth in the proviso to
 Section 8.02 ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:       First , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Agents and amounts payable under  Article III ) payable
to the Agents in their capacities as such;       Second , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and
other amounts (other than principal, interest and Letter of Credit fees under  Section 2.03(i) ) payable to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and the L/C Issuers
(including fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of any Lender or the L/C Issuers) and amounts payable under  Article III ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause  Second 
payable to them;         
   109   

Third , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid Letter of
Credit fees under  Section 2.03(i)  and interest on the Loans, L/C Borrowings and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuers in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause  Third  payable to
them;       Fourth , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably
among the Lenders and the L/C Issuers in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause  Fourth  held by them;       Fifth , to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuers, as Tranche 1 Cash Collateral for that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit; and       Last , the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been paid in full, to the Company or as otherwise required by Law.      Subject to  Section 2.03(c) , amounts used as Tranche 1 Cash Collateral for the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause  Fifth 
above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur. If any amount remains on deposit as Tranche 1 Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be
applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.       ARTICLE IX.        AGENTS        9.01 Appointment and
Authority.  Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, and each of the Tranche 2 Lenders hereby irrevocably
appoints Scotiabank to act on its behalf as the Canadian Facility Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, and each of the Lenders authorizes each of the Agents to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are
delegated to the Applicable Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Agents, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers,
and neither any Borrower nor any other Loan Party shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.       9.02 Rights
as a Lender.  The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender, and the Person serving as the Canadian Facility Agent hereunder shall have the same
rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender. Each such Person and may exercise the same rights and powers as though it were not the Administrative Agent or the Canadian Facility Agent, and the term  Lender ,
 Lenders ,  Tranche 1 Lender ,  Tranche 1 Lenders ,  Tranche 2 Lender  or  Tranche 2 Lenders  shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person
serving as the Administrative Agent or Canadian Facility Agent, as the case may be, hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory
capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrowers or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent or Canadian Facility Agent hereunder and without any duty to account
therefor to the Lenders.         
   110   

9.03 Exculpatory Provisions.  No Agent shall have any duties or obligations except those expressly
set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Applicable Agent:      (a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;      (b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the
Applicable Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents),  provided  that the Applicable
Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Applicable Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and      (c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable
for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any of the Borrowers or any of their respective Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Applicable Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
     The Applicable Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the
Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Applicable Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in  Sections 10.01  and  8.02 ) or
(ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Applicable Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Applicable Agent by the other
Agent, the Company, a Lender or an L/C Issuer.      The Applicable Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire
into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection
herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or
genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in  Article IV  or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly
required to be delivered to the Applicable Agent.       9.04 Reliance by Agents.  Each Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not
incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be
genuine and to have been signed, sent         
   111   

or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. Each Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by
telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that
by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or an L/C Issuer, the Applicable Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or L/C Issuer unless the Applicable Agent shall have received notice to the contrary
from such Lender or L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. Each Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Loan Parties), independent accountants and other experts selected by it,
and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.       9.05 Delegation of Duties.  The Applicable Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Applicable
Agent. The Applicable Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent
and to the Related Parties of the Applicable Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Applicable Agent.
      9.06 Resignation of Agents.  (a) Each Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the L/C Issuers, the
other Agent and the Company.      (b) Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation of the Administrative Agent, the Required Lenders shall
have the right, in consultation with the Company, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so
appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C
Issuers, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above;  provided  that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then
such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (except that in the
case of any collateral security held by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders or the L/C Issuers under any of the Loan Documents, the retiring Administrative Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a
successor Administrative Agent is appointed) and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and the L/C Issuers directly, until
such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section.      (c) Upon receipt of any
such notice of resignation of the Canadian Facility Agent, the Required Tranche 2 Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Company, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in Canada, or an Affiliate of any such
bank with         
   112   

an office in Canada. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Tranche 2 Lenders and shall have
accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Canadian Facility Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Canadian Facility Agent may on behalf of the Tranche 2 Lenders, appoint a successor Canadian Facility Agent
meeting the qualifications set forth above. Any appointment of a successor Canadian Facility Agent shall be subject to the consent of the Administrative Agent (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed). If the Canadian Facility Agent shall notify
the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Tranche 2 Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Canadian
Facility Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Canadian Facility Agent on behalf of the Tranche 2 Lenders under any of
the Loan Documents, the retiring Canadian Facility Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Canadian Facility Agent is appointed) and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be
made by, to or through the Canadian Facility Agent shall instead be made by or to each Tranche 2 Lender directly or by, to or through the Administrative Agent, until such time as the Required Tranche 2 Lenders appoint a successor Canadian Facility
Agent as provided for above in this Section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and providing the Canadian Facility Agent is a Schedule II Bank, the Canadian Facility Agent may, at any time, resign as Canadian Facility Agent and appoint as successor
Canadian Facility Agent a Schedule III Bank that is an Affiliate of the Canadian Facility Agent.      (d) Upon the acceptance of a
successor s appointment as the Applicable Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Applicable Agent, and the retiring Applicable Agent
shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Company to a successor Applicable Agent shall be
the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor. After the retiring Applicable Agent s resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and
 Section 10.04  shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Applicable Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring
Applicable Agent was acting as Applicable Agent.      (e) Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section
shall also constitute its resignation as L/C Issuer and U.S. Swing Line Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor s appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (i) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the
rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer and U.S. Swing Line Lender, (ii) the retiring L/C Issuer and U.S. Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the
other Loan Documents, and (iii) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring L/C
Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit.         
   113   

(f) Any resignation by Scotiabank as Canadian Facility Agent pursuant to this Section shall also
constitute its resignation as Canadian Swing Line Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor s appointment as Canadian Facility Agent hereunder, (i) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers,
privileges and duties of the retiring Canadian Swing Line Lender, and (ii) the retiring Canadian Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents.       9.07 Non-Reliance on Agents and Other Lenders.  Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers acknowledges that it has, independently and without
reliance upon the Agents or any other Lenders or L/C Issuers or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each of
the Lenders and the L/C Issuers also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or L/C Issuer or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it
shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
      9.08 No Other Duties, Etc  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, no  syndication agent,   documentation
agent,   co-agent,   book manager,   lead manager,   arranger,   lead arranger  or  co-arranger  listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under
this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, Canadian Facility Agent, a Lender or an L/C Issuer hereunder.       9.09 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim.  In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy,
reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein
expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on any Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise      (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations
and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable
compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent under
 Sections 2.03(i)  and  (j) ,  2.09  and  10.04 ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and      (b) to
collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;         
   114   

and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial
proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and each L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C
Issuers, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under
 Sections 2.09  and  10.04 .      Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or
consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or L/C Issuer or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect
of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.       9.10 Guaranty Matters.  The Lenders irrevocably authorize the Administrative
Agent, at its option and in its discretion, to release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty, and to release any Foreign Designated Borrower from its obligations under the Foreign Designated Borrower Guaranty,
if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder or, in the case of a Foreign Designated Borrower, if such Foreign Designated Borrower ceases to be Borrower hereunder. Upon request by the Administrative Agent
at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agent s authority to release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty or any Foreign Designated Borrower from its obligations under
the Foreign Designated Borrower Guaranty pursuant to this  Section 9.10 .       ARTICLE X.        MISCELLANEOUS        10.01 Amendments,
Etc.  No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Company or any other Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and
the Company or the applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Agents, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given;  provided ,
 however , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:      (a) waive any condition set forth in  Section 4.01(a)  without
the written consent of each Lender;      (b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant
to  Section 8.02 ), or increase or extend the obligation of any Tranche 2 Lender to accept or discount Bankers  Acceptances, without the written consent of such Lender;      (c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders
(or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;         
   115   

(d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or
(subject to clause (iv) of the second proviso to this  Section 10.01 ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document, or change the manner of computation of any financial ratio (including any change in
any applicable defined term) used in determining the Applicable Tranche 1 Rate or the Tranche 2 Applicable Rate, as the case may be, that would result in a reduction of any interest rate on any Loan or any fee payable hereunder without the written
consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;  provided ,  however , that (i) only the consent of the Required Tranche 1 Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of  Default Rate  or to waive any obligation of
any Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate, in respect of any payments to the Tranche 1 Lenders, and (ii) only the consent of the Required Tranche 2 Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of  Default Rate  or to
waive any obligation of any Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate, in respect of any payments to the Tranche 2 Lenders;      (e) change
 Section 2.13  or  Section 8.03  in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;      (f) amend  Section 1.07  or the definition of  Alternative Currency  without the written consent of each Tranche 1 Lender;
     (g) except as otherwise provided in this  Section 10.01 , amend, waive or modify  Section 2.01 , any notice
requirements or minimum or integral amounts with respect to prepayments of the Tranche 1 Loans or reductions of the Tranche 1 Commitments, any rights or obligations of the Tranche 1 Lenders under  Section 2.04 , any provision of  Article
III  pertaining solely to the rights or obligations of the Tranche 1 Lenders, or any other provision of this Agreement providing for or requiring the consent of the Required Tranche 1 Lenders, without the written consent of the Required Tranche 1
Lenders (and, for the avoidance of doubt, the written consent of the Required Tranche 1 Lenders shall be sufficient to approve any amendment, waiver or modification described in this Section  10.01(g) );      (h) except as otherwise provided in this  Section 10.01 , amend, waive or modify  Section 2.02 ,  Section 2.05 , any notice
requirements or minimum or integral amounts with respect to prepayments of the Tranche 2 Loans or reductions of the Tranche 2 Commitments, any provision of  Article III  pertaining solely to the rights or obligations of the Tranche 2 Lenders,
or any other provision of this Agreement providing for or requiring the consent of the Required Tranche 2 Lenders, without the written consent of the Required Tranche 2 Lenders (and, for the avoidance of doubt, the written consent of the Required
Tranche 2 Lenders shall be sufficient to approve any amendment, waiver or modification described in this  Section 10.01(h) );      (i) change any provision of this Section or the definition of  Required Tranche 1 Lenders  or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Tranche 1 Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any
rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Tranche 1 Lender (and, for the avoidance of doubt, the written consent of each Tranche 1 Lender shall be sufficient to approve any
amendment, waiver or modification described in this  Section 10.01(i) );         
   116   

(j) change any provision of this Section or the definition of  Required Tranche 2 Lenders  or
any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Tranche 2 Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each
Tranche 2 Lender (and, for the avoidance of doubt, the written consent of each Tranche 2 Lender shall be sufficient to approve any amendment, waiver or modification described in this  Section 10.01(j) );      (k) change any provision of this Section or the definition of  Required Lenders  or any other provision hereof specifying the number or
percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; or      (l) subject to  Section 9.10 , release the Company from the Company Guaranty or any Subsidiary Guarantor from the Subsidiary Guaranty, or any
Foreign Designated Borrower from the Foreign Designated Borrower Guaranty without the written consent of each Lender;      and,  provided   further ,
that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the directly affected L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of such L/C Issuer under this Agreement or any Issuer
Document relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by a Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of
such Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative
Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; (iv) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Canadian Facility Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the
Canadian Facility Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (v) the Agent/BAS Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto, and an Issuer Fee Letter may
be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or
consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.       10.02
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication.       (a)  General . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly
permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified
or registered mail or sent by facsimile as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:      (i) if to the Borrowers, the Agents, the L/C Issuers or the Swing Line Lenders, to the address, facsimile number, electronic mail address
or telephone number specified for such Person on  Schedule 10.02 ; and         
   117   

(ii) if to any Lender, to the address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or
telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.      Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered
mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the
opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).      (b)  Electronic Communications . Notices and other communications to the Canadian Facility Agent, the Swing Line Lenders, the Lenders and the L/C
Issuers hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent,  provided  that the foregoing shall not apply to
notices to the Canadian Facility Agent, any Swing Line Lender, any Lender or any L/C Issuer pursuant to  Article II  if such Lender, Swing Line Lender or L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of
receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Company may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures
approved by it,  provided  that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.      Unless the
Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender s receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the  return
receipt requested  function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement),  provided  that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication
shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the
intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.      (c)  The Platform . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED  AS IS  AND  AS AVAILABLE.  THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE
ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY
WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event
shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the   Agent Parties  ) have any liability to any Borrower, the Canadian Facility Agent, any Lender, Swing Line Lender, any L/C Issuer or any other Person for
losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of any Borrower s or the Administrative Agent s transmission         
   118   

of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or
expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party;  provided ,  however , that in no event shall any
Agent Party have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender, any Swing Line Lender, any L/C Issuer or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).      (d)  Change of Address, Etc . Each of the Borrowers, the Agents, the L/C Issuers and the Swing Line Lenders may change its address, facsimile or
telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, facsimile or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Company,
the Agents, the L/C Issuers and the Swing Line Lenders. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone
number, facsimile number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender, and each Tranche 2 Lender agrees to notify the Canadian Facility Agent from time to
time to ensure that the Canadian Facility Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, facsimile number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate
wire instructions for such Tranche 2 Lender.      (e)  Reliance by Agents, L/C Issuers, Swing Line Lenders and Lenders .   The
Agents, the L/C Issuers, the Swing Line Lenders and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices and U.S. Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower even
if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any
confirmation thereof. The Company shall indemnify the Agents, the L/C Issuers, the Swing Line Lenders and the Lenders and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person
on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Applicable Agent may be recorded by the Applicable Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such
recording.       10.03 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.  No failure by any Lender or either Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such
Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or
the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.       10.04 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.       (a)  Costs and Expenses . The Company shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents and their respective Affiliates (including the reasonable fees,         
   119   

charges and disbursements of counsel for the Agents), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities
provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions
contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the L/C Issuers in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment
thereunder and (iii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents, any Lender or any L/C Issuer (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Agents, any Lender or any L/C Issuer), and shall pay all fees and time
charges for attorneys who may be employees of the Agents, any Lender or any L/C Issuer, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights
under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of
Credit.      (b)  Indemnification by the Company . The Company shall indemnify the Agents (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender, each
L/C Issuer, and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an   Indemnitee  ) against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities
and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnitee from all fees and time charges and disbursements for attorneys who may be employees of any
Indemnitee, incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by any Borrower or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any
other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby,
or, in the case of the Agents (and any sub-agent thereof) and their Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom
(including any refusal by any L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), or (iii) any actual or
prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Company or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether
any Indemnitee is a party thereto;  provided  that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Company or any other Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in
bad faith of such Indemnitee s obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Company or such other Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction.      (c)  Reimbursement by Lenders . To the extent that the Company for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount
required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by         
   120   

it to either Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), any L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender
severally agrees to pay to the Applicable Agent (or any such sub-agent), such L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender s Pro Rata Share (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity
payment is sought) of such unpaid amount,  provided  that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Applicable Agent (or any such
sub-agent) or such L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Applicable Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders
under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of  Section 2.12(d) .      (d)  Waiver of Consequential Damages,
Etc.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no Borrower shall assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or
actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the
use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications,
electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.      (e)  Payments . All amounts due under this  Section 10.04  shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.      (f)  Survival . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Agents, the L/C Issuers, the replacement of any Lender, the
termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.       10.05 Payments Set
Aside.  To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of any Borrower is made to an Agent, any L/C Issuer or any Lender, or an Agent, any L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of set-off, and such payment or the proceeds of such set-off
or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by such Agent, such L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a
trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and
continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such set-off had not occurred, and (b) each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers severally agrees to pay to each Agent upon demand (without duplication) its applicable
share of any amount so recovered from or repaid by such Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, in the
applicable currency of such recovery or payment. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
        
   121   

10.06 Successors and Assigns.       (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns
permitted hereby, except that no Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Agents and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or
obligations hereunder except (i) to an Eligible Assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, or
(iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this
Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and,
to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Agents, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.      (b) Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more Eligible Assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including
all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this subsection (b), participations in L/C Obligations and in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it);  provided  that:      (i) except in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender s Commitment and the Loans at the time
owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to a Lender, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the
Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the
Administrative Agent or, if  Trade Date  is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than U.S.$5,000,000, unless each of the Administrative Agent, the Canadian Facility Agent (in the case of an
assignment by a Tranche 2 Lender) and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); ;  provided ,  however , that concurrent
assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes
of determining whether such minimum amount has been met;      (ii) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a
proportionate part of all the assigning Lender s rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not apply to rights in respect of Swing Line Loans and
shall not prohibit any Lender from assigning all or a portion of its rights and obligations among separate tranches on a non- pro rata  basis;         
   122   

(iii) any assignment of a Tranche 1 Commitment must be approved by the Administrative
Agent, each L/C Issuer with outstanding Letters of Credit and the U.S. Swing Line Lender unless the Person that is the proposed assignee is itself a Lender (whether or not the proposed assignee would otherwise qualify as an Eligible Assignee);
     (iv) any assignment of a Tranche 2 Commitment must be approved by the Administrative Agent, the Canadian Facility Agent and
the Canadian Swing Line Lender unless the Person that is the proposed assignee is itself a Lender (whether or not the proposed assignee would otherwise qualify as an Eligible Assignee); and      (v) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent (and the Canadian Facility Agent in the case of
an assignment by a Tranche 2 Lender) an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount, if any, required as set forth in  Schedule 10.06  (for the account of the Administrative Agent), and the Eligible
Assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire; and, in the case of an assignment by a Tranche 2 Lender (if the assignment is not a Schedule II to Schedule III Assignment)
certification as to exemption from withholding tax for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such processing and recordation fee shall not apply in respect of a Schedule II
to Schedule III Assignment.      Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Agents pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the
effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the Eligible Assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a
Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption
covering all of the assigning Lender s rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of  Sections 3.01 ,  3.04 ,  3.05  and
 10.04  with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment). Upon request, each Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a
Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection
(d) of this Section.      (c) The Administrative Agent acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at the
Administrative Agent s Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations
owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time, and, in the case of an assignment by a Tranche 2 Lender, the Canadian Facility Agents acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at the Canadian
Facility Agent s Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses         
   123   

of the Tranche 2 Lenders, and the Tranche 2 Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Tranche 2 Loans owing to, each
Tranche 2 Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (each a   Register  ). The entries in a Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Canadian Facility Agent and the Lenders may treat
each Person whose name is recorded in the applicable Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. Upon request by the Administrative Agent from time to time,
the Canadian Facility Agent shall deliver a copy of the Register in respect of Tranche 2 Lenders and Tranche 2 Commitments to the Administrative Agent. Each Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers, the L/C Issuers and any Lender,
at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. In addition, at any time that a request for a consent for a material or substantive change to the Loan Documents is pending, any Lender may request and receive from the
Applicable Agent a copy of the applicable Register.      (d) Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, any Borrower,
the Canadian Facility Agent or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Company or any of the Company s Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a   Participant  ) in all or a
portion of such Lender s rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender s participations in L/C Obligations and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it);
 provided  that (i) such Lender s obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the
Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Canadian Facility Agent, the L/C Issuers and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender s rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this
Agreement;  provided  that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to
 Section 10.01  that affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, each Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of  Sections 3.01 ,  3.04  and  3.05  to the same
extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of  Section 10.04  as though
it were a Lender,  provided  such Participant agrees to be subject to  Section 2.13  as though it were a Lender.      (e) A
Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under  Section 3.01  or  3.04  than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale
of the participation to such Participant is made with the Company s prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of  Section 3.01  unless the Company is
notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with  Section 3.01(e)  as though it were a Lender. A Participant in a Tranche 2 Lender s rights and/or
obligations under this Agreement that is not a Schedule I Bank, a Schedule II Bank, a Schedule III Bank or other Person who is a resident of Canada or otherwise not subject to withholding tax for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) and
the regulations promulgated thereunder shall not be entitled to the benefits of  Section 3.01 .         
   124   

(f) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights
under this Agreement (including under its Note(s), if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank;  provided  that no such pledge or assignment shall release such
Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.      (g)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Bank of America assigns all of its Tranche 1 Commitment and Tranche 1 Loans pursuant to subsection (b) above, Bank of America may, (i) upon 30 days  notice to
the Company and the Tranche 1 Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer and/or (ii) upon 30 days  notice to the Company, resign as U.S. Swing Line Lender. In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or U.S. Swing Line Lender, the Company shall
be entitled to appoint from among the Tranche 1 Lenders a successor L/C Issuer or U.S. Swing Line Lender hereunder;  provided ,  however , that no failure by the Company to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Bank of
America as L/C Issuer or U.S. Swing Line Lender, as the case may be. If Bank of America resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of an L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding
as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Tranche 1 Lenders to make Base Rate Tranche 1 Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts
pursuant to  Section 2.03(c) ). If Bank of America resigns as U.S. Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the U.S. Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to U.S. Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as
of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Tranche 1 Lenders to make Base Rate Tranche 1 Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding U.S. Swing Line Loans pursuant to  Section 2.04(c) . Upon the
appointment of a successor L/C Issuer and/or U.S. Swing Line Lender, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer or U.S. Swing Line Lender, as the case
may be, and (b) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to Bank of America to effectively
assume the obligations of Bank of America with respect to such Letters of Credit.      (h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein, if at any time Scotiabank assigns all of its Tranche 2 Commitment and Tranche 2 Loans pursuant to subsection (b) above, Scotiabank may, upon 30 days  notice to the Company and each Canadian Swing Line Borrower, resign as Canadian
Swing Line Lender. In the event of any such resignation as Canadian Swing Line Lender, the Company shall be entitled to appoint from among the Tranche 2 Lenders a successor Canadian Swing Line Lender hereunder;  provided ,  however , that
no failure by the Company to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Scotiabank as Canadian Swing Line Lender. If Scotiabank resigns as Canadian Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Canadian Swing Line Lender
provided for hereunder with respect to Canadian Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Tranche 2 Lenders to make Canadian Prime Rate Loans or fund risk
participations in outstanding Canadian Swing Line Loans pursuant to  Section 2.02(j) . Upon the appointment of a successor Canadian Swing Line Lender, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers,
privileges and duties of the retiring Canadian Swing Line Lender.         
   125   

(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no consent of the Company or Agents or
other requirements in this  Section 10.06  shall be required to be satisfied in connection with the sale or discount of a Bankers  Acceptance by a Tranche 2 Lender as contemplated by  Section 2.05(f)(iv) .      (j) The words  execution,   signed,   signature,  and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed
to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case
may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the
Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.       10.07 Confidentiality.  Each of the Agents, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders agrees to maintain
the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates  directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being
understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority
(including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party
hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder,
(f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this
Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to a Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Company or (h) to the extent such Information
(x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to either Agent, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other
than the Company.      For purposes of this  Section 10.07 ,   Information   means all information received from the
Company or any Subsidiary relating to the Company or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to either Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure
by the Company or any Subsidiary,  provided  that, in the case of information received from the Company or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required
to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as
such Person would accord to its own confidential information.      Each of the Agents, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers acknowledges that
(a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Company or a         
   126   

Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public
information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.       10.08 Set-off.  If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, each L/C Issuer and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the
fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by
such Lender, such L/C Issuer or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Borrower or any other Loan Party against any and all of the obligations of such Borrower or such Loan Party now or hereafter existing under this Agreement
or any other Loan Document to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or such L/C Issuer shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of such Borrower or
such Loan Party may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or such L/C Issuer different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender, each L/C Issuer
and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, such L/C Issuer or their respective Affiliates may have. Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers
agrees to notify the Company and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application,  provided  that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.       10.09 Interest Rate Limitation.       (a)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the   Maximum
Rate  ). If an Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Company. In
determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by an Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an
expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated
term of the Obligations hereunder.      (b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing and notwithstanding any provision to the contrary
contained in this Agreement, and to the extent permitted by applicable law, the covenant of the Borrowers to pay interest at the rates provided herein shall not merge in any judgment relating to any obligation of the Borrowers to the Lenders or the
Agents and any provision of the Interest Act (Canada) or Judgment Interest Act (Alberta) which restricts any rate of interest set forth herein shall be inapplicable to this Agreement and is hereby waived by the Borrowers. Additionally, in no event
shall the aggregate  interest  (as defined in Section 347 of the Criminal Code, Revised Statutes of Canada, 1985, C. 46) payable by any Borrower under this Agreement in respect of the Tranche 2 Loans or Canadian Swing Line Loans
exceed the effective annual rate of interest on the  credit advanced  (as defined in that section) under this         
   127   

Agreement lawfully permitted under that section and, if any payment, collection or demand pursuant to this Agreement in
respect of  interest  (as defined in that section) is determined to be contrary to the provisions of that section, such payment, collection or demand shall be deemed to have been made by mutual mistake of such Borrower and the Tranche 2
Lenders and the amount of such payment or collection shall be refunded to such Borrower; for purposes of this Agreement the effective annual rate of interest shall be determined in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practices and
principles over the term of the applicable credit advanced on the basis of annual compounding of the lawfully permitted rate of interest and, in the event of dispute, a certificate of a Fellow of the Canadian Institute of Actuaries appointed by the
Canadian Facility Agent will be conclusive for the purposes of such determination.       10.10 Counterparts.  This Agreement may be
executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract.       10.11 Integration; Effectiveness.  This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the
subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in  Section 4.01 , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have
been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a
signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement       10.12
Survival of Representations and Warranties.  All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the
execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by each Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by either Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding
that either Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied
or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.       10.13 Severability.  If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan
Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the
parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions.
The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.       10.14 Replacement of Lenders.  If any Lender requests compensation under  Section 3.04 , or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender
pursuant to  Section 3.01 , or if any Lender         
   128   

is a Defaulting Lender, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender, the Canadian
Facility Agent (in the case of any assignment of any Tranche 2 Commitment, Tranche 2 Loans or participations in Canadian Swing Line Loans) and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with
and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by,  Section 10.06 ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations
(which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment),  provided  that:      (a) the Company shall have paid (or
caused a Designated Subsidiary to pay) to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in  Section 10.06(b) ;      (b) such
Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any
amounts under  Section 3.05 ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Company or applicable Designated Subsidiary (in the case of all other amounts);      (c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under  Section 3.04  or payments required to be made pursuant to
 Section 3.01 , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;      (d) any such assignment
to a Lender of any Tranche 2 Commitment, Tranche 2 Loans or participations in Canadian Swing Line Loans shall be made only to a Schedule I Bank, a Schedule II Bank, a Schedule III Bank or another Person who is a resident of Canada or
otherwise not subject to withholding tax for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) and the regulations promulgated thereunder; and      (e)
such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.      A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior
thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Company to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.       10.15 Governing Law.       (a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE
LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.      (b) ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT MAY BE BROUGHT
IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK OR OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF SUCH STATE, AND BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT, EACH OF THE BORROWERS, THE AGENTS AND THE LENDERS CONSENTS, FOR ITSELF AND IN RESPECT OF ITS
PROPERTY, TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THOSE COURTS. EACH BORROWER, EACH AGENT AND EACH LENDER IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION, INCLUDING ANY         
   129   

OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OR BASED ON THE GROUNDS OF  FORUM NON CONVENIENS , WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER
HAVE TO THE BRINGING OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH JURISDICTION IN RESPECT OF ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR OTHER DOCUMENT RELATED THERETO. EACH BORROWER, EACH AGENT AND EACH LENDER WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS,
WHICH MAY BE MADE BY ANY OTHER MEANS PERMITTED BY THE LAW OF SUCH STATE.      (c) EACH DESIGNATED BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY APPOINTS THE
COMPANY AS ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT WITH ALL POWERS NECESSARY TO RECEIVE ON ITS BEHALF SERVICE OF COPIES OF THE SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT AND ANY OTHER PROCESS WHICH MAY BE SERVED IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE LOAN DOCUMENTS
IN ANY OF SUCH COURTS IN AND OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. SUCH SERVICE MAY BE MADE BY MAILING OR DELIVERING A COPY OF SUCH PROCESS TO A DESIGNATED BORROWER IN CARE OF THE COMPANY AT ITS ADDRESS FOR NOTICES PROVIDED FOR IN  SECTION 10.02 , AND
EACH DESIGNATED BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AUTHORIZES AND DIRECTS THE COMPANY TO ACCEPT SUCH SERVICE ON ITS BEHALF AND AGREES THAT THE FAILURE OF THE COMPANY TO GIVE ANY NOTICE OF ANY SUCH SERVICE TO SUCH DESIGNATED BORROWER SHALL NOT IMPAIR OR
AFFECT THE VALIDITY OF SUCH SERVICE OR OF ANY JUDGMENT RENDERED IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING BASED THEREON. THE COMPANY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY ACCEPTS SUCH APPOINTMENT AS PROCESS AGENT.       10.16 Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury.  EACH PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT HEREBY EXPRESSLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY CLAIM, DEMAND,
ACTION OR CAUSE OF ACTION ARISING UNDER ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH OR RELATED OR INCIDENTAL TO THE DEALINGS OF THE PARTIES HERETO OR ANY OF THEM WITH RESPECT TO ANY LOAN DOCUMENT, OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO, IN EACH CASE
WHETHER NOW EXISTING OR HEREAFTER ARISING, AND WHETHER FOUNDED IN CONTRACT OR TORT OR OTHERWISE; AND EACH PARTY HEREBY AGREES AND CONSENTS THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM, DEMAND, ACTION OR CAUSE OF ACTION SHALL BE DECIDED BY COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY, AND
THAT ANY PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY FILE AN ORIGINAL COUNTERPART OR A COPY OF THIS SECTION WITH ANY COURT AS WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF THE CONSENT OF THE SIGNATORIES HERETO TO THE WAIVER OF THEIR RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY.       10.17 Judgment Currency  .  If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any
other Loan Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Applicable Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business
Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of each Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to either Agent or the Lenders hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency
(the   Judgment Currency  ) other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with         
   130   

the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the   Agreement Currency  ), be discharged only to the extent
that on the Business Day following receipt by the Applicable Agent of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, such Agent may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency. If
the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the such Agent from any Borrower in the Agreement Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify
such Agent or the Person to whom such obligation was owing against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to such Agent in such currency, such Agent agrees to return the amount of any
excess to such Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).       10.18 USA PATRIOT Act Notice. 
Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L.
107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the   Act  ), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrowers, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information
that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify such Borrower in accordance with the Act.       10.19
English Language.  The Borrowers expressly require that this document and all documents accessory hereto be drawn up in English and each Agent and each Lender, because of the customer s requirement and by making such documents available to
the customer in the English language, expresses the same requirement.  Les Emprunteurs requi rent express ment que ce document et tous les documents qui s y rapportent soient r dig s en langue anglaise et chaque
Mondataire et chaque Pr teur,   cause de cette exigence du client, exprime la m me volont  en faisant en sorte que les documents en langue anglaise soient   la disposition du client.        10.20 Existing Credit Agreement.       (a)
This Agreement is intended to amend, restate and supersede the Existing Credit Agreement, without novation, with the Commitments set forth herein and the Lenders party hereto. On the Closing Date, the Lenders party to the Existing Credit Agreement,
as amended and restated hereby, shall be the Lenders listed on the signature pages hereof and shall have the respective Commitments in the amounts set forth in  Schedules 2.01  and  2.02 . Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
on the Closing Date, any Lenders party to the Existing Credit Agreement not listed on the signature pages hereof shall cease to be Lenders, and each Lender listed on the signature pages hereof not previously party to the Existing Credit Agreement
shall be and become a Lender hereunder and shall have all of the rights and be obligated to perform all of the obligations of a Lender hereunder to the extent of its Commitment(s).      (b) On the Closing Date, (i) all Loans outstanding under the Existing Credit Agreement shall be Loans outstanding hereunder, and (ii) all
Existing Letters of Credit outstanding under the Existing Credit Agreement shall be Letters of Credit outstanding hereunder.         
   131   

(c) Each Borrower hereby ratifies, affirms and acknowledges all of its Obligations in respect of the
Existing Credit Agreement, as amended and restated hereby, and the related documents and agreements delivered by them thereunder, including all outstanding Existing Letters of Credit and related Issuer Documents.      (d) All previously outstanding promissory notes under the Existing Credit Agreement will be deemed cancelled upon the occurrence of the Closing Date and
the issuance of the Notes hereunder.      (e) Those Lenders party hereto which are also party to the Existing Credit Agreement hereby waive any
prior notice requirement under the Existing Credit Agreement with respect to the termination of commitments thereunder and the making of any prepayments thereunder.       [remainder of page intentionally left blank]          
   132   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the
date first above written.        

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP, INC.    

By:  
     
    /s/ JOHN W. PROSSER, JR.    
 
  Name:  
     
  John W. Prosser, Jr.   
 
  Title:  
     
  Executive Vice President: Finance and Administration   

JACOBS CANADA INC.    

By:  
     
    /s/ JOHN W. PROSSER, JR.    
 
  Name:  
     
  John W. Prosser, Jr.   
 
  Title:  
     
  Treasurer   

JACOBS FRANCE S.A.S.    

By:  
     
    /s/ JOHN W. PROSSER, JR.    
 
  Name:  
     
  John W. Prosser, Jr.   
 
  Title:  
     
  Attorney-In-Fact   

GIBB HOLDINGS LIMITED    

By:  
     
    /s/ JOHN W. PROSSER, JR.    
 
  Name:  
     
  John W. Prosser, Jr.   
 
  Title:  
     
  Attorney-In-Fact   

JACOBS U.K. HOLDINGS LIMITED    

By:  
     
    /s/ JOHN W. PROSSER, JR.    
 
  Name:  
     
  John W. Prosser, Jr.   
 
  Title:  
     
  Attorney-In-Fact   

Page S-1   

JACOBS ENGINEERING U.K. LIMITED    

By:  
     
    /s/ JOHN W. PROSSER, JR.    
 
  Name:  
     
  John W. Prosser, Jr.   
 
  Title:  
     
  Attorney-In-Fact   

JACOBSGIBB LIMITED    

By:  
     
    /s/ JOHN W. PROSSER, JR.    
 
  Name:  
     
  John W. Prosser, Jr.   
 
  Title:  
     
  Attorney-In-Fact   

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,  as   
 
  Administrative Agent   

By:  
     
    /s/ BRENDA H. LITTLE    
 
  Name:  
     
  Brenda H. Little   
 
  Title:  
     
  Assistant Vice President   

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA,  as   
 
  Canadian Facility Agent   

By:  
     
    /s/ JAMES RHEE    
 
  Name:  
     
  James Rhee   
 
  Title:  
     
  Director   

By:  
     
    /s/ ROB KLEINMAN    
 
  Name:  
     
  Rob Kleinman   
 
  Title:  
     
  Associate   

Page S-2   

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,  as a Tranche 1     Lender, L/C Issuer and U.s. Swing Line Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ ROBERT W. TROUTMAN    
 
  Name:  
     
  Robert W. Troutman   
 
  Title:  
     
  Managing Director   

THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA,  as   
 
  Tranche 2 Lender and as Canadian Swing Line   
 
  Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ JAMES RHEE    
 
  Name:  
     
  James Rhee   
 
  Title:  
     
  Director   

By:  
     
    /s/ ROB KLEINMAN    
 
  Name:  
     
  Rob Kleinman   
 
  Title:  
     
  Associate   

BNP PARIBAS,  as a Tranche 1 Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ BERNARD DIGEON    
 
  Name:  
     
  Bernard Digeon   
 
  Title:  
     
  Managing Director   

By:  
     
    /s/ JAMIE DILLON    
 
  Name:  
     
  Jamie Dillon   
 
  Title:  
     
  Managing Director   

Page S-3   

WACHOVIA BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,  as a Tranche 1 Lender and as L/C Issuer   

By:  
     
    /s/ JOHN G. TAYLOR    
 
  Name:  
     
  John G. Taylor   
 
  Title:  
     
  Vice President   

THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC,  as a Tranche 1 Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ BELINDA WHEELER    
 
  Name:  
     
  Belinda Wheeler   
 
  Title:  
     
  Vice President   

U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,  as a Tranche 1 Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ JANET JORDA    
 
  Name:  
     
  Janet Jordan   
 
  Title:  
     
  Vice President   

UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A. ,  as a Tranche 1 Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ PETER THOMPSON    
 
  Name:  
     
  Peter Thompson   
 
  Title:  
     
  Vice President   

Page S-4   

HARRIS N.A.,  as a Tranche 1 Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ JOANN L. HOLMAN    
 
  Name:  
     
  Joann L. Holman   
 
  Title:  
     
  Director   

WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A.,  as a Tranche 1 Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ LING LI    
 
  Name:  
     
  Ling Li   
 
  Title:  
     
  Vice President   

LCL- LE CREDIT LYONNAIS,  as a Tranche 1 Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ RICHARD RAYON    
 
  Name:  
     
  Richard Rayon   
 
  Title:  
     
  Regional Director   

Page S-5   

KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,  as a Tranche 1 Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ FRANK L. JANCAR    
 
  Name:  
     
  Frank L. Jancar   
 
  Title:  
     
  Vice President   

SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION,  as a Tranche 1 Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ YOSHIHIRO HYAKUTOME    
 
  Name:  
     
  Yoshihiro Hyakutome   
 
  Title:  
     
  Joint General Manager   

COMERICA BANK,  as a Tranche 1 Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ ELYSE M. WALKER    
 
  Name:  
     
  Elyse M. Walker   
 
  Title:  
     
  Vice President   

THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY,  as a Tranche 1 Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ JOHN E. BURDA    
 
  Name:  
     
  John E. Burda   
 
  Title:  
     
  Vice President   

Page S-6   

</EX-10.12>

<EX-21>
 8
 dex21.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

List of Subsidiaries 

EXHIBIT 21        JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT       The following table sets forth all subsidiaries of the Company other than subsidiaries that, when considered in the aggregate, would not constitute a
significant subsidiary, including the percentage of issued and outstanding voting securities beneficially owned by the Company.       

Jacobs Engineering Company, a California corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Engineering Group of Ohio, Inc., an Ohio corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Government Services Company, a California corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Field Services North America, Inc., a Texas corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    JE Remediation Technologies, Inc., a Louisiana corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Constructors, Inc., a Louisiana corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Industrial Maintenance Company LLC., a U.S. Virgin Islands corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Maintenance, Inc., a Louisiana corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Consultancy Inc., a Texas corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Engineering Inc., a Delaware corporation ( JEI )   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    CODE International Assurance Ltd., a Nevada corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Engineering Espana, S.L., a Spanish corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Engineering Ireland Limited, a Republic of Ireland corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Lend Lease Ireland Limited, a Republic of Ireland corporation   
      
  50.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Engineering de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Uhde Jacobs Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  49.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Luxembourg, Sarl, a Luxembourg corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Holding France SAS, a French corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs France SAS, a French corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Italia, SpA, an Italian corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Spain, S.L., a Spanish corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Engineering Deutschland GmbH, a German corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Services GmbH, a German corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Projects GmbH, a German corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Alliance Services GmbH, a German corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Nederland BV, a Netherlands corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs  sterreich GmbH, a Austrian corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Advanced Manufacturing B.V., a Netherlands corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Belgie NV, a Belgian corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Interhuis SA, a Belgian corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Sverige AB, a Swedish corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs U.K. Holdings Ltd., a corporation of England and Wales   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Engineering U.K. Limited, a corporation of England and Wales ( JEL )   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    GIBB Holdings Ltd., a corporation of England and Wales   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs U.K. Limited, a corporation of Scotland   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Allott   Lomax Holdings Limited, a corporation of England and Wales   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Allott Projects Limited, a corporation of England and Wales   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Boxinye Limited, a corporation of Ireland   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Babtie International Limited, a corporation of Scotland   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Babtie Spol s.r.o, a Czech Republic corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    PPU Babtie Spol s.r.o, a Czech Republic corporation   
      
  60.00  
  %   
 
    Murdoch Green Limited, a corporation of England and Wales   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs China Limited, a Hong Kong corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Babtie Asia Pte Limited, a Singapore corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Babtie Asia Technical   Management Consultants Sdn Bhd, a Malaysian corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Westminster   Earley Services Ltd., a corporation of England and Wales   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Catalytic (UK) Ltd., a corporation of England and Wales   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Consultancy U.K. Limited, a corporation of England and Wales   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    JE Professional Resources Limited, a corporation of England and Wales   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Finland Oy, a corporation of Finland   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs International Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    JacobsGIBB Hellas A.E. a Greek corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    JacobsGIBB (Polska) SPz.o.o., a Polish corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs H G Private Limited, an Indian corporation   
      
  69.98  
  %*   
 
    HGC Constructors Private Limited., an Indian corporation   
      
  80.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Puerto Rico, Inc., a Puerto Rican corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Holdings Singapore Pte. Ltd., a Singapore corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Constructors Singapore Pte. Ltd, a Singapore corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Engineering Singapore Pte. Ltd., a Singapore corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs-Lend Lease Singapore Pte. Ltd., a Singapore corporation   
      
  50.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Pan-American Corporation, a Virgin Islands corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Canada Inc., a Canadian corporation ( J-CAN )   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Catalytic Ltd., a Canadian corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Consultancy Canada Inc., a Canadian corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Delta Catalytic Ltd., a Cyprus corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Delta Catalytic Saudi Arabia Ltd., a Saudi Arabian corporation   
      
  50.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Advisers, Inc., a California corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %**   
 
    JE Professional Resources, Inc., a California corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Applied Technology, Inc., a Delaware corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Facilities Inc., a Missouri corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    GPR Planners Collaborative, Inc., a Missouri corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Resourcing Services Company LLC, a Michigan corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Sverdrup Technology, Inc., a Tennessee corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Australia, Pty Ltd, an Australian corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Civil Inc., a Missouri corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Civil Consultants, Inc., a New York corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Industrial Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    CRSS International, Inc., a South Carolina corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   
 
    Jacobs Engineering New York Inc., a New York corporation   
      
  100.00  
  %   

*  
  Ownership is divided between JEI and JEL.     

**  
  Ownership is divided between Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and J-CAN.        All subsidiaries and affiliates are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP 

EXHIBIT 23              CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM             We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:         

(1)  
     
  Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-67048) pertaining to the Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan,           

of our reports dated December 7, 2006, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of
Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc. and subsidiaries, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of
Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., included in the Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended September 30, 2006.            /s/ Ernst   Young LLP            Los Angeles, California      December 7, 2006   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification of CEO pursuant to Section 302 

EXHIBIT 31.1              CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER        Pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002             I, Craig L.
Martin, certify that:         

1.  
     
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.;           

2.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;           

3.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;           

4.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)), and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:           

a.  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;           

b.  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;           

c.  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and           

d.  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and           

5.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):           

a.  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and           

b.  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/ S /    C RAIG  L.
M ARTIN            
 
   Craig L. Martin    
 
   Chief Executive Officer    
          December 7, 2006               

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification of CFO pursuant to Section 302 

EXHIBIT 31.2              CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER        Pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002             I, John W.
Prosser, Jr., certify that:         

1.  
     
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.;           

2.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;           

3.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;           

4.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)), and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:           

a.  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;           

b.  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;           

c.  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and           

d.  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and           

5.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):           

a.  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and           

b.  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/ S /    J OHN  W. P ROSSER ,
J R .           
 
   John W. Prosser, Jr.    
 
   Chief Financial Officer    
          December 7, 2006   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification of CEO pursuant to Section 906 

EXHIBIT 32.1              CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER        Pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350        Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002             In connection with the Annual Report of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Craig L. Martin, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

/ S /    C RAIG  L.
M ARTIN            
 
   Craig L. Martin    
 
   Chief Executive Officer    
          December 7, 2006            A signed original of this written statement required by
Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.               

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification of CFO pursuant to Section 906 

EXHIBIT 32.2              CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER        Pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350        Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002             In connection with the Annual Report of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, John W. Prosser, Jr., Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934; and (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

/ S /    J OHN  W. P ROSSER ,
J R .           
 
   John W. Prosser, Jr.    
 
     Executive Vice President,       Finance and Administration     
          December 7, 2006            A signed original of this written statement required by
Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

