<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061214_10-K_edgar_data_39547_0000950129-06-010159_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3988820</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>944043</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>77442</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2010018</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>175</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950129-06-010159.hdr.sgml : 20061214
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061214170815
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950129-06-010159
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		18
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20041231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061214
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000039547
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RADIO TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS [4812]
		IRS NUMBER:				580971455
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05706
		FILM NUMBER:		061277858

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 TOWER POINT DRIVE
		CITY:			CHARLOTTE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28227
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7043217380

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 TOWER POINT DRIVE
		CITY:			CHARLOTTE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28227

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ACTAVA GROUP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19930723

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FUQUA INDUSTRIES INC /DE/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 TRdWLc2QT5+ALbrbvylvkJQRGq7zjls6ZN3YI4FXD5WjCrm6aNRMR9UMJxD8Jbtv
 aULurptEB2QT2TbpLX2ZAg==

 0000950129-06-010159.txt : 20061214

10-K
 1
 h38088e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K - ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form  10-K  

(Mark One) 

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

For Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2004  

or  

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)  

For the transition period
    from          to  

Commission file number 1-5706 

Metromedia International Group, Inc. 

(Exact name of registrant, as specified in its charter) 

Delaware  

58-0971455  

(State or other jurisdiction of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

8000 Tower Point Drive, Charlotte, North Carolina 28227 

(Address and zip code of principal executive offices) 

(704) 321-7380 

(Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act: 

Common Stock, $0.01 par value 

7  1  / 4 %
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act: 

None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation  S-K  is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form  10-K.        

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):     Large
accelerated
filer              Accelerated
filer              Non-accelerated
filer   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange Act).     Yes              No   

The aggregate market value of voting stock of the registrant
held by non-affiliates of the registrant at June 30, 2004
based on the average bid and ask prices of its Common Stock on
the  over-the -counter
market on such date of $0.42 per share was approximately
$28,272,575.

The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of
October 31, 2006 was 94,034,947.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

None

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PART I   

Item 1. 

Business  

1 

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors  

70 

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments  

81 

Item 2. 

Properties  

81 

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings  

81 

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders  

87 

PART II   

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities  

87 

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data  

88 

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

91 

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk  

148 

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data  

149 

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

149 

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures  

149 

Item 9B. 

Other Information  

151 

PART III   

Item 10. 

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant  

152 

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation  

156 

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

170 

Item 13. 

Certain Relationship and Related
    Transactions  

173 

Item 14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

175 

PART IV   

Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  

177 

Signatures  

178 

Amendment No.1 to Employment Agreement - Mark Stephen Hauf    
     Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges    
     List of subsidiaries    
     Consent of KPMG Limited    
     Consent of KPMG LLP    
     Consent of KPMG Limited    
     Certification of PEO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of PFO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 906    
     Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 906    

Table of Contents   

Certain statements set forth below in this
Form  10-K 
constitute  Forward-looking Statements  within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended. See  Special Note Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements  on page 91.  

PART I 

Item 1.  
     
      Business   

Metromedia International Group, Inc. ( MIG  or the
 Company ) is a holding company that has economic
interests in business ventures that principally provide
telecommunication services to customers in the country of
Georgia. Prior to August 2005 (see     Recent
Developments   PeterStar Sale Transaction 
 below), the Company also owned a 71% economic interest in
ZAO PeterStar, the leading competitive local exchange carrier in
St. Petersburg, Russia ( PeterStar ).

At December 31, 2004, the Company had two reporting
segments, as follows:

Magticom Ltd., the leading mobile telephony operator in Tbilisi,
    Georgia, in which the Company presently has a 50.1% ownership
    interest ( Magticom ). As discussed further below (see
        Recent Developments  
    Reorganization of Ownership Interest in Business Ventures
    in Georgia   Magticom Ownership Activity  
    February 2005  ), prior to mid-February 2005, the
    Company had a 34.5% ownership interest in Magticom and had
    followed the equity method of accounting for its ownership
    interest. 

As a result of the restructuring of the Company s ownership
    interests in Magticom in February 2005, the Company gained the
    ability to exert operational oversight over Magticom. However,
    the Company has determined that its ownership interest in
    Magticom (through its holding company structure), as a result of
    the ownership restructurings that occurred in February 2005 and
    September 2005 (discussed herein), should still be accounted for
    following the equity method of accounting. 

PeterStar, the leading competitive local exchange carrier in St.
    Petersburg, Russia, in which the Company had a 71% economic
    interest until its disposition in August 2005 (see
        Recent Developments   PeterStar Sale
    Transaction   below). 

As of December 31, 2004, PeterStar and its subsidiaries,
    Baltic Communications Limited ( Baltic Comm. ),
    ADM-Murmansk, Pskov City Telephone Network ( Pskov
    Telecom ), Pskovinterkom, and Comset (collectively, the
     PeterStar Group ), did not meet the requirements of
    Paragraph 30 of SFAS No. 144,   Accounting
    for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets 
     ( SFAS No. 144 ). Consequently, the
    Company did not treat the PeterStar Group as held for sale as of
    December 31, 2004 and instead continued to present the
    PeterStar Group s results of operations as continuing
    operations in the Company s consolidated statements of
    operations for all years presented herein. However, effective in
    the first quarter of 2005, the PeterStar Group met the criteria
    of SFAS No. 144 for classification as a discontinued
    component. As a result, beginning with the Company s
    quarterly report on
    Form  10-Q  for the
    period ended March 31, 2005, the PeterStar Group will be so
    accounted for within the Company s financial statements as
    of that date and prospectively through the date of disposition. 

At December 31, 2004, the Company also had ownership
interests in:

Telecom Georgia, a long-distance transit operator in Tbilisi,
    Georgia, in which the Company presently has a 25.6% ownership
    interest. As discussed further below (see     Recent
    Developments   Reorganization of
    Ownership Interest in Business Ventures in
    Georgia   Telecom Georgia Ownership Activity ),
    prior to mid- February 2005, the Company had a 30% ownership
    interest in Telecom Georgia and had followed the equity method
    of accounting for its ownership interest therein. Subsequent to
    December 31, 2003, the Company had not recorded any share
    of the losses of Telecom Georgia since, as of December 31,
    2003, the Company s carrying balance in accordance with
    accounting  

1

Table of Contents   

principles generally accepted in the United States
    ( U.S. GAAP ) was zero and the Company had no
    obligation to fund the operations of Telecom Georgia.  

As a result of the restructuring of the Company s ownership
    interest in Telecom Georgia in February 2005, the Company gained
    the ability to exert operational oversight over Telecom Georgia.
    On May 23, 2005, the charter of Telecom Georgia that was in
    effect for the past several years was amended, as a result,
    certain substantive participatory rights that were afforded to
    the minority shareholder were eliminated, which allowed the
    Company to follow the consolidation method of accounting. 

In July 2006, the Company consummated a series of transactions
    associated with its ownership interest in Telecom Georgia. As a
    result of these transactions, the Company s ownership
    interest in Telecom Georgia decreased to 20.7% and is now held
    through various U.S. based holding companies in which the
    Company has the controlling interest, thereby enabling the
    Company to continue to exercise operational oversight and also
    consolidation accounting with respect to Telecom Georgia. 

In October 2006, the Company, through International
    Telcell LLC ( International T LLC ), an
    intermediary holding company in which the Company has a 25.6%
    economic ownership interest, acquired the 19% ownership interest
    held by Bulcom in Telecom Georgia thereby increasing the
    Company s economic interest in Telecom Georgia to 25.6%. 

Ayety TV, a cable television provider in Tbilisi, Georgia, in
    which the Company has a 85% ownership interest
    ( Ayety ). Currently, the Company is involved in a
    number of commercial and legal disputes with the 15% minority
    shareholder of Ayety, the result of the dispute, despite the
    Company s majority economic interest, is that: 

The Company no longer controls the day-to-day business affairs
    of Ayety; 

The Company no longer has favorable relations with management of
    Ayety, since the Company attempted to terminate the General
    Director of Ayety in late June 2004; and 

The Company has been unable to prepare U.S. GAAP financial
    statements of Ayety to include within its consolidated financial
    statements since the Company no longer has access to the
    statutory accounting records of Ayety. Accordingly, as allowed
    under FIN 46R the Company no longer consolidates its
    variable interest in Ayety for all periods subsequent to
    June 30, 2004 to include within its consolidated financial
    statements  (see Item 3.  Legal
    Proceedings   Legal Matters with
    Mtatsminda   International Telcell SPS vs
    Mtatsminda ) . 

While these latter two business ventures do not have
     short-term  strong
    growth prospects, the Company believes that both business
    ventures could enable the Company to develop a broader presence
    in the Georgian market, which also could reinforce and draw upon
    Magticom s position in that market. 

In addition, as of December 31, 2004, the Company had one
radio broadcast station, which was subsequently sold in late
April 2005. The Company s U.S. GAAP carrying balance in
this radio broadcast station was recorded at its carrying amount
since this amount was lower than its fair value less costs to
sell. Until their dispositions in 2004, the Company also owned
interests in eighteen radio businesses operating in Finland,
Hungary, Bulgaria, Estonia, and the Czech Republic and one cable
television network in Lithuania.

For the year ended December 31, 2004, PeterStar generated
substantially all of the Company s consolidated revenues
and cost of services. Operating expenses at PeterStar and
corporate overhead expenses are the principal components that
generated the Company s consolidated operating losses.
Results of operations of Magticom represent substantially all of
the Company s equity in income of unconsolidated investees.

The Company s principal executive offices are located at
8000 Tower Point Drive, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28227,
telephone: (704) 321-7380, fax: (704) 845-1835.

Unless otherwise indicated, all dollar amounts are stated in
U.S. Dollars.

2

Table of Contents   

Recent Developments 

PeterStar Sale Transaction   

On August 1, 2005, the Company consummated the sale of its
71% ownership interest in the PeterStar Group pursuant to a
definitive agreement that was executed on February 17, 2005
for cash consideration of $215.0 million (the
 PeterStar Sale ). The February 17, 2005
definitive agreement was among the Company, First National
Holding S.A. ( First National ), Emergent Telecom
Ventures S.A. ( Emergent ) and Pisces Investment
Limited, a company organized under the Companies Law of Cyprus
and a wholly-owned subsidiary of First National and Emergent
( Pisces , and together with First National and
Emergent, the  Buyers ). First National, a holding
company incorporated in Luxembourg, owns a 58.9% stake in OAO
Telecominvest ( Telecominvest ) in Russia. At the time
of the consummation of the PeterStar Sale, Telecominvest was the
29% minority shareholder in PeterStar.

The Company anticipates that it will recognize a gain of
approximately $113.7 million, before transactional costs,
on the disposal of the PeterStar Group in the third quarter of
2005, since its U.S. GAAP carrying balance in PeterStar at the
date of sale was $101.3 million. The Company presently
anticipates that it will be able to utilize its tax attributes
(capital loss and net operating loss carryforwards) to offset
any federal or state tax gain that would be recognized on the
sale.

Prior to consummating the PeterStar Sale, the Company intended
to use its corporate cash reserves to provide for the
development of Magticom and PeterStar, with the expectation that
their future dividend distributions would be sufficient to meet,
on a timely basis, the Company s corporate overhead
requirements and indebtedness interest payment obligations,
including those associated with its $152.0 million
10  1  / 2 %
Senior Notes due 2007 (the  Senior Notes ). The
Company recognized, however, that the anticipated dividend
distributions from Magticom and PeterStar would not be
sufficient to allow the Company to retire the Senior Notes at
maturity. As a result, the Company had been actively assessing
for some time the practical financial restructuring alternatives
and business development opportunities available to the Company.
This work included an assessment of business valuations for the
Company s business ventures and a pragmatic assessment of
the opportunities and risks associated with continued pursuit
and development of the Company s business ventures as it
was then organized. In connection with this work, the Company
also received and carefully considered several third party
merger and acquisition proposals and various opportunities to
refinance the Company s Senior Notes. The Company s
Board of Directors concluded that the PeterStar Sale offered the
best opportunity reasonably available to maximize value for the
Company s stakeholders.

Redemption of Senior Notes   

On August 8, 2005, using a portion of the cash proceeds
from the PeterStar Sale, the Company completed the redemption of
its outstanding Senior Notes. The aggregate redemption price of
the Senior Notes, including accrued and unpaid interest, was
$157.7 million.

Early Termination of Defined Benefit Pension Plan   

On March 14, 2006, the Company funded approximately
$5.4 million to its defined benefit pension plan (the
 Pension Plan ) to ensure that the value of the
Pension Plan assets was sufficient to cover all benefit
liabilities since the Pension Plan made a final distribution to
the Pension Plan participants on March 22, 2006. The final
distribution to the Pension Plan participants resulted from the
Company s initiative to terminate the Pension Plan, in
accordance with the provisions of Section 4041 of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
( ERISA ).

Settlement of the Fuqua Industries, Inc. Shareholder
    Litigation   

On April 6, 2006, the Company received approximately
$4.6 million from the settlement of the Fuqua Industries,
Inc. Shareholder Litigation (see  Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings  Fuqua Industries, Inc. Shareholder

3

Table of Contents   

Litigation ) (the  Settlement ). The aggregate
amount of the Settlement was $7.0 million; however,
approximately $2.4 million was paid to plaintiff s
legal counsel to cover legal fees and expenses.

Reorganization of Ownership Interest in Business
    Ventures in Georgia   

In February 2005, through a series of transactions with
Dr. George Jokhtaberidze, co-founder and then majority
owner of Magticom, the Company reorganized its ownership
interest in Magticom. The net result of these transactions, was
as follows:

The Company s economic ownership in Magticom increased to
    42.8% from 34.5%. Through the Company s majority economic
    ownership interest (50.1%) in International Telcell Cellular
    LLC, ( International TC LLC ), an intermediary
    holding company that owned, directly and indirectly as of
    February 28, 2005, 85.5% of Magticom, the Company obtained
    the largest economic ownership interest in Magticom and gained
    the ability to exert operational oversight over Magticom.
    However, the Company has determined that its ownership interest
    in Magticom (through its holding company structure), as a result
    of this ownership restructuring, should still be accounted for
    following the equity method of accounting. Dr. George
    Jokhtaberidze owned, prior to June 1, 2006, the remaining
    49.9% interest in International TC LLC; 

A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company issued a promissory
    note in the amount of $23.1 million to
    Dr. Jokhtaberidze as payment for the additional 8.3%
    Magticom interest the Company obtained in February 2005 (the
     Dr. Jokhtaberidze Promissory Note  and 

International TC LLC subsequently entered into an agreement
    with the Georgian government that resulted in the cancellation,
    in exchange for a cash payment of $15.0 million, of the
    Georgian government s rights to obtain a 20% Magticom
    purchase option. The $15.0 million payment was funded by
    pro-rata cash contributions to International TC LLC from
    the Company and Dr. Jokhtaberidze. The Georgian
    government s right to obtain a 20% purchase option in
    Magticom resulted from a series of negotiations and agreements
    that were executed in April 2004 associated with the
    Company s, but most importantly Dr. George
    Jokhtaberidze s ownership interest in Magticom. These
    negotiations and agreements were a precursor to the, previously
    discussed, February 2005 agreements associated with the
    reorganization of ownership interest in Magticom. 

Specifically, in February 2004, Dr. George Jokhtaberidze,
    who is also the son-in-law of former Georgian president Eduard
    Shevardnadze, was arrested in Georgia pending investigation of
    various tax-related matters related to his ownership interest in
    Magticom. On April 26, 2004, the prosecution of
    Dr. Jokhtaberidze by the Georgian government was dropped
    without any finding of wrongdoing and Dr. Jokhtaberidze was
    released from investigative detention. On the same day, the
    Georgian government s investigation into past business and
    tax payment practices of Magticom were completed with no adverse
    findings. 

On September 15, 2005, the Company and
Dr. Jokhtaberidze, through the holding company
International TC LLC, acquired the 14.5% economic interest in
Magticom, formerly owned by Western Wireless International
( Western Wireless ), for a cash price of
$43.0 million (in proportion to their respective ownership
interests in International TC LLC). As a result, the
Company s economic interest in Magticom increased to 50.1%
since International TC LLC currently, directly and indirectly,
owns 100% of Magticom. Prior to the purchase, Magticom issued a
dividend of $17.0 million, net of 10% Georgian dividend
withholding taxes, of which $7.3 million was distributed to
the Company. The Company used the net proceeds from this
dividend distribution to partially fund the purchase and funded
its remaining portion of the purchase using corporate cash of
approximately $14.3 million.

Concurrent with this transaction, the Company paid in full all
principal and accrued and unpaid interest due to
Dr. Jokhtaberidze under the Dr. Jokhtaberidze
Promissory Note described above.

4

Table of Contents   

Telecom Georgia Ownership Activity  

In February 2005, the Company negotiated and purchased an
additional 51% ownership interest in Telecom Georgia from the
Georgian government for a cash purchase price of
$5.0 million. The additional 51% acquired interest in
Telecom Georgia resulted in the Company increasing its ownership
to 81%, gaining the ability to exert operational oversight over
Telecom Georgia. Furthermore, on May 23, 2005, the charter
of Telecom Georgia that was in effect for the past several years
was amended, as a result, certain substantive participatory
rights that were afforded to the minority shareholder were
eliminated, which allowed the Company to follow the
consolidation method of accounting.

In July 2006, the Company consummated a series of transactions
associated with its 81% ownership interest in Telecom Georgia.
In summary, the Company acquired a controlling interest in
Telenet, a Georgian company providing internet access, data
communication, voice telephony and international access
services, from a third party in exchange for cash and a minority
interest shareholding in both Telenet and Telecom Georgia. Prior
to entering the agreements, Strikland Investments, Inc. and
Greatbay Investments, Ltd. directly owned between them 100% of
Telecom Georgia Group Ltd, an international business company
organized under the laws of British Virgin Islands
( TGG ) that was the sole owner of Telenet. In
addition, Dr. Jokhtaberidze, the Company s principal
partner in Magticom, acquired from the Company a minority
interest shareholding in the Company s ownership in these
two business ventures. As a result, the Company s interests
in Telenet and Telecom Georgia are held through
 US-based  holding
companies in which the Company has the controlling interest,
enabling the Company to exercise operational oversight over both
Telenet and Telecom Georgia. Furthermore, the Company exited the
transactions with the largest economic interest of any of the
shareholders in both Telecom Georgia and Telenet, of
approximately 20.7% and 25.6%, respectively and completed these
transactions with a net corporate cash outlay of approximately
$450,000.

Telenet provides high-speed data communication and internet
access services on both a wired and wireless basis, primarily to
commercial and institutional customers in Georgia. It also
operates international voice and data transit links between
Georgia and Russia. Immediately prior to the Company s
acquisition of Telenet, Telenet acquired from IberiaTel,
Georgia s only license to provide CDMA 450 MHz
wireless voice and data services and a CDMA 450 network deployed
in Georgia s capital city, Tbilisi. The target markets of
Telecom Georgia and Telenet are office and residential consumers
of fixed location telephony and data communication service; and
both companies have well-established Georgian brands in these
markets.

The Company undertook this business combination of Telecom
Georgia and Telenet to extend the range of communication
services offered by our Georgian companies to include
conventional office and residential local exchange telephony
service and to address the rapidly growing internet and data
communications markets in Georgia. This strategy aims to
complement and strengthen the market leadership position already
held by our Magticom business in Georgia s mobile telephony
market. In combination, Telenet and Telecom Georgia provide an
excellent vehicle for competing in Georgia s fixed location
communications market on both a wired and wireless basis. Our
new partners, the former owners of Telenet, bring considerable
local operating experience and financing capacity with respect
to the further development of Telenet and Telecom Georgia; and
the involvement of our Magticom partner in the development
assures smooth coordination between future mobile and fixed
location service expansion activities.

5

Table of Contents   

The ownership structure of Telecom Georgia  
July 6, 2006:

*    No officers or board of director members of the
Company are investors or are affiliated with these entities. 

Telecom Georgia Ownership Activity  
    October 2006  

On October 27, 2006, the Company, through
International T LLC, an intermediary holding company
in which the Company has a 25.6% economic ownership interest,
acquired the 19% ownership interest held by Bulcom in Telecom
Georgia for $0.7 million, thereby increasing the
Company s economic interest in Telecom Georgia to 25.6%.
Furthermore, as a part of that transaction, the Company paid a
broker fee of $0.1 million to a third party for their
facilitation of the transaction.

6

Table of Contents   

The ownership structure of Telecom Georgia  
October 30, 2006:

*    No officers or board of director members of the
Company are investors or are affiliated with these entities. 

Georgian Business Development Initiatives   

Magticom Georgian License Activity.  

In November 2005, Magticom acquired at auction a license to use
20% of the 1,800 MHz (or equivalent to 15% of the combined
900 MHz and 1,800 MHz) radio frequency spectrum
available in Georgia for offering Groupe Speciale Mobile, or
GSM, data and voice services. Magticom has paid approximately
1.0 million Georgian Lari ( GEL ) (approximately
$0.6 million) for the license, which is usable for a period
of ten years.

In May 2005, Magticom acquired at auction a license to use 18%
of the 800 MHz radio frequency spectrum available in Georgia for
offering Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, data, voice and
video services. Magticom paid approximately 26.1 million
GEL (approximately $14.3 million) for the license, which is
usable for a period of ten years. Magticom completed technical
trials of the CDMA spectrum within one year as required by the
license.

In August 2005, Magticom acquired at auction a license to use
25% of the 2.1 GHz radio frequency spectrum available in Georgia
for offering 3rd Generation ( 3G ) GSM mobile voice,
data and video services. Magticom paid approximately
20.4 million GEL (approximately $11.3 million) for the
license, which is

7

Table of Contents   

usable for a period of 10 years. Magticom completed
technical trials of the 3G GSM spectrum within one year as
required by the license.

License rights for additional 3G radio frequency spectrum,
representing less than 25% of the available 3G radio frequency
spectrum, were offered at auction in April 2006; in which the
winning bid was approximately 20 million GEL (approximately
$11 million). Magticom did not directly participate in the
tender; however, Magticom has entered into agreements with the
winner of the April 2006 auction, pursuant to which Magticom
will acquire from that party license rights to all of their
license rights. Magticom anticipates paying the full winning bid
price, plus a nominal mark-up, for these license rights.
Following the purchase, Magticom s 3G spectrum holdings is
less than 50% of total 3G spectrum, as required by Georgian law.

The Georgian government conducted an auction in May 2006 for
license rights to a third 25% segment of the 3G spectrum.
Magticom could neither directly participate in this auction nor
acquire any portion of the license obtained by the
auction s winner, due to the aforementioned legal
limitations on the portion of 3G spectrum which Magticom can
hold. The winner of the May 2006 auction, with a bid of
approximately 18.7 million GEL (approximately
$10.4 million), was not operating any telephony service in
Georgia. Geocell, a competitor of Magticom within Georgia,
entered into an arrangement with the winner of the May 2006
auction, pursuant to which Geocell acquired from that party,
license rights to the third 25% portion of Georgia s
3G spectrum and commenced services in Tbilisi in
December 2006.

On July 7, 2006, the Georgian regulator renewed
Magticom s 900 MHz s radio frequency spectrum
licenses for another ten year period, effective immediately.
Magticom paid a license renewal fee of GEL 24.9 million
(approximately $13.7 million).

Magticom s GSM, 3G and CDMA licenses enable it to provide
mobile communication services in Georgia that are as advanced as
any now offered anywhere in the world. Each license is effective
for a ten-year period and is effective country-wide. Magticom
introduced commercial 3G services and completed the requisite
technical trials of the CDMA service in the third quarter of
2006. Magticom already holds long-standing, renewable licenses
to offer conventional GSM telephony services in the 900 MHz
and 1800 MHz spectrum (see      Description of
Businesses   Magticom (Tbilisi, Georgia and the Country of
Georgia)   Licenses  and Item 1A.  Risk
Factors   The Company now operates solely in the country of
Georgia, which presents a general risk profile that may be
materially different from that ordinarily expected by U.S.
investors   Limitations in the Georgian Licensing
Regime  ).

Participation in Georgian Government Privatization of
    United Telecom of Georgia   

On May 12, 2006, the Georgian government concluded a tender
of shares held by an agency of the Georgian Ministry of Economic
Development in the Georgian wire-line telephone company United
Telecom of Georgia ( UTG , formerly known as Georgian
Electrokavshiri). The shares tendered represented approximately
90% of the outstanding ownership interests in UTG, with the
remaining approximately 10% of outstanding shares held by
UTG s employees. In addition to providing wire-line
telephone service to approximately 350,000 subscribers
throughout Georgia, UTG owns a principal portion of
Georgia s intra-city duct works and cable rights-of-way,
holds rights to use a potion of a national fiber transport
network, and acts as the country s incumbent local
wire-line exchange carrier.

The Company, through its subsidiary International T LLC, entered
a bid in the May 12th tender of $81.25 million;
$5 million of which International T LLC borrowed
from Magticom and deposited with the Company s bid. The
Company believed that the acquisition of UTG could have resulted
in certain synergies with the operations of both Magticom and
Telecom Georgia and, thus, undertook to participate in the
May 12th tender. Financing of the acquisition, if this bid
proved to be successful, was to be provided from further funds
loaned by Magticom and equity investment in
International T LLC by certain third parties (see also
 Item 1A.  Risk Factors   The Company may
face limitations or additional costs in securing funds for
further business development ) .

8

Table of Contents   

Only one other bid, in the amount of $90 million by a
Georgian-Kazakh consortium, was entered in the tender. In view
of the higher amount offered, the Georgian government entered
into a share purchase agreement with this other bidder.

The above initiatives are indicative of the Company s
current strategic objective of actively pursuing alliances and
acquisitions in Georgia, and the surrounding Central Asian
region, for the purposes of both leveraging and strengthening
its core Georgian holdings. The Company s goal is the
development of a growing portfolio of allied mobile and fixed
telephony businesses serving the region. Magticom s
continued strong operational and financial performance, coupled
with the cash proceeds from the PeterStar Sale, repayment of the
Senior Notes, and the reorganization of the ownership interests
in Magticom and Telecom Georgia whereby the Company now has the
ability to exert operational oversight over Magticom, Telecom
Georgia, and Telenet provide the Company the operational
platform and improved financial liquidity base to pursue this
strategy (see  Item 1A.  Risk Factors   The
Company may face limitations or additional costs in securing
funds for further business development ). 

Proposed Sale of Substantially all of Company
    Assets   

On October 2, 2006, the Company announced the execution of
a letter of intent (the  Offer Agreement ) in respect
of an offer it received to acquire all of the Company s
business interests in Georgia for a cash price of
$480 million from a group of investors ( Offering
Group ).

The Company entered into the Offer Agreement with the Offering
Group on September 28, 2006, providing for exclusivity in
negotiations during a sixty-day due diligence period and setting
forth intended terms of a binding share purchase agreement which
they expected to execute within the exclusivity period and upon
conclusion of the Offering Group s due diligence. The Offer
Agreement was executed on September 28, 2006 but did not
become effective until October 1, 2006, the date at which
the Company had entered into the separate Lock-Up and Voting
Agreements, as defined below, with representatives of holders of
approximately 80% of its 4.1 million outstanding shares of
Preferred Stock.

On December 5, 2006, the Company received a letter from
Salford Capital Partners ( Salford ), the then sole
remaining member of the Offering Group and a party to the Offer
Agreement, in which Salford (a) informed the Company that
it (x) has decided not to proceed with the proposed
transaction outlined in the Offer Agreement, (y) is
terminating the exclusivity restrictions of the Offer Agreement
for Cause (as defined in the Offer Agreement) as a result of an
alleged breach of the  access to information  covenant
contained therein, and (b) requested that the Company
reimburse Salford for the transaction expenses incurred by it to
date in connection with the proposed transaction in the amount
of US $1,010,000. The Company is in the process of evaluating
Salford s claim for reimbursement of its expenses in order
to assess whether the request is with or without merit.

In connection with the execution of the Offer Agreement,
beginning on September 29, 2006 and finalizing on
October 1, 2006, the Company entered into separate lock-up,
support and voting agreements (the  Lock-Up and Voting
Agreements ) with representatives (the  Preferred
Representatives ) of holders of approximately 80 % of its
4.1 million outstanding shares of preferred stock, par
value $1.00 per share (the  Preferred Stock ). In
connection with the Offer Agreement, the Preferred
Representatives have agreed to support a chapter 11 plan
(in a case to be filed in the United States Court for the
District of Delaware (the  Wind-up )), pursuant to
which holders of the Company s Preferred Stock would
receive $68 per share from Net Distributable Cash (hereinafter
defined) of $420 million or less and one-half of any Net
Distributable Cash in excess of $420 million, allocated
equally among the shares of Preferred Stock. The balance of Net
Distributable Cash would be allocated equally among the
outstanding common shares. Since the Preferred Representatives
represent holders of more than two-thirds of the presently
outstanding Preferred Stock, if such a plan is approved by the
Court, the plan would be binding on all preferred stockholders.
 Net Distributable Cash  will consist of the cash
proceeds of the intended sale of the Company s business
interests in Georgia plus the Company s portion of
dividends received from its subsidiary Magticom Ltd. prior to
the sale and all headquarters cash on hand in the Company at
sale closing less: (i) any taxes arising out of the sale of
assets; (ii) payments of all allowed claims in the Wind-Up;
(iii) necessary reserves for the final liquidation

9

Table of Contents   

of the Company and its subsidiaries; (iv) professional fees
connected with the proposed sale transaction and pursuit of the
Wind-Up; and (v) Board-approved bonuses or similar payments
to Company directors, management and employees which in an
aggregate amount are estimated to equal approximately 5% of the
proposed sale transaction proceeds. By end of first half 2007,
the combined face value plus accumulated unpaid dividends that
would otherwise be due to the preferred stockholders would be in
aggregate approximately $325 million or $78.50 per share of
Preferred Stock outstanding.

On November 18, 2006, the Company and Preferred
Representatives of holders of more than two-thirds of the
Company s outstanding shares of Preferred Stock agreed to
an amendment to the Lock-Up and Voting Agreements pursuant to
which holders of the Company s Preferred Stock will receive
$68 per share from Net Distributable Consideration (as
defined in the amendment to the Lock-Up and Voting Agreements)
of $420 million or less, plus one-half of any Net
Distributable Consideration in excess of $420 million and
less than $465 million, and plus twenty percent of any
remaining Net Distributable Consideration in excess of
$465 million, allocated equally among the shares of
Preferred Stock. The balance of Net Distributable Consideration
would be allocated equally among the outstanding common shares.

As previously noted, the Offer Agreement was terminated on
December 5, 2006 and, as a result, there is presently no
transaction pending that would trigger the arrangements
contemplated under the Lock-Up and Voting Agreements.

Magticom Dividend Distribution   

On October 18, 2006, Magticom issued a $33.33 million
dividend to its shareholders of which $3.33 million was
paid to the Georgian government, representing the required 10%
withholding tax for dividend distributions to U.S. shareholders.
International TC LLC received the $30.0 million dividend
distribution and then repaid its loan obligations, principal and
interest, to a wholly-owned subsidiary of MIG and
Dr. Jokhtaberidze in the amount of $14.73 million and
$14.67 million, respectively. The
International TC LLC loan obligations, to its then
members, originated in September 2005 when it acquired
Western Wireless  indirect 14.5% economic interest in
Magticom. Furthermore, International TC LLC
distributed the remaining $0.6 million to its members as a
dividend, of which a wholly-owned subsidiary of MIG received
$0.3 million.

2003 Restructuring 

In the first quarter of 2003, the Company embarked on an overall
restructuring of its business interests and corporate operations
(the  Restructuring ). Prior to that time, the Company
owned interests in a diverse array of telephony, cable
television and radio broadcasting businesses operating in
Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia. Pursuant to the
Restructuring, the Company focused its attentions on further
development of Magticom and PeterStar; and undertook the gradual
disposal of its interests in all other business ventures
( Non-Core Business Ventures ). The Company also
substantially downsized its corporate support staff that worked
in the U.S. and Europe. The Restructuring was prompted by and
was intended to resolve the severe liquidity issues that had
confronted the Company since the beginning of 2002. At the
beginning of the Restructuring, the Non-Core Business Ventures
included nine cable television networks, twenty radio
broadcasting stations and various telephony businesses located
principally in Eastern Europe and other member states of the
former Soviet Union. Cash proceeds from the sale of these
Non-Core Business Ventures alleviated short-term corporate
liquidity concerns and thus reduced the Company s
dependence upon cash distributions from Magticom and PeterStar,
thereby enabling these business ventures to retain more cash for
business development purposes. The concurrent substantial
downsizing of corporate support personnel significantly
decreased the Company s use of corporate cash.

The Restructuring of business interests and corporate operations
was substantially completed by the end of the third quarter of
2004 with the sale of most of the Company s remaining radio
business ventures.

10

Table of Contents   

Liquidity 

Internal Sources of Liquidity   

The Company is a holding company; accordingly, it does not
generate cash flows from operations. As a result, the Company is
dependent on the earnings of its business ventures and the
distribution or other payment of these earnings to it to meet
its long term corporate cash outlay requirements (the  Long
Term Corporate Cash Outlay Requirements ), in addition to
making any cash distributions to its stockholders. The
Company s Long Term Corporate Cash Outlay Requirements
consist of cash outlays for its currently projected corporate
overhead expenditure requirements and ordinary course funding of
its Historic Corporate Liabilities (as defined below).

The Company has legacy liabilities as a result of the
Company s prior U.S. based business operating
activities, principally attributable to the business activities
when the Company operated under the names of  The Actava
Group, Inc.  and  Fuqua Industries, Inc. , which
include, but are not limited to, employee benefit obligations to
former employees (pension obligations and provisions for medical
and life insurance), current funding requirements associated
with the settlement (in April 2006) of the Fuqua Industries,
Inc. Shareholder Litigation (see  Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings    Fuqua Industries, Inc. Shareholder
Litigation ), self-insurance reserves attributable to
product liability and workers  compensation claims and
environmental claims (collectively, the  Historic Corporate
Liabilities ).

As of December 31, 2004 and October 31, 2006, the
Company had $32.7 million and $16.8 million,
respectively, of unrestricted corporate cash. The Company s
business ventures are separate legal entities that have no
obligation to pay any amounts that the Company owes to third
parties. With respect to certain of the Company s business
ventures, the voting power and veto rights of the Company s
business venture partners may limit the Company s ability
to control certain of the operations, strategies and financial
decisions of the business ventures in which it has an ownership
interest. As a result, although cash balances exist in these
business ventures, due to legal and contractual restrictions,
the cash balances of these business ventures cannot be readily
accessed to meet the Company s corporate liquidity needs
without the distribution of dividends following formal dividend
declarations (which would also require minority shareholder
approval at certain of the respective business ventures) to
effect transfers to the Company.

As of December 31, 2004 and July 31, 2005, PeterStar
held $3.9 million and $9.7 million of cash,
respectively, which was held in banks in the country of Russia.
Pursuant to the definitive agreement that the Company executed
in February 2005 associated with the PeterStar Sale, the Company
agreed that it would not take actions as the majority
shareholder in PeterStar to cause PeterStar to either distribute
a dividend to its shareholders or repay any intercompany loans
to the Company.

In addition, as of December 31, 2004, Magticom had
$28.4 million of cash, which was held in banks in Georgia.
As of October 31, 2006, Magticom had $21.3 million of
cash, of which $6.0 million was held in a U.S. bank
and the remainder held in Georgian banks. As previously
disclosed (see     Recent Developments  
Reorganization of Ownership Interest in Business Ventures
in Georgia   Magticom Ownership Activity  
February 2005   above), the Company obtained the largest
effective ownership interest in Magticom and gained the ability
to exert operational oversight over Magticom in February 2005,
including decisions related to the distribution of shareholder
dividends.

The Company projects that its current corporate cash reserves
and anticipated continuing dividends from Magticom will be
sufficient for the Company to meet, on a timely basis, its
currently planned Long Term Corporate Cash Outlay Requirements.
The Company intends to maintain minimal corporate cash balances
in the future, since the Company believes that the Magticom cash
reserves should be used for business development purposes in
Georgia and the surrounding Central Asian region.

External Sources of Liquidity   

The Company has a complicated equity capital structure. For
example, the Company s Preferred Stock is trading at a
substantial discount to its per share liquidation value. This
condition limits the Company s ability

11

Table of Contents   

to access the capital markets or is a significant deterrent for
the Company using its common stock as currency for business
development purposes.

During the past several years, the Company has relied upon cash
receipts from the sale of certain of its noncore business
ventures and, to a lesser extent, the repatriation of cash from
business ventures; in the form of dividend distributions or the
repayment of outstanding loans in order to meet its outstanding
legal liabilities and obligations. Furthermore, during 2005 the
Company relied upon a loan from its business partner in the
Magticom business venture to enable the Company to meet its
business development initiatives. Since the Company has
monetized its interest in all but three business ventures, the
Company must rely on dividends from its business ventures, cash
on hand or outside financing as the principal source of funding
for further business development. A material portion of
projected dividends will be required to meet future corporate
cash outlay requirements. Remaining funds may be insufficient to
substantially expand present businesses or acquire additional
businesses. This could result in eventual stagnation or erosion
in the value of the Company s underlying businesses (see
 Item 1A.  Risk Factors   The Company may face
limitations or additional costs in securing funds for further
business development ). 

Restatement of Prior Year Financial Information 

2005 Restatement Work
Effort  

The Company has restated its previously issued financial
statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2003
and 2002 to reflect correction of past accounting errors. In
addition to the restatements reported in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K,  the
Company has included (i) restated selected financial
information for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000,
and (ii) restated selected financial information for the
quarterly periods corresponding to the quarters ended
September 30, 2004 and 2003, June 30, 2004 and 2003,
March 31, 2004 and 2003 and December 31, 2003.
Financial information related to such periods within this Annual
Report on Form  10-K 
also has been restated to reflect correction of the past
accounting errors. The Company does not plan to file any other
amendments to previously filed Annual Reports on
Form  10-K  or
Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q.  Certain
of these restatements in respect of the quarterly periods ended
March 31, 2004, June 30, 2004 and September 30,
2004 will also be reported in Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  for the
quarterly periods ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005,
and September 30, 2005 that have not yet been filed.

The restatement of prior period financial statements was
initially the result of the Company s determination that it
had historically misapplied its consolidation policy to Telcell
Wireless, LLC ( Telcell ), an intermediate holding
company that was formed in 1996 for the purpose of owning 49% of
Magticom, which the Company had a 70.41% interest in and Western
Wireless had the remaining 29.59% ownership interest, until
September 2005. The Company reached this conclusion during
its work effort associated with analyzing the accounting and
disclosure consequences of the previously discussed February
2005 Magticom ownership restructuring (see    
Recent Developments   Reorganization of
Ownership Interest in Business Ventures in
Georgia   Magticom Ownership Activity  
February 2005   above). In summary, the Company prepared
an evaluation of various rights granted to minority shareholders
at each of the holding companies through which the Company held
its interest in Magticom to determine the appropriate
prospective accounting treatment of its ownership interest in
Magticom. Such analysis included rights granted to
Dr. George Jokhtaberidze, who owned, prior to June 1,
2006, 49.9% of the outstanding shares of International TC LLC
and rights granted to Western Wireless through their ownership
in Telcell.

The Company concluded that the following rights granted to
Western Wireless were substantive participating rights under the
Consensus Guidance provided by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board ( FASB ) Emerging Issues Task Force
( EITF ) as outlined in EITF Issue
No.  96-16, 
  Investor s Accounting for an Investee When the
Investor Has a Majority of the Voting Interest but the Minority
Shareholder or Shareholders Have Certain Approval or Veto
Rights   ( EITF
No.  96-16 ). 

The right to approve Magticom s purchase, lease or other
    acquisitions of assets or properties in excess of
    $0.5 million, a dollar threshold amount deemed to represent
    an ordinary course business transaction of Magticom; and 

12

Table of Contents   

The right to approve the budget of Magticom, which was
    Telcell s sole asset. 

As the managing member of Telcell since its formation, the
Company has actively managed Telcell s investment in
Magticom with only very limited direct participation by Western
Wireless. Specifically, since early 2002, all matters arising in
the ordinary course of Magticom s business requiring
Telcell s shareholder review or approval were addressed and
handled solely by the Company. Since that time, Western Wireless
requested only the Company s reports and assessments of
Magticom plans, operations and performance; and it concurred
without alteration and with very limited comment in all actions
taken by the Company with respect to Magticom s ordinary
course activities. No representatives of Western Wireless
traveled to Georgia or engaged with Magticom operating personnel
since early 2002. Despite its extremely limited involvement in
the actual operational affairs of Magticom, since Western
Wireless legally held certain rights in governance of Telcell
and Magticom which were deemed to be participatory, the Company
has concluded that its use of the consolidation method of
accounting, since Telcell s formation in 1996, was not
appropriate and that it should have followed equity method
accounting treatment for Telcell.

In the Company s June 3, 2005 press release that
announced its determination that it would need to restate its
past financial results for the accounting error related to its
historic accounting of its economic interest in Telcell, the
Company also announced that it had determined that it had
improperly accounted for the depreciation of fixed assets at
certain business ventures that were treated as discontinued
business components under the guidance of SFAS No. 144. As
the Company indicated in its press release, the Company
continued to recognize depreciation and amortization expense
associated with the long-lived assets of these business ventures
through the first quarter of 2004. The net effect of this error
in accounting was as follows:

An understatement of  Income from discontinued components,
    net  by $1.0 million within the Company s fourth
    quarter 2003 consolidated statement of operations; 

An understatement of  Income from discontinued components,
    net  by $0.2 million within the Company s first
    quarter 2004 consolidated statement of operations; and 

An overstatement of  Income from discontinued components,
    net  by $1.2 million within the Company s third
    quarter 2004 consolidated statement of operations. 

Upon identifying and correcting the above identified accounting
errors, the Company undertook a process to determine that no
further adjustments or disclosures were required to the
financial statements as of and for the three year period ended
December 31, 2004. Accordingly, the following is a summary
of additional procedures performed:

A detailed accounting analysis was performed to verify that the
    Company had correctly applied its consolidation policy to other
    legal entities (in excess of seventy legal entities) that it had
    consolidated during the five year period ended December 31,
    2004. This work effort involved: 

A review by the Company s General Counsel of each legal
    entity s organizational and governance documents (charter,
    by-laws, articles of incorporation, etc.) followed by a review
    by finance personnel of the rights afforded to minority
    shareholders as outlined by EITF No. 96-16 for all
    previously consolidated entities; and 

A review by finance personnel to determine whether the Company
    is a primary beneficiary, as defined pursuant to
    FIN No. 46R, of any of its business ventures. The
    Company s accounting policy stipulates that, if the Company
    is deemed the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity,
    the Company should follow consolidation method of accounting for
    such business venture under the guidelines of
    FIN No. 46R. The Company adopted FIN No. 46R
    as of March 31, 2004; 

Management reviewed all business ventures that had been
    historically presented as a discontinued business component,
    pursuant to SFAS No. 144, to ensure that depreciation
    and amortization was not recorded subsequent to the time period
    that the respective business ventures met the criteria of
    SFAS No. 144; and 

13

Table of Contents   

Management reviewed all past unadjusted accounting differences
    which were not recorded in previous accounting periods, since in
    each case and in the aggregate, the dollar amount of those past
    errors were not deemed material to those past consolidated
    financial statements, to determine whether the respective
    accounting adjustment should be recorded as a part of this
    restatement process. 

Upon completion of the above procedures, the Company concluded
that the following legal entities were incorrectly accounted for
following the  consolidation method of accounting  for
one or more accounting periods: AS Trio LSL, Sun TV, Roscomm
Limited, JV Technopark and Teleport TP. The following is a
summary of key facts that support the Company s current
accounting position with regard to the aforementioned legal
entities:

1. The Company analyzed rights granted to each minority
    shareholder under the charter and/or other governing documents
    for AS Trio LSL using the consensus guidance provided by EITF
    No.  96-16.  Upon
    completion of such analysis of EITF No. 96-16, the Company
    concluded that its historic accounting treatment for its
    interest in AS Trio LSL was incorrect for the period September
    2001 through June 2002. Such conclusion was reached as a result
    of the minority shareholder s rights to: 

approve the appointment of the general director of AS Trio LSL; 

approve the issuance of ordinary dividends of AS Trio LSL; 

approve the salaries of the general director of
    AS Trio LSL; and 

approve the termination of council (board) members of AS
    Trio LSL. 

Such rights were granted under the original charter; however,
    the Company was unable to cause AS Trio LSL to amend its
    original charter after the Company increased its ownership
    interest in AS Trio LSL to 50.24% in September 2001 until June
    2002, concurrent with an additional increase in the
    Company s ownership interest in AS Trio LSL to an
    aggregate holding of 67.02%. Such amendment allowed the
    prospective consolidation of AS Trio LSL from June
    2002 through the date of its disposal in September 2004 since
    the minority shareholder rights were amended to be only
     protective rights  

2. The Company analyzed rights granted to each minority
    shareholder under the charter and/or other governing documents
    for Sun TV using the consensus guidance provided by EITF
    No.  96-16.  Upon
    completion of such analysis of EITF No. 96-16, the Company
    concluded that its historic accounting treatment for its
    interest in Sun TV was incorrect for the period beginning
    January 2001 through May 2003. Such conclusion was reached as a
    result of the minority shareholder s rights to: 

approve dividends declared by Sun TV; 

approve the appointment of the general manager of Sun TV; 

approve the election of the executive body of Sun TV; 

approve the salaries of the administration counsel of Sun TV; and 

approve the termination of employees of Sun TV. 

Such rights were granted under the original charter; however,
    the Company was unable to cause Sun TV to amend its
    original charter after the Company increased its ownership
    interest in Sun TV to 90.93% in June 2000 until May 2003,
    concurrent with a reorganization of the shareholdings in Sun TV,
    whereby the Company s ownership interest decreased to 65%.
    Such amendment allowed the prospective consolidation of Sun TV
    from May 2003 through the date of its disposal in November 2003,
    since the minority shareholder rights were amended to be only
     protective rights  

3. Roscomm Limited was a holding company with its sole
    asset being its 10% interest in Teleport TP. The Company
    analyzed rights granted to the minority shareholders under the
    charter and/or 

14

Table of Contents   

other governing documents for Roscomm Limited using the
    consensus guidance provided by EITF
    No.  96-16.  Upon
    completion of such analysis of EITF
    No.  96-16,  the
    Company concluded that its historic accounting treatment for its
    interest in Roscomm Limited was incorrect for the period
    September 30, 1999 through March 31, 2002. Such
    conclusion was reached as a result of the Company s
    inability during that period to control the appointment or
    termination of the sole director of Roscomm Limited; 

4. JV Technopark was a holding company with its primary
    asset being its 7.5% interest in Teleport TP. The Company
    analyzed rights granted to the minority shareholders under the
    charter and/or other governing documents for JV Technopark using
    the consensus guidance provided by EITF
    No.  96-16.  Upon
    completion of such analysis of EITF
    No.  96-16,  the
    Company concluded that its historic accounting treatment for its
    interest in JV Technopark was incorrect for the period
    September 30, 1999 through March 31, 2002. Such
    conclusion was reached as a result of the minority
    shareholders  rights to: 

control the election and termination of the chairman of the
    board, who was also the general director of JV Technopark; and 

approve the dividends declared by JV Technopark; and 

5. The Company had ownership rights to 49.94% of Teleport
    TP and had previously presumed that it had controlled voting
    rights to 56.0% of the shares of Teleport TP. However, as a
    result of the conclusions reached in items 3 and 4 above,
    the Company only controlled voting rights to 38.5% of the
    outstanding shares of Teleport TP; thus, the Company would not
    have had control as defined by Accounting Research
    Bulletin No. 51,  Consolidated Financial
    Statements.  

Furthermore, the Company analyzed rights granted to each
    minority shareholder under the original charter and/or other
    governing documents for Teleport TP using the consensus guidance
    provided by EITF
    No.  96-16.  Upon
    completion of such analysis of EITF
    No.  96-16,  the
    Company also concluded that it would be unable to consolidate
    the results of Teleport TP for the period from
    September 30, 1999 through March 31, 2002. The
    Company s analysis indicated that minority
    shareholder s had the right to approve assets purchased by
    Teleport TP in excess of $0.1 million, a dollar threshold
    amount deemed to represent an ordinary course business
    transaction of Teleport TP. Teleport TP became a
    subsidiary of the Company on September 30, 1999, as a
    result of the acquisition of PLD Telekom, Inc. ( PLD )
    by the Company. Teleport TP was formed in 1992 and its charter
    was never amended with respect to minority shareholder rights.
    At the time of the acquisition of PLD, PLD had followed the
    consolidation method of accounting for its interest in
    Teleport TP. Further, in response to questions from the
    United States Securities and Exchange Commission
    ( SEC ) in 1999 associated with their review of the
    1999 merger proxy statement regarding the Company s pending
    acquisition of PLD, the Company informed the SEC that PLD
    management believed that the consolidation method of accounting
    was appropriate for Teleport TP using the consensus guidance
    provided by EITF
    No.  96-16.  

The Company ceased consolidation of Teleport TP as of
    March 31, 2002 as a result of the dispute with the sole
    director of Roscomm Limited. However, in light of the rights
    provided to minority shareholders at Roscomm Limited and rights
    granted to minority shareholders at JV Technopark and the
    Company s understanding of the guidance contained within
    EITF No.  96-16, 
    the Company has concluded that upon the consummation of the
    acquisition of PLD, that it should have followed the equity
    method of accounting. 

As stated previously, the Company identified certain errors in
its consolidated financial statements prior to filing its
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004
and determined that it would restate its previous financial
results to correct such errors. Those accounting errors are
grouped into the following categories:  Consolidation
Adjustments  and  Other Accounting Adjustments ,
which consist of  Accounting errors that had been made in
its past financial statements and have been adjusted to the
accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2002  and
 Accounting errors that had been made in its financial
statements as of and for the two year period ended
December 31, 2003 .

15

Table of Contents   

The effects of the adjustments for the accounting errors
described above on the Company s Consolidated Statements of
Operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets are summarized in the
following financial results tables (in 000 s), except per
share amounts:

16

Table of Contents   

17

Table of Contents   

18

Table of Contents   

Notes to Year Ended financial results tables :  

(1) The following adjustments reflect the effects of
correcting for the improper consolidation of certain legal
entities (including Telcell, which held an equity interest in
Magticom).

(2) The following adjustments reflect the effects of
correcting the accounting errors that had been made in the
Company s past financial statements and have been reflected
as a net adjustment of $178,000 to increase accumulated deficit
as of January 1, 2002:

a.  The Company failed to accrue interest income of
    $33,000 earned on a deposit placed with a professional service
    provider for periods prior to December 31, 2001. The
    Company recognized an increase in its  other assets 
    and a corresponding decrease in  accumulated deficit 
    as of January 1, 2002;  

b.  The Company identified certain selling, general and
    administrative items that should not have been recognized and
    accrued as of December 31, 2001. Such amounts resulted in
    the Company recognizing a decrease in  accrued
    expenses  of $200,000 and a corresponding decrease to its
     accumulated deficit  as of January 1, 2002;  

c.  The Company recognized the write off of an
    uncollectible loan in the year ended December 31, 2002.
    Such loan should have been written-off to expense in the year
    ended December 31, 2001. Accordingly, the Company has
    recognized a decrease in  prepaid expenses and other
    assets  of $146,000 and a corresponding increase to its
     accumulated deficit  as of January 1, 2002;  

d.  The Company identified that certain of its business
    ventures accounted for on the equity method of accounting failed
    to recognize certain expenses or recognized excess expenses.
    Such adjustments resulted in the Company recognizing a net
    increase to its  investments in and advances to business
    ventures  of $38,000, a net decrease of $112,000 to its
     business ventures held for sale  and a corresponding
    increase of $74,000 to its  accumulated deficit  as of
    January 1, 2002;  

e.  The Company failed to recognize certain expenses and
    translated certain expenses improperly when translating from the
    functional currency into the U.S. dollar reporting currency
    for certain discontinued business components. Such adjustments
    resulted in a decrease of $13,000 to  assets of
    discontinued components , an increase of $165,000 to
     current liabilities of discontinued components , a
    decrease in  accumulated other comprehensive loss  of
    $13,000 and a corresponding increase of $191,000 to
     accumulated deficit  as of January 1, 2002;
    and  

f.  The Company identified that it had erroneously
    included unrecognized net actuarial losses when recognizing its
    liability for the Company s post retirement medical benefit
    plan. The Company recognized a decrease in  other long-term
    liabilities  of $365,000 and a corresponding decrease in
     accumulated other comprehensive loss  as of
    January 1, 2002.  

(3) The following adjustments reflect the effects of
correcting the accounting errors that had been made in the
Company s financial statements as of and for the two year
period ended December 31, 2003:

a. The Company failed to appropriately calculate its
    deferred revenue in accordance with the Company s revenue
    recognition policy for the Ayety business venture. As a result,
    the Company has increased  revenues  by $92,000 for
    the year ended December 31, 2002 and recognized a
    corresponding decrease in  revenues  of $92,000 for
    the year ended December 31, 2003;  

19

Table of Contents   

b. The Company did not follow its accounting policy when
    deferring installation costs for services performed as of
    December 31, 2002 for the PeterStar business venture. Such
    ratio was corrected during 2003. Accordingly, the Company has
    increased its  cost of services  and increased its
     deferred revenues  by $108,000 as of and for the year
    ended December 31, 2002. The Company recognized a
    corresponding decrease to  cost of services  for the
    year ended December 31, 2003;  

c. The Company identified certain cost of service items
    that should have been recognized and accrued in different
    accounting periods for the Ayety business venture. Such amounts
    resulted in the Company recognizing a decrease in  cost of
    services  of $17,000 for the year ended December 31,
    2002 and a corresponding increase in  cost of
    services  of $17,000 for the year ended December 31,
    2003;  

d. The Company failed to correctly accrue vacation pay
    for employees at its PeterStar business venture. As a result,
    the Company increased its  cost of services  and
    increased its  accrued expenses  by $6,000 as of and
    for the year ended December 31, 2003;  

e. The Company identified certain selling, general and
    administrative items that should have been recognized and
    accrued in different accounting periods. Such amounts resulted
    in the Company recognizing a decrease in  selling, general
    and administrative  expenses of $221,000 and $132,000 for
    the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003, respectively
    and an increase of $40,000 in  gain on disposition of
    equity business ventures  for the year ended
    December 31, 2003. The net effect of these adjustments
    resulted in an increase of $38,000 to  prepaid expenses and
    other assets  and a decrease of $355,000 to  accrued
    expenses  as of December 31, 2003. When combined with
    the effects of similar adjustments made prior to January 1,
    2002 that have a continuing impact, the net adjustment to the
    balance sheet at December 31, 2003 is an increase of
    $38,000 to  prepaid expenses and other assets  and a
    decrease of $555,000 to  accrued expenses   

f. As noted previously in (2)(c.) above, the Company
    recognized the write off of an uncollectible loan in the year
    ended December 31, 2002. Such loan should have been
    written-off to expense in the year ended December 31, 2001.
    Accordingly, the Company has recognized a decrease in
     selling general and administrative  expenses of
    $146,000 for the year ended December 31, 2002;  

g. The Company improperly capitalized certain repair
    costs as fixed asset acquisitions during the year ended
    December 31, 2003 for the PeterStar business venture. As a
    result, the Company recognized an increase in  selling,
    general and administrative  expenses of $209,000 for the
    year ended December 31, 2003 and a corresponding decrease
    in  property, plant and equipment  as of
    December 31, 2003;  

h. The Company recognized depreciation expense at its
    Ayety business venture in excess of the amount based upon the
    estimated economic lives for certain network assets. As a
    result, the Company recognized a reduction of
     depreciation  expense of $1,096,000 for the year
    ended December 31, 2002. For the year ended
    December 31, 2002, the Company recognized an impairment
    charge to reduce the fixed assets of Ayety to their estimated
    fair value. As a result of the adjustment to depreciation
    expense, the Company has recognized a corresponding increase to
    its  asset impairment  expense of $1,096,000 for the
    year ended December 31, 2002;  

i. The Company improperly amortized indefinite lived
    intangible assets at its PeterStar business venture. The
    correction of such amortization resulted in a reduction to
     amortization expense  of $3,000 and $51,000 for the
    years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003, respectively. The
    Company recognized a corresponding increase to intangible assets
    for each affected period;  

j. The Company determined that during the year ended
    December 31, 2002 it had improperly recognized an
    impairment charge of $441,000 related to goodwill attributable
    to its investment in its PeterStar business venture. The Company
    has corrected such expense, which resulted in a reduction of
     asset impairment  expense of $441,000 for the year
    ended December 31, 2002 and a corresponding increase in
     goodwill  as of December 31, 2002 and all
    subsequent periods;  

k. Certain of the Company s business ventures
    accounted for on the equity method of accounting failed to
    recognize certain expenses and/or revenues in the appropriate
    accounting periods. Such  

20

Table of Contents   

adjustments resulted in the Company recognizing a net
    increase to its  equity in losses of unconsolidated
    investees  of $227,000 for the year ended December 31,
    2002. In addition, such adjustments resulted in the Company
    recognizing a net decrease to  equity in income of
    unconsolidated investees  of $238,000 for the year ended
    December 31, 2003. As a result of these adjustments, upon
    disposition of the relevant entities, the Company recognized an
    increase in  gains of disposition of equity investee
    business ventures  of $198,000 and $540,000 for the years
    ended December 31, 2002 and 2003, respectively. The net
    effect of these adjustments resulted in an increase of $161,000
    to  investments in and advances to business ventures 
    and an increase of $112,000 to  business ventures held for
    sale (noncurrent)  as of December 31, 2003. When
    combined with the effects of similar adjustments made prior to
    January 1, 2002 that have a continuing impact, the net
    adjustment to the balance sheet at December 31, 2003 is an
    increase of $199,000 to  investments in and advances to
    business ventures   

l. As noted previously in (2)(a.)above, the Company
    failed to accrue interest income of $5,000 earned on a deposit
    placed with a professional service provider for the years ended
    December 31, 2002 and 2003. The correction of such error
    resulted in the Company recognizing an additional $5,000
     interest income  in each of the periods and a
    corresponding increase in  other assets  as of
    December 31, 2002 and 2003;  

m. As a result of adjustments recognized at legal
    entities in which there was a minority shareholder, the Company
    recognized a decrease in  minority interest  expense
    of $24,000 and $34,000 for the years ended December 31,
    2002 and 2003, respectively and a corresponding decrease of
    $58,000 in  minority interest  as of December 31,
    2003;  

n. As a result of net pre-tax adjustments recognized,
    the Company recognized a decrease in  income tax 
    expense of $43,000 and $89,000 for the years ended
    December 31, 2002 and 2003, respectively and a
    corresponding decrease of $132,000 in  accrued
    expenses  as of December 31, 2003;  

o. The Company failed to recognize certain expenses and
    failed to translate certain expenses properly when translating
    from their functional currency into the U.S. dollar
    reporting currency for certain discontinued business components.
    In addition, as previously noted, the Company failed to cease
    recognition of depreciation expense for certain of these
    businesses upon their classification as a discontinued business
    component. The recognition of such adjustments resulted in an
    increase in the  loss from discontinued components  of
    $633,000 for the year ended December 31, 2002 and an
    increase in  income from discontinued components  of
    $1,960,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003. The net
    effect of these adjustments resulted in an increase of $31,000
    to  current assets of discontinued components , an
    increase of $1,117,000 to  noncurrent assets of
    discontinued components , a decrease of $166,000 to
     current liabilities of discontinued components  and
    an increase of $13,000 to  accumulated other comprehensive
    loss  as of December 31, 2003. When combined with the
    effects of similar adjustments made prior to January 1,
    2002 that have a continuing impact, the net adjustment to the
    balance sheet at December 31, 2003 is an increase of
    $18,000 to  current assets of discontinued components 
    and an increase of $1,117,000 to  noncurrent assets of
    discontinued components   

p. Due to adjustments recognized at business ventures
    previously recognized on a three-month reporting lag, the
    Company recognized an increase of $11,000 in the
     cumulative effect of a change in accounting
    principle  and the  investments in and advances to
    business ventures  for the year ended December 31,
    2003;  

q. As noted previously in (2)(f.) above, the Company
    identified that it had erroneously included unrecognized net
    actuarial losses when recognizing its liability for the
    Company s post retirement medical benefit plan. The Company
    recognized a decrease in  other long-term liabilities 
    of $367,000 and a corresponding decrease in  accumulated
    other comprehensive loss  as of December 31, 2003.  

r. In addition to the items discussed above, the Company
    has reclassified certain items on the Consolidated Balance
    Sheet, including reclassification of all assets and liabilities
    of discontinued components to current, to be consistent with
    current period presentation and recognized the foreign currency
    translation adjustments of the above items. Such
    reclassifications resulted in a decrease of $492,000 to
     prepaid expenses and other assets , an increase of
    $21,202,000 to  current assets of discontinued
    components , an increase of $536,000 to  business
    ventures held for sale  (current), an  

21

Table of Contents   

22

Table of Contents   

The effects of the adjustments for the accounting errors
described above on the Company s Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows are summarized in the following tables (in
000 s):

23

Table of Contents   

24

Table of Contents   

Notes to annual cash flows tables:   

1. The adjustments included in the consolidation and
reclassification adjustments reflect the effects of correcting
for the erroneous consolidation of certain legal entities
(principally Telcell). The Company has separately disclosed the
changes in prepaid expenses and other assets, which were
previously netted against other long-term assets and
liabilities. In addition, the Company has in all periods
restated the cash flows to include  dividends and interest
received from unconsolidated investees  as an operating
activity, which in prior periods were included with  loan
principal repayment received from unconsolidated investees 
as a combined amount of  distribution from business
ventures  within the investing activities. Lastly, the
Company has in all periods presented separately disclosed the
operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flow
attributable to its discontinued components, which in prior
periods were reported on a combined basis as a single amount.

2. The adjustments to the previously discussed year end
financial results also resulted in reclassifications of cash
used within operating activities for the respective years,
except for the improper capitalization of certain repair costs
during the year ended December 31, 2003, which resulted in
an increase in cash used in operating activities of $209,000 and
an increase in cash provided by investing activities.

25

Table of Contents   

The effects of the adjustments for the accounting errors
described above on the Company s Condensed Consolidated
Quarterly Statements of Operations are summarized in the
following financial results tables (in 000 s), except per
share amounts:

26

Table of Contents   

27

Table of Contents   

28

Table of Contents   

29

Table of Contents   

30

Table of Contents   

31

Table of Contents   

32

Table of Contents   

Notes to quarterly financial results tables :  

(1) The adjustments included in the consolidation
corrections reflect the effects of correcting for the erroneous
consolidation of certain legal entities (principally Telcell).

(2) As previously discussed, the following adjustments
reflect the effects of correcting the accounting errors that had
been made in the Company s financial statements for the
quarterly periods ended March 31, 2003 through
September 30, 2004:

a. The Company failed to appropriately calculate its
    deferred revenue in accordance with the Company s revenue
    recognition policy for the Ayety business venture. As a result,
    the Company has decreased  revenues  by $92,000 for
    the three month period ended March 31, 2003;  

b. The Company did not follow its accounting policy when
    deferring installation costs for services performed as of
    December 31, 2002 for the PeterStar business venture. Such
    ratio was corrected during 2003. Accordingly, the Company has
    recorded a reduction of $108,000 to  cost of services 
    for the three months ended March 31, 2003;  

c. The Company identified certain cost of service items
    that should have been recognized and accrued in different
    accounting periods for the Ayety business venture. Such amounts
    resulted in the Company recognizing an increase in  cost of
    services  of $17,000 for the three months ended March 31,
    2003;  

d. The Company failed to correctly accrue vacation pay
    for employees at its PeterStar business venture. As a result,
    the Company increased its  cost of services  by $6,000
    for the three months ended March 31, 2003 and March 31, 2004;  

e. The Company has identified certain selling, general
    and administrative items that should have been recognized and
    accrued in different accounting periods. Such amounts resulted
    in the Company recognizing an increase in  selling, general
    and administrative  expenses of $503,000; $207,000 and
    $545,000 for the three month periods ended March 31, 2003,
    December 31, 2003, and March 31, 2004, respectively.
    In addition, such amounts resulted in the Company decreasing
     selling general and administrative  expenses of
    $327,000; $320,000; $13,000 and $27,000 for the three month
    periods ended June 30, 2003, September 30, 2003,
    June 30, 2004 and September 30, 2004, respectively;  

f. The Company improperly amortized indefinite life
    intangible assets at its PeterStar business venture. The
    correction of such amortization resulted in a reduction to
     amortization expense  of $51,000 for the three month
    period ended March 31, 2003 and a $6,000 reduction for each
    of the three month periods ended March 31, 2004,
    June 30, 2004 and September 30, 2004. In addition, the
    Company improperly capitalized certain repairs to property,
    plant and equipment at its PeterStar business venture. As a
    result, the Company recognized a reduction to  depreciation
    expense  of $27,000 for the three month period ended
    March 31, 2004;  

g. The Company s business ventures accounted for on
    the equity method of accounting failed to recognize certain
    expenses and/or revenues in the correct accounting period. Such
    adjustments resulted in the Company recognizing a net increase
    to its  equity in income of unconsolidated investees 
    of $37,000; $252,000 and $193,000 for the three month periods
    ended March 31, 2003, June 30, 2003, and
    March 31, 2004, respectively. Furthermore, such adjustments
    resulted in the Company recognizing a net decrease to its
     equity in income of unconsolidated investees  of
    $481,000; $46,000; $34,000 and $38,000 for the three month
    periods ended September 30, 2003, December 31, 2003,
    June 30, 2004, and September 30, 2004,
    respectively;  

h. The Company failed to accrue interest income on a
    deposit placed with a professional service provider. The
    correction of such errors resulted in the Company recognizing an
    additional $5,000 and $4,000  interest income  for the
    three month periods ended March 31, 2003 and 2004
    respectively;  

i. As a result of adjustments recognized at legal
    entities in which the Company accounted for such business on the
    equity method of accounting, upon disposition of the relevant
    legal entities, the Company  

33

Table of Contents   

(3) As reported within the Company s Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2003, which excludes certain
reclassifications as noted in item (4) below. The
equivalent reclassifications are included in  Other
Accounting Adjustments  for the three months ended
December 31, 2003. Thus, the sum of individual line items
for the four quarterly periods of 2003 do not total to the
adjustments to the annual results for the year ended
December 31, 2003.

(4) As reported in the Company s Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  for the
periods ended March 31, June 30, and
September 30, 2004, which include certain reclassifications
of 2003 quarterly information to be consistent with the
presentation of 2004 quarterly information.

2003 Restatement Work
Effort  

While preparing the Company s Quarterly Report on
Form  10-Q  for the
period ended September 30, 2003, the Company determined
that certain accounting errors had been made in its previously
issued financial statements. These accounting errors related to
the Company s accounting treatment for corporate income
taxes and dividends associated with the Company s Preferred
Stock. The Company corrected its previously issued financial
statements in February 2004 for these accounting errors by
filing an amendment to the Company s Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 and filing an amendment
to the Company s Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  for the
quarterly periods ended March 31,

34

Table of Contents   

2003 and June 30, 2003  (see Item 1A.  Risk
Factors   Company s 2003 and 2005 Restatement
Work Efforts  and Item 9A.  Controls and
Procedures ). 

Sales of Businesses 

As previously indicated, at the beginning of 2004, the Company
still held for sale certain business ventures consisting of
nineteen radio broadcast stations operating in Finland, Hungary,
Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia and the Czech Republic and four cable
television networks operating in Lithuania, Romania, Russia and
Belarus. Pursuant to a decision of the Board of Directors made
September 30, 2003 approving management s
recommendation to dispose of all of the aforementioned non-core
business interests, the Company concluded that these businesses
ventures met the criteria for classification as discontinued
business components as outlined in SFAS No. 144.
Accordingly, as of December 31, 2003, the statement of
operations of the Company for current and prior periods has
presented the results of operations of these Non-Core Business
Ventures, including any gain or loss recognized on disposition,
in income (loss) from discontinued components line item and the
balance sheet presents the assets and liabilities of such
operations as assets and liabilities of discontinued components.

In February 2003, and in connection with initiation of the
previously disclosed Restructuring, the Company engaged
Communications Equity Associates ( CEA ) in an
advisory capacity to assist the Company in marketing its cable
television and radio broadcast businesses, which included the
aforementioned Non-Core Business Ventures owned at the beginning
of 2004. With the aid of CEA, the Company successfully completed
sales of the principal remaining Non-Core Business Ventures by
year-end 2004. A summary of business venture dispositions from
January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004 is presented in
the following table.

(1)  
     
    Metromedia International Inc. ( MII ) was a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company which held the
    Company s interests in seventeen of the Company s
    eighteen radio businesses operating in Bulgaria, the Czech
    Republic, Estonia, Finland and Hungary. The initial agreed upon
    price of MII of $14.25 million, which was subsequently
    reduced to $13.9 million as a result of a post-closing
    adjustment. Subsequent to December 31, 2004, the Company
    entered into agreements and sold Dotcom, an Internet software
    development business in Estonia, and Juventus Radio 100.2
    M sorszolg ltat  Kft, the remaining radio
    business of the Company, which operates in Hungary, for an
    aggregate consideration of $0.33 million. 

Preferred Stock 

As of December 31, 2004 and March 31, 2006, total
dividends in arrears on the Company s 4.1 million
outstanding shares of Preferred Stock were $64.7 million
and $90.1 million, respectively. The amount of additional
dividends that will accumulate for the nine months ended
December 31, 2006 will be $16.4 million, including the
effects of compounding and assuming there are no payments of the
dividends. Although opportunities to restructure the Preferred
Stock have been evaluated, present Company plans presume the
continued deferral of the payment of dividends on the
outstanding Preferred Stock to enable the Company to focus on
business development opportunities in Georgia and the
surrounding Central Asian region. (see     
Recent Developments   Georgian Business Development
Initiatives   Magticom Georgian License Activity ). 

35

Table of Contents   

As long as the Company s Preferred Stock remains as
currently structured, the Company s net income (loss)
attributable to common stockholders will be negatively impacted.
For the twelve months ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002, the Company s net loss attributable to common
stockholders of $36.8 million, $4.6 million and
$124.5 million, respectively, included the recognition of
Preferred Stock dividend requirements of $18.8 million,
$17.5 million and $16.3 million, respectively. The
Company cannot provide assurances at this time that a
restructuring of the Company s Preferred Stock will be
consummated or, if consummated, that such effort would produce a
material improvement in common shareholder equity valuation (see
 Item 1A.  Risk Factors   The
Company s earnings per common share attributable to
stockholders is negatively impacted by the Company s
outstanding Preferred Stock  ).

Preferred Stockholder Director Nominees 

According to the terms of the Preferred Stock, in the event the
Company does not make six consecutive dividend payments on the
Preferred Stock, holders of 25% of the outstanding Preferred
Stock can compel the Company to call a special meeting of the
holders of the Preferred Stock for the purpose of electing two
new directors to the Company s Board of Directors. As of
September 15, 2002, the Company had failed to make six
consecutive Preferred Stock dividend payments. In June 2004, the
Company reached an agreement (the  Board of Director
Nominee Agreement ) with certain holders of the Preferred
Stock representing discretionary authority (including the power
to vote) with regard to 2.4 million shares, or
approximately 58%, of the outstanding 4.1 million shares of
Preferred Stock (the  Participating Preferred Stock
Holders ). Under the terms of the Board of Director Nominee
Agreement, the Participating Preferred Stock Holders irrevocably
waived the right to request a special meeting of holders of
Preferred Stock to elect directors or take any action to request
such a meeting until immediately after the next annual meeting
of the Company s stockholders is held. In consideration of
this waiver, Messrs. David Gale and Wayne Henderson, who
were identified by the Participating Preferred Stock Holders as
director candidates, were elected as Class III Directors by
the Company s Board of Directors. Their terms will expire
at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders. At
the next annual meeting of the Company s stockholders, the
holders of Preferred Stock will have the right to vote
separately as a class for the election of two directors.

Company s Ability to Timely File Future Reports with the
SEC and Comply with Section 404  Management Assessment
of Internal Controls  of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
( SOX 404 ) 

Effective June 30, 2005, the Company s market
capitalization exceeded $75 million but was under
$700 million. As a result, the Company is considered an
accelerated filer with regards to both its obligations for the
filing of periodic reports with the SEC under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ),
and for complying with the provisions of SOX 404 for purposes of
filing its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2005 ( 2005 Form 10-K ).
At present, the Company has not completed its evaluation of its
obligations for complying with the provisions for SOX 404 with
respect to fiscal year 2005.

Company s Ability to Timely File Future Reports with
    the SEC   

The Company has not yet filed its
Form  10-Q s 
for the fiscal quarters ended March 31 2005, June 30,
2005 and September 30, 2005 with the SEC (the  2005
Form  10-Q s  
its 2005
Form  10-K,  which
was required to be filed with the SEC by March 16, 2006
(within seventy-five days of December 31, 2005); and its
Quarterly Report on
Form  10-Q  for the
quarterly periods ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006
and September 30, 2006 (the  2006
Form  10-Q s ), 
(see   Item 1A. Risks Factors   The
Company has not timely filed its required periodic reports with
the SEC and cannot provide assurances as to when this condition
will be fully remedied ) .

The situation is principally the result of the Company s
inability to prepare and finalize, on a timely basis, the
U.S. GAAP financial results for the Company s business
ventures. However, the restatement process that the Company has
recently completed has exacerbated this issue (see
    Restatement of Prior Year Financial
Information   2005 Restatement Work Effort ) ,
since corporate finance personnel have not been able to spend
sufficient time assisting the business venture finance personnel
in their U.S. GAAP reporting workflow

36

Table of Contents   

processes, due to the work effort that was required to complete
the 2005 restatement work effort. In addition, during this time
period corporate finance personnel have focused significant
attention to the Company s SOX 404 compliance work
effort (see Company s Compliance with SOX 404 below),
since the Company became subject to the SOX 404
requirements on June 30, 2005.

Inadequate Local Financial Accounting Workflow Processes
    and Accounting Information Systems   Significant
    Impediment For Timely U.S. GAAP Reporting   

In regards to the Company s existing business ventures,
their respective local financial accounting workflow processes
and accounting information systems are inadequate for the timely
preparation of U.S. GAAP financial accounting and reporting (see
 Item 1A.  Risk Factors   The Company has
not timely filed its required periodic reports with the SEC and
cannot provide assurances as to when this condition will be
fully remedied -Comparative Limitations in Georgian Business
Practice   Inadequacies in Business Venture Financial
Accounting Workflow Processes and   Inadequacies in
Business Venture Accounting Information
Systems   ). As a result of these inadequacies in
financial accounting and reporting, the preparation of U.S. GAAP
financial results, based on the local books of account and
records of those business ventures, has required significant
participation by corporate finance personnel. In summary,
corporate finance personnel have been required to directly
engage in the workflow process of transforming the local
statutory accounting records to U.S. GAAP financial results.

Although the local financial accounting workflow processes and
corresponding accounting information systems are sufficient for
local statutory and tax reporting purposes, they are, as
previously discussed, inadequate for the timely preparation of
U.S. GAAP financial accounting and reporting. The local
financial accounting workflow has been designed to meet the
business ventures  respective statutory tax reporting
requirements. As a result, accounting transactions are often not
recorded timely ( months  vs.  days ) within
the statutory accounts due to the delay in receipt of sufficient
documentation, both third party and internally generated, to
record those respective transactions. Furthermore, the statutory
accounting workflow process is fundamentally  cash 
vs.  accrual  based.

Compounding this issue is the fact that the local accounting
information systems were designed for the local statutory tax
reporting purposes. Accordingly, preparation of the financial
management accounting and reporting for the Company s
business ventures requires significant effort outside of the
installed accounting software packages, due to limitations of
the respective local accounting software packages. Thus, the
finance personnel rely heavily upon spreadsheet and database
software packages that are not integrated with the local
accounting software system. This workflow environment is
manually intensive, subject to the risk of human error and
creates a situation whereby the ability to properly analyze
detailed account activity during the review process is arduous,
thus creating significant delays in the review process.

The Magticom business venture is currently implementing an
enterprise reporting package ( ERP ), that once
implemented should assist in the timely preparation of financial
management and reporting; however, this is a process that will
require significant effort with a  best case 
implementation date of January 1, 2007.

Insufficient U.S. GAAP Trained Accounting Personnel  

The Company does not presently have sufficient financial
personnel and resources within Georgia to prepare and finalize,
on a timely basis, the U.S. GAAP financial results for the
Company s business ventures. The recruitment and retention
of qualified U.S. GAAP accountants in Georgia is difficult
due to the high demand for individuals with these skills in this
part of the world. (see  Item 1A.  Risk
Factors   The Company has not timely filed its
required periodic reports with the SEC and cannot provide
assurances as to when this condition will be fully
remedied   Lack of Qualified Finance
Personnel ). 

The Company has not reached a final conclusion as to the
required scope of its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005. The Company currently

37

Table of Contents   

believes that internal control at its business ventures is not
required to be included in management s assessment, based
on its interpretation of the scoping requirements of SOX 404.
However, there exists the possibility that the Company will be
required to apply the internal control assessment requirements
of SOX 404 to its business ventures in Georgia as of
December 31, 2005.

In addition, due to the significant effort that the corporate
finance personnel have had to put into the aforementioned
restatement process and the limited number of corporate finance
personnel available, significant work effort had not been put
into management s assessment at the Company s
corporate headquarters prior to December 31, 2005. In early
2006, the Company retained additional finance personnel, both
fulltime employees and consultants/contractors, to assist in
completing the work effort associated with its currently
anticipated SOX 404 requirements as of December 31, 2005.

However, should the Company s scoping analysis for
completion of its SOX 404 compliance work as of
December 31, 2005 be deemed deficient, the Company expects
significant challenges and time delays in applying such
procedures to its business ventures in Georgia, due principally
to the additional challenges in Georgia noted below. However,
the Company does expect that an assessment will be completed.

Regardless of the Company s ultimate conclusions about
whether controls at its business ventures is required to be
within the scope of its assessment as of December 31, 2005,
the Company s independent auditors have informed the
Company that they will not be in a position to render an opinion
on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. The
Company s independent auditors have informed the Company
that they have reached this conclusion since they have not yet
commenced their audit of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005.

In any event, based on the Company s assessment to date,
the Company believes that when the Company completes its
assessment, it will report that it had material weaknesses in
its internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005 and continues to have such material
weaknesses as of the date of the filing of this Form 10-K
(see  Item 1A.  Risks Factors   The
Company has not timely filed its required periodic reports with
the SEC and cannot provide assurances as to when this condition
will be fully remedied  ).

With respect to the Company s Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 (the  2006
Form  10-K ), 
the Company presently anticipates that its ability to meet its
SOX 404 internal control compliance requirements for fiscal
year 2006 represents a significant challenge since the Company
will be required to apply the internal control assessment
requirements of SOX 404 to its business ventures. As such,
and at present, the Company contemplates that the filing of the
2006 Form  10-K 
with the SEC might be subject to significant delay. The
completion of the internal control assessment requirements of
SOX 404 for the Company s business ventures represents a
significant challenge, since:

present Georgian business practices are substantially less
    sophisticated than those common in the United States; 

cultural and educational precedents for application of common
    U.S. business practices are also generally absent or minimally
    developed in both the Georgian private and public sectors; and 

the finance staff of the Company s business ventures, which
    is almost entirely locally recruited and trained, may not be
    able to complete the tasks that will be required of them. 

As indicated earlier, the Company has been able to retain
additional finance personnel, both fulltime employees and
consultants/contractors, to assist in meeting its financial
reporting obligations and to also assist Magticom finance
personnel with the implementation of its new ERP system;
however, the additional recruitment of finance personnel to work
within the country of Georgia is required.

Furthermore, the Company anticipates that the costs that it will
incur to meet these requirements will be very substantial in
fiscal year 2006, 2007 and beyond. (see  Item 1A.
 Risks Factors   The Company has not timely filed
its required periodic reports with the SEC and cannot provide
assurances as to when this condition will be fully
remedied ). 

38

Table of Contents   

Delisting 

On February 25, 2003, the Company received notice from the
staff of the American Stock Exchange (the  Exchange 
or  AMEX ) indicating that the Exchange filed an
application with the SEC on February 20, 2003, to strike
the Company s common stock and Preferred Stock from listing
and registration on the Exchange, effective at the opening of
the trading session on March 3, 2003.

From March 3, 2003 through September 23, 2003, the
Company s equity securities were quoted on the
OTC Bulletin Board trading system ( OTCBB 
however, on September 24, 2003, the Company s equity
securities were removed from quotation on the OTCBB because the
Company was not then in compliance with NASD Rule 6530, due
to the Company s failure to file its Quarterly Report on
Form  10-Q  for the
quarter ended June 30, 2003 with the SEC by
September 23, 2003. As a result, the Company s common
stock and Preferred Stock were then quoted in the  Pink
Sheets.  On June 18, 2004, the Company filed its first
quarter 2004
Form  10-Q,  and
became compliant with OTCBB trading eligibility requirements. As
such, on August 6, 2004, the Company s common stock
(OTCBB: MTRM.OB) began trading on the OTCBB after a market
maker had successfully filed a petition with the NASD seeking
their permission for the Company s common stock to be
quoted on the OTCBB. The Company s Preferred Stock (OTCPK:
MTRMP) remained quoted in the Pink Sheets.

On April 20, 2005, the OTCBB trading system appended the
Company s common stock trading symbol by adding an
 E  modifier, due to the Company s delinquency in
filing its Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. At the close of
business on May 23, 2005 the Company s common stock
was removed from quotation on the OTCBB because the Company was
not then in compliance with NASD Rule 6530, due to the
Company s failure to file its Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 with the SEC. As a
result, the Company s common stock (OTCPK: MTRM) is now
quoted solely in the Pink Sheets.

Available Information 

The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the
Exchange Act. The Company therefore is required to file periodic
reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC.
Such reports may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference
Room of the SEC at 100 F Street NE,
Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC at
(800) SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet
site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information
statements and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically.

The Company maintains an Internet website at:
 www.metromedia-group.com  that investors and interested
parties can access,
 free-of -charge, to
obtain copies of all reports, proxy and information statements
and other information that the Company submits to the SEC. The
Company updates its Internet website as soon as practicable
after the Company electronically files such materials with, or
furnishes such materials to, the SEC. This information includes
without limitation, copies of the Company s annual report
on Form  10-K, 
quarterly reports on
Form  10-Q,  current
reports on
Form  8-K,  and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

Investors and interested parties can also submit electronic
requests for information directly to the Company at the
following  e-mail 
address:  investorrelations@mmgroup.com.  With the
exception of the Company s annual communication with its
shareholders, the Company s current policy is to only
provide information in an electronic format, in lieu of paper
format, to minimize the costs of managing investor relations.

Information on the Company s website is not incorporated
into this
Form  10-K  or the
Company s other securities filings and is not a part of
them.

Corporate History 

The Company was organized in 1929 under Pennsylvania law and
reincorporated in 1968 under Delaware law. Prior to 1995, the
Company operated under the names of  The Actava Group
Inc.  and  Fuqua

39

Table of Contents   

Industries, Inc. , and during that time period, the
Company owned, operated and sold dozens of companies in diverse
industries, including photo finishing, lawn and garden equipment
and sporting goods. On November 1, 1995, as a result of the
merger of Orion Pictures Corporation ( Orion ) and
Metromedia International Telecommunications, Inc.
( Metromedia Telecommunications ) with and into wholly
owned subsidiaries of the Company and the merger of MCEG
Sterling Incorporated ( MCEG ) with and into the
Company, the Company changed its name from  The Actava
Group Inc.  to  Metromedia International Group,
Inc.  Metromedia Telecommunications held interests in
communications and media ventures operating principally in
countries that were formerly part of the Soviet Union. Orion was
a motion picture production and distribution company. MCEG was
an independent film production and distribution company. With
the November 1995 mergers, the Company adopted a strategy of
development of media, communications and entertainment holdings,
with emphasis on developments in the emerging markets of the
former Soviet Union countries. On February 28, 1997, as a
result of the merger of Asian American Telecommunications into a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, the scope of
communications business development was extended to include the
People s Republic of China.

On July 10, 1997, the Company consummated the sale of
substantially all of its entertainment assets, consisting of
Orion Pictures Corporation, Samuel Goldwyn Company and Motion
Picture Corporation of America (and each of their respective
subsidiaries), including its feature film and television library
of over 2,200 titles, to P&F Acquisition Corp., the
parent company of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc., for gross
consideration of $573.0 million. Thereafter, on
April 16, 1998, the Company sold to Silver Cinemas, Inc.
its remaining entertainment assets consisting of all of the
assets of the Landmark Theatre Group ( Landmark ),
except cash, for an aggregate cash purchase price of
approximately $62.5 million and the assumption of certain
Landmark liabilities. These transactions provided significant
funds for the Company s expansion of its emerging market
communications and media businesses.

On September 30, 1999, the Company consummated the
acquisition of PLD Telekom, holder of interests in several
communications businesses providing high quality long distance
and international telecommunications services in the
Commonwealth of Independent States ( CIS ). In
December 1999, the Company was forced to liquidate its interests
in the telecommunications business ventures in China by order of
the Chinese government and the Company s subsequent
interests in China were limited to several
 start-up 
 E-commerce  business
ventures.

By 2002, the Company operated as a holding company for
telephony, radio and cable TV business operations located
principally in Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia.
Remaining operations in China were in early development. The
Company also owned Snapper Inc., a lawn and garden equipment
manufacturer ( Snapper ), which the Company at that
time considered a non-strategic business investment. Cash
proceeds of prior year operations and sale of business holdings
had been invested in acquisition or development of the
Company s primary communications and media businesses in
Europe, Russia and Central Asia. Cash reserves had been
substantially depleted by these investments and a high level of
corporate overhead spending. The Company faced a serious
liquidity situation, compounded by the onset of semi-annual
interest payment obligations for the Senior Notes commencing in
September 2002.

During 2002, and in response to growing liquidity pressures, the
Company implemented measures to address these pressures and
monetized its interest in several business ventures, including
Snapper. Sufficient cash was generated from these sales and from
dividends received from the Company s remaining business
ventures to meet 2002 requirements, including payment in October
2002 of $11.2 million of interest then due on the Senior
Notes. The Company, however, continued to face serious liquidity
pressures at the outset of 2003. At this time, the Company
adopted the aforementioned Restructuring strategy. Additional
cash reserves were generated from business sales undertaken in
2003 and 2004, and in 2003 the Company eliminated nearly
one-third of the outstanding principal on its Senior Notes. As a
result of these measures, the Company was able to meet its
historical and ordinary course business obligations and pay the
semi-annual $8.0 million interest due on the reduced
balance of its Senior Notes.

By year-end 2004, the Company had substantially completed its
Restructuring. All material Non-Core Business Ventures had been
sold, the rate of continuing corporate overhead expenditures had
been materially reduced and the Company enjoyed a satisfactory
liquidity position. The Company s core business ventures,
PeterStar and Magticom, held leading positions in their
respective markets, with strong financial results and

40

Table of Contents   

an established recent record of dividend distributions. The
Company retained ownership in two other Georgian businesses,
Telecom Georgia and Ayety, for co-development with Magticom.

As discussed previously, in August 2005, the Company consummated
the sale of its interests in PeterStar for a cash price of
$215.0 million. With the sale of PeterStar and all Non-Core
Business Ventures, the Company s remaining business
interests are concentrated in the country of Georgia. This
circumstance increases the Company s dependence on the
continuing vitality and stability of only one market and
economy. It also limits the Company s ability to offset
temporary downturns in one market with business activities in a
wider array of markets. These factors could materially increase
the Company s liquidity risk, since the Company is
dependent upon dividend distributions from its business ventures
to satisfy corporate legal obligations and overhead expenditure
requirements. Furthermore, these factors may also limit investor
interest in the Company s stock.

Description of Businesses 

Mobile telephony businesses provide communications services via
a radio-based network that permits customers to communicate
while moving from point to point. This is in contrast to fixed
telephony businesses that provide services via a network
terminating at certain stationary points. The inherent cost
structure, operational nature and marketing of mobile telephony
services differs materially from that of fixed telephony
services. Mobile and fixed telephony services have also recently
been valued on considerably differing bases in consequence of
differences in the rate and nature of consumer market
developments pertinent to each. Mobile telephony is currently
the fastest growing world-wide voice and data communications
market. The Company holds interest in both mobile and fixed
telephony businesses.

As previously discussed (see   Business  ), the
Company had two reportable business segments in 2004: Magticom
and PeterStar.

At December 31, 2004, the Company owned an indirect 34.5%
    minority interest in Magticom, a company organized under the
    laws of Georgia. Magticom is the leading mobile telephony
    operator in Tbilisi, Georgia and provides services throughout
    the country of Georgia. Magticom offers mobile telephony and
    roaming services, and related information services for Georgian
    businesses and consumers. It provides these services via a
    wireless mobile telephony network operating under the Groupe
    Speciale Mobile ( GSM ) standard in both the
    900 MHz and 1,800 MHz spectrum ranges. As previously
    discussed, in February 2005 and September 2005, the Company
    increased its ownership interest in Magticom to 50.1%  (see
       Recent Developments   Reorganization
    of Georgian Holdings )  and presently holds the largest
    economic interest in Magticom and is able to exert operational
    oversight over this business venture. However, the Company has
    determined that its ownership interest in Magticom (through its
    holding company structure), as a result of the ownership
    restructurings that occurred in February 2005 and September
    2005, should still be accounted for following the equity method
    of accounting. 

Magticom has in recent years funded its continuing capital
    expenditure and working capital requirements from its own
    operating cash flow. The Company anticipates this trend to
    continue for the foreseeable future. Magticom spent
    approximately $27.4 million in capital expenditures for the
    twelve months ended December 31, 2005, which was internally
    funded from its operations. The currently budgeted capital
    expenditures program for Magticom for the twelve months ended
    December 31, 2006 is in excess of $60.0 million, which
    the Company anticipates will be internally funded by Magticom
    and not require additional Company investment. 

Prior to August 1, 2005, the Company held a 71% controlling
    interest in PeterStar. PeterStar is a fixed telephony operator
    centered in St. Petersburg, Russia and providing services
    principally in the Northwest Region of Russia. PeterStar
    provides local telephony services, transit services for other
    telecommunications operators, and data communications services
    for businesses and individual customers. These services are
    delivered to stationary locations via copper, fiber optic or
    wireless loop connections. PeterStar operates as a Competitive
    Local Exchange Carrier or CLEC, providing telephony services in
    a market also served by an incumbent monopoly carrier. A CLEC
    obtains telephone numbers and access to national or
    international telephone networks via interconnection with the
    incumbent monopoly operator. 

The Company reports the results of operations of PeterStar on a
    consolidated basis in its financial statements. As discussed
    previously, in August 2005, the Company consummated the sale of
    its interests in 

41

Table of Contents   

PeterStar. PeterStar in most recent history had been able to
    self-fund its working capital requirements and capital spending
    for construction, development and maintenance of its network
    infrastructure and operational systems. Through July 31,
    2005, PeterStar had expended $9.3 million in capital
    expenditures for its network infrastructure and operational
    systems and this amount was internally funded from PeterStar
    operations. Terms of the February 2005 PeterStar sale agreement
    restricted the Company from taking actions as the majority
    shareholder to cause PeterStar to either distribute a dividend
    to its shareholders or repay any intercompany loans to the
    Company prior to consummation of the sale. 

In addition, the Company also has an economic interest in three
other business ventures   Telecom Georgia, Telenet and
Ayety.

Telecom Georgia, a long-distance transit operator in Tbilisi,
    Georgia, in which the Company presently has a 25.6% effective
    ownership interest. Prior to mid-February 2005, the Company had
    a 30% ownership interest in Telecom Georgia. As a result of the
    restructuring of the Company s ownership interest in
    Telecom Georgia in February 2005, the Company acquired an
    additional 51% interest and gained the ability to exert
    operational oversight over Telecom Georgia. Furthermore,
    effective May 23, 2005, Telecom Georgia will be accounted
    for following the  consolidation method of accounting 
    within the Company s consolidated financial statements
    since the Company s ownership in Telecom Georgia had met
    the criteria of the Company s consolidation accounting
    policy. In July 2006, the Company consummated a series of
    transactions associated with its ownership interest in Telecom
    Georgia. As a result of these transactions, the Company s
    ownership interest in Telecom Georgia decreased to 20.7% and is
    now held through various U.S. based holding companies in which
    the Company has the controlling interest, thereby enabling the
    Company to continue to exercise operational oversight and also
    consolidation accounting with respect to Telecom Georgia. In
    October 2006, the Company, through
    International T LLC, an intermediary holding company
    in which the Company has a 25.6% economic ownership interest,
    acquired the 19% ownership interest held by Bulcom in Telecom
    Georgia, thereby increasing the Company s economic interest
    in Telecom Georgia to 25.6%. 

Telecom Georgia has in recent years funded its moderate capital
expenditure and working capital requirements from its own
operating cash flow. The Company anticipates this trend to
continue for the foreseeable future. Telecom Georgia spent
$0.1 million in capital expenditures for the twelve months
ended December 31, 2005, which was internally funded from
its operations. The currently budgeted capital expenditures
program for Telecom Georgia for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2006 is expected to be approximately
$0.5 million;

Telenet, a high-speed data communication and internet access
    service provider on both a wired and wireless basis, in which
    the Company though a series of transactions in July 2006 has the
    largest economic interest of any of the shareholders in Telenet
    of 25.6%. Immediately prior to the Company s acquisition of
    Telenet, Telenet acquired from IberiaTel, Georgia s only
    license to provide CDMA 450 MHz wireless voice and data
    services and a CDMA 450 network deployed in Georgia s
    capital city, Tbilisi. The Company s interest in Telenet is
    held through various U.S. based holding companies in which the
    Company has the controlling interest, thereby enabling the
    Company to exercise operational oversight and also consolidation
    accounting with respect to Telenet; and 

Ayety, a cable television provider in Tbilisi, Georgia, in which
    the Company has a 85% ownership interest. Currently, the Company
    is involved in a number of commercial and legal disputes with
    the 15% minority shareholder of Ayety, the result of the
    dispute, despite the Company s majority economic interest,
    is that: 

The Company no longer controls the day-to-day business affairs
    of Ayety; 

The Company no longer has favorable relations with management of
    Ayety, since the Company attempted to terminate the General
    Director of Ayety in late June 2004; and 

The Company has been unable to prepare U.S. GAAP financial
    statements of Ayety to include within its consolidated financial
    statements since the Company no longer has access to the
    statutory accounting records of Ayety. Accordingly, as allowed
    under FIN 46R the Company no 

42

Table of Contents   

longer consolidates its variable interest in Ayety for all
    periods subsequent to June 30, 2004 to include within its
    consolidated financial statements  (see Item 3.
     Legal Proceedings   Legal Matters with
    Mtatsminda   International Telcell SPS vs
    Mtatsminda ) . 

Magticom (Tbilisi, Georgia and the Country of
    Georgia)   

Magticom is the leading mobile telephony operator in Tbilisi,
Georgia and provides services throughout the country of Georgia.
Magticom offers mobile telephony and roaming services, and
related information services for Georgian businesses and
consumers. It provides these services via a wireless mobile
telephony network operating under the GSM standard in both the
900 MHz and 1,800 MHz spectrum ranges.

Ownership Structure, Control of Business  
Consolidation Accounting and Financial Accounting, Reporting and
Disclosure Process Issues 

Ownership Structure   As of December 31,
2004: 

Through wholly-owned subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2004
the Company owned a 70.41% interest in Telcell, a Delaware LLC.
Western Wireless, a U.S. public company, was the
Company s sole other partner in Telcell, with a 29.59%
ownership interest. Telcell, in turn, owned a direct 49%
interest in Magticom. Through this structure, the Company owned
a 34.5% economic interest in Magticom. As the managing member of
Telcell since its formation, the Company has actively managed
Telcell s investment in Magticom with only very limited
direct participation by Western Wireless. Specifically, since
early 2002, all matters arising in the ordinary course of
Magticom s business requiring Telcell s shareholder
review or approval were addressed and handled solely by the
Company. Since that time, Western Wireless requested only the
Company s reports and assessments of Magticom plans,
operations and performance; and it concurred without alteration
and with very limited comment in all actions taken by the
Company with respect to Magticom s ordinary course
activities. No representatives of Western Wireless traveled to
Georgia or engaged with Magticom operating personnel since early
2002 (see     Restatement of Prior Financial
Information   2005 Restatement Work Effort  ).
Dr. George Jokhtaberidze, a Georgian private citizen and
co-founder of Magticom, directly owned the remaining 51% direct
interest in Magticom.

43

Table of Contents   

Ownership Structure   As of February 28, 2005.
(After Reorganization of Magticom Ownership Interests): 

As previously discussed, through a series of transactions
executed in February 2005, the Company and
Dr. Jokhtaberidze reorganized their ownership interests in
Magticom and the Company acquired an additional 8.3% ownership
interest at a cost of $23.1 million  (see
   Recent Developments   Reorganization
of Georgian Holdings ) . As a result of the ownership
structure changes in February 2005, the Company held a 50.1%
interest in International TC LLC, a newly formed Delaware
LLC, the remaining 49.9% of which was owned, prior to
June 1, 2006, by Dr. Jokhtaberidze. International TC
LLC, in turn, owned the Company s former 70.41% interest in
Telcell and Dr. Jokhtaberidze s former 51% interest in
Magticom. This arrangement gave International TC LLC an 85.5%
economic interest in Magticom and the Company a 42.8% economic
interest in Magticom. Dr. Jokhtaberidze retained a 42.7%
economic interest in Magticom and Western Wireless retained its
14.5% economic interest.

Ownership Structure   As of September 30,
2005. (After the Purchase of Western Wireless  Economic
Interest in Magticom): 

44

Table of Contents   

As previously discussed, on September 15, 2005, the Company
and Dr. Jokhtaberidze acquired the 14.5% effective interest
in Magticom formerly owned by Western Wireless for a cash price
of $43.0 million. As a result, the Company owns 50.1% of
Magticom through various holding companies and
Dr. Jokhtaberidze owns 49.9%. MIG and
Dr. Jokhtaberidze funded the $43.0 million purchase
pro rata their respective ownership interests in International
TC LLC.

Ownership Structure   As of June 30, 2006.
(After Dr. Jokhtaberidze s divestiture of 3% ownership
interest in International TC LLC on June 1, 2006): 

*    No officers or board of director members of the
Company are investors or are affiliated with this legal
entity. 

On June 1, 2006, Dr. Jokhtaberidze divested 3% of his
ownership interest in International TC LLC to Gemstone
Management, Ltd., a British Virgin Islands company. This
ownership restructuring had no significant effect on the
minority partner participatory rights since the International TC
LLC agreement that was executed in February 2005 had
contemplated that this event might occur at some point in the
future.

Control of
Business   Consolidation Accounting 

Control of Business   Consolidation Accounting:
 As a result of the February 2005 restructuring of the
Company s ownership interest in Magticom, the Company is
able to exert operational oversight over Magticom. However, the
Company has determined that its ownership interest in Magticom
(through its holding company structure), as a result of the
ownership restructurings that occurred in February 2005 and
September 2005, should still be accounted for following the
equity method of accounting.

Financial Accounting,
Reporting and Disclosure Process Issues 

Financial Accounting, Reporting and Disclosure Process
Issues:  Although Magticom s financial accounting
workflow processes and corresponding accounting information
systems are sufficient for local statutory and tax reporting
purposes, they are inadequate for the timely preparation of U.S.
GAAP financial accounting and reporting. Magticom s
financial accounting workflow has been designed to meet its
respective statutory tax reporting requirements. As a result,
accounting transactions are often not recorded timely
( months  vs.  days ) within the statutory
accounts due to the delay in receipt of sufficient
documentation, both third party and internally generated, to
record those respective transactions. Furthermore, the statutory
accounting workflow process is fundamentally  cash 
vs.  accrual  based.

45

Table of Contents   

Compounding this issue is the fact that the local accounting
information systems were designed for the local statutory tax
reporting purposes. Accordingly, preparation of the financial
management accounting and reporting for Magticom requires
significant effort outside of the installed accounting software
packages, due to limitations of the respective local accounting
software packages. Thus, the finance personnel rely heavily upon
spreadsheet and database software packages that are not
integrated with the local accounting software system. This
workflow environment is manually intensive, subject to the risk
of human error and creates a situation whereby the ability to
properly analyze detailed account activity during the review
process is arduous, thus creating significant delays in the
review process.

Magticom is currently implementing an enterprise reporting
package ( ERP ), that once implemented should assist
in the timely preparation of financial management and reporting;
however, this is a process that will require significant effort
with a  best case  implementation date of
January 1, 2007.

These circumstances will demand considerable management and
operational restructuring within Magticom, including
implementation of procedures and placement of personnel
satisfactory to meet U.S. GAAP reporting and internal controls
requirements. The Company s planned business development
initiatives for Magticom are currently being implemented by the
management team of Magticom and will run parallel with the
Company s plans to implement efficient and effective U.S.
GAAP reporting and financial controls (See     
Company s Ability to Timely File Future Reports with the
SEC and Comply with Section 404  Management Assessment
of Internal Controls  of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
( SOX 404 )   ).

Discussion of the
Magticom Business 

Business Overview:  Magticom is a provider of mobile
telephony services in Georgia, and is also the largest telephony
operator (mobile or fixed) in Georgia, as measured by revenues
and traffic volumes. Magticom delivers services to businesses
and consumers nationwide utilizing a GSM mobile telephony
infrastructure. Magticom has built a nationwide network with
coverage that supports roaming throughout Georgia. It also has
international roaming agreements with more than 150 GSM
operators around the world enabling its customers to use their
Magticom-billed mobile service in foreign countries.
Magticom s network is interconnected with those of other
mobile and fixed telephony operators in Georgia, enabling
Magticom customers to call and receive calls from any Georgian
telephone subscriber.

In addition to voice mobile communication, Magticom offers a
short message service (SMS) enabling customers to exchange
text messages via their mobile handsets. In 2004, Magticom
implemented the capability to exchange
 IP-based  traffic over
its network. Using services built on this capability, customers
can send and receive
 e-mail,  pictures and
other digitally encoded items via their mobile handsets as well
as browse Internet websites. These services exploit the
capabilities of the latest generation of mobile handsets and the
increasing level of consumer Internet enthusiasm. Using this
same  IP-based 
capability, in 2004 Magticom was among the first operators
world-wide to introduce
 push-to -talk service,
which supports continuous walky-talky like communication within
pre-selected subscriber groups.

Magticom s services are sold primarily on a pre-paid basis.
Mobile subscribers purchase Magticom pre-paid scratch cards in
varying denominations which, after the entry of the scratch
card s code via their mobile telephone, establishes (or
increases) the subscriber s account balance usable for
future mobile services. Magticom s self-developed billing
and control systems continually monitor actual subscriber
service usage and stop future usage when a subscriber s
prepaid account balance is exhausted. Scratch cards are sold in
bulk at a small discount to dealers for resale to consumers,
resulting in Magticom receiving cash in advance of actual
service consumption. This pre-paid arrangement accounts for more
than 90% of Magticom s total service revenues and nearly
98% of all Magticom subscribers. Magticom also sells services on
a post-paid basis to certain of its business customers who then
receive itemized monthly billing statements.

Magticom has not, in general, sold mobile handsets. Instead,
subscribers purchase a Magticom SIM card, which activates their
pre-purchased mobile handset and provides it with a Magticom
telephone number. The mobile handset market in Georgia has
historically suffered from extensive illegal importation of
equipment. While this situation has made it disadvantageous for
Magticom to sell handsets, it has resulted in low handset prices
and wide availability of handsets among the general population.
As Georgia tightens regulation and

46

Table of Contents   

policing of handset importation, it may prove worthwhile for
Magticom to enter the handset sales market in the future.

The following table summarizes Magticom s key operating and
financial results for the last three years. The results for 2002
represent the twelve months ended September 30, 2002, since
Magticom results were reported on a three-month lag through the
end of 2002.

(1)  
     
    In an effort to conform its reporting standards to those of
    other wireless mobile phone service providers, Magticom changed
    its policy in 2004 for determining which subscribers it
    considered active and the subscriber information for prior
    periods conforms to current period presentation. Magticom
    currently considers a pre-paid subscriber active if that
    subscriber undertook any revenue generating activity within the
    prior 30 days. Prior to 2004, Magticom had considered a
    pre-paid subscriber active only if that subscriber had purchased
    a minimum level Lari scratch-card within thirty days of that
    subscriber s most previous scratch card purchase. That is,
    to be considered  active , a pre-paid subscriber
    previously had to  re-up 
    for a minimum-level Lari scratch-card every 30 days,
    regardless of that subscriber s actual call usage. That
    minimum  30-day  purchase
    threshold amount was 15 Lari effective April 1, 2003 and
    prior to that period the minimum amount was 30 Lari. 

Magticom s U.S. Dollar financial results have
historically been affected by the strength or weakness of the
Georgian Lari, Magticom s functional currency since
April 1, 2003, against the U.S. Dollar  (see
Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Results of Operations   Unconsolidated Results of
Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to
Unconsolidated Results of Operations for the Year Ended
December 31, 2003   Wireless Telephony  for
additional discussion of Magticom s financial
performance). 

In particular, 2004 average revenue per subscriber
( ARPU ) reported in U.S. Dollars was favorably
affected by this exchange rate effect. Lari-denominated ARPU
(which reflects subscriber payments in the currency actually
used for those payments) decreased by 10.6% for full-year of
2004. This is consistent with the 2004 decline in average
minutes of use per subscriber, and also reflects a
well-established trend among mobile telephony businesses
world-wide, in which average usage and ARPU falls as overall
mobile service

47

Table of Contents   

penetration increases. That is, beyond a certain initial level
of penetration, newly subscribed customers generate lower usage
(and thus lower average revenue) than existing customers.
Magticom s Lari-denominated ARPU reached a peak in the
third quarter of 2003 and Magticom anticipates that its
Lari-denominated ARPU will continue to decline in future periods
due to both the aforementioned penetration effect and
competitive pressures on pricing of services. This may not
result in an overall reduction in revenue growth, as both
expanded subscription and introduction of new services are
planned.

Customers and Services:  Magticom offers mobile telephony
and related services to businesses and consumers in Georgia.
Customers generally purchase Magticom s services on a
pre-paid basis, wherein charges incurred by the customer are
deducted from a pre-paid balance established through purchase of
a Magticom scratch card. Pre-qualified customers, typically
established businesses, can purchase Magticom services on a
post-paid basis, wherein the customer is billed monthly. There
are presently no differences among services provided to any
customer, although certain-value-added services are sold on a
specific subscription basis. All customers have the capacity to
make and receive voice telephone calls and to send and receive
SMS text messages while on the move virtually everywhere in
Georgia. Magticom maintains commercial relations with
international long distance operators and the mobile operators
of numerous foreign countries. Its customers are thereby able to
make and receive international telephone calls and to use their
Magticom mobile service when traveling abroad. Magticom treats
the entire country of Georgia as a single calling area, so there
is effectively no need for a distinct domestic long distance
service.

Subscriber Services:  Basic subscriber service consists of
a mobile telephone number and ability to make and receive
telephone calls anywhere in Georgia from the corresponding
mobile handset. All Magticom telephone numbers presently begin
with the  99  prefix unique to Magticom. Outgoing
calls are billed on a minute of use basis. There is no
called-party-pays service at present. In 2005, Magticom began
systematic introduction of service plans providing varying rates
for certain common services based on customer-specific
parameters such as volume of use, bundled purchases, calling to
selected numbers or calling within the Magticom network.
Previously, all Magticom services were billed under a single
fixed rate schedule applicable to all subscribers and traffic.
These and other soon to be introduced rate structures are
designed to match Magticom pricing to competitive pressures and
improve the market attractiveness of Magticom s services.

All subscribers can send and receive short text messages
(SMS) from their Magticom-equipped mobile handset. These
are billed at a per-message-sent rate. In 2004, Magticom
introduced GPRS and MMS network capabilities that support
 IP-based  message
exchange services between mobile handsets. Subscribing customers
can exchange  e-mail, 
send and receive pictures and browse the Internet from suitably
equipped mobile handsets or portable data devices. These
services are billed at a usage rate reflecting the volume of
data sent or received. Magticom also offers certain
content-based services to its subscribers on an SMS or IP basis,
enabling them to view sport scores, horoscopes and similar
content. Such services are billed at call rates plus a premium
for the content delivered. Magticom is actively recruiting
additional third-party content providers to actively exploit the
now quite extensive information delivery capabilities of its
network.

Subscribers  international long distance calls are routed
for completion to other long distance operators  (see, for
example    Business Description   Fixed
Telephony   Telecom Georgia ) . The Magticom
caller is billed the international long distance operator s
wholesale rate plus a local call origination charge. Subscribers
are not charged an incremental long distance rate for calling
distant locations within Georgia.

Inbound Interconnection Services:  Magticom collects a
per-minute fee from other Georgian operators for terminating
calls made to Magticom s subscribers. This applies whether
the call is originated on another fixed or mobile
operator s network within Georgia or forwarded by a
Georgian long distance operator from an international carrier.
Pursuant to a 2001 Georgian regulatory provision, Magticom was
required to ultimately implement fee-based interconnection
agreements with all other Georgian operators, although no time
table was set in the regulatory provision for such
implementation. Furthermore, under the aforementioned Georgian
regulation, Magticom must charge the same per-minute rate to any
operator that terminates its traffic on Magticom s network.
Magticom may periodically set its own call terminating rate but
must demonstrate to the Georgian regulator that such rates are
cost-based. By regulation, Magticom is obligated to provide call
terminating interconnection to any Georgian operator that seeks
it. Magticom also collects a fee for forwarding

48

Table of Contents   

calls originated on its network by subscribers dialing the 8xx
access code of one of the Georgian long distance operators. This
per-minute fee is regulated by the Georgian regulatory authority
and applies equally to all mobile operators in Georgia.

International Roaming Services:  Magticom has arranged
bilateral roaming agreements with more than 150 mobile
operators world-wide. Magticom subscribers traveling in
countries served by these operators may use their
Magticom-equipped mobile telephone to make and receive calls
while in the foreign country. Originating calls are billed by
Magticom, either against the subscriber s pre-paid account
balance or on a post-paid basis, at a rate set by the foreign
operator. Subscribers of the foreign operator get similar call
privileges from Magticom while in Georgia. Magticom bills its
subscribers an international roaming premium on a per-minute
basis for calls made while abroad.

Costs of Service Provision:  Magticom s network is
interconnected with those of other Georgian mobile, fixed and
long distance telephony operators. Via this arrangement,
Magticom s customers can place calls to other Georgian
telephony subscribers or employ the services of Georgia s
long distance service providers. Magticom pays a per-minute fee
to other operators for Magticom subscriber calls terminated on
the other operator s network. This per-minute fee is
regulated by the Georgian regulatory authority to the extent
that the charging operator must demonstrate that its call
terminating rates are cost-based. Call terminating rates
presently vary materially for calls placed to mobile versus
fixed line operators. Georgia s mobile operators, including
Magticom, presently all charge the same call terminating rate,
which is more than three times the rate charged to terminate
calls on a Georgian fixed line network. This reflects the
considerable differences in cost basis for providing mobile and
fixed line telephony services in Georgia.

Magticom also pays Georgian long distance operators a fee to
complete international calls originated by Magticom s
customers. This is the case if the Magticom subscriber does not
dial a specific long distance operator s 8xx access code
when making the international call. Magticom negotiates the
per-minute long distance rates paid to these Georgian long
distance operators.

Magticom and the other operators with which its network is
interconnected calculate terminating charges payable on a
monthly basis. Magticom (and all other operators) nets the
aggregate amount it must pay for calls terminated on another
operator s network against the aggregate amount due from
that other operator for calls terminated on Magticom s
network. Magticom and the other operators agree on these
aggregate charges, and a net payment is made or collected by
Magticom.

Prior to October 2003, Magticom and Geocell, the other major
Georgian mobile operator, had agreed to terminate each
other s calls without specific charging. Consequently, no
Magticom cost of service was recorded for Magticom subscriber
calls terminated on Geocell s network (nor was inbound
interconnection revenue recognized for Magticom s
termination of Geocell s traffic). Pursuant to a 2001
Georgian regulatory provision, Magticom was required to
ultimately implement fee-based interconnection agreements with
all other Georgian operators, although no time period was set in
the regulatory provision for such implementation. From October
2003 through October 2004, Magticom exchanged traffic with
Geocell pursuant to an agreement in which either operator would
pay the other a call terminating fee, but only if the aggregate
terminating charges in a month due one of the operators exceeded
the aggregate charges due the other operator by more than 20%.
This 20% limit was not exceeded in the one-year period of this
agreement, so Magticom did not record Geocell call terminating
charges nor recognize inbound interconnection revenue from
Geocell during this period. In October 2004, Magticom and
Geocell entered into a fully fee-based interconnection
agreement, pursuant to which each pays the other a call
terminating charge for all minutes of traffic exchanged between
them. Geocell is Magticom s largest traffic exchange trade
partner. Magticom has fully fee-based interconnection agreements
in place with all other Georgian operators with which it
exchanges traffic.

Network and Technology:  Magticom s network operates
using the GSM standard, which is the leading standard for mobile
telephony service throughout the world. Magticom s radio
network covers essentially all populated areas of Georgia.
Magticom continually adds radio base stations to ensure
nation-wide coverage and adequate call handling capacity in all
areas of the country. Base stations are connected to one of two
Magticom switching centers via microwave links, fiber optic
cable or conventional copper cable. The switching

49

Table of Contents   

centers are located in Magticom-owned quarters in Tbilisi, the
Georgian capital city, and Kutaisi, a significant secondary city
in western Georgia. These switching centers are inter-linked via
multiple independent transport channels providing alternative
traffic paths between the centers for fault tolerant continuous
operation. Magticom operates a network control center in its
Tbilisi switching center, from which engineers can monitor the
entire network on a continuous basis.

In 2004, Magticom s network was enhanced to handle
 IP-based  traffic in
addition to conventional mobile voice telephony. GPRS and MMS
technology supports exchange of information over the network in
the Internet-like IP data format, including Voice-over-IP. The
network is also equipped to handle
 push-to -talk services
that simulate a walky-talky form of communication. Magticom
anticipates that
 IP-based  data
communication over its network will expand very rapidly. As of
late April 2006, more than 150 thousand Magticom customers
have already subscribed to such services during the short time
since their introduction.

Magticom s network and technology infrastructure capital
spending program during the past three years has been relatively
modest as compared with 2005. In 2005, Magticom spent
$27.4 million in capital expenditures, which was
principally spent on its network and technology infrastructure.
Magticom currently plans to incur in excess of
$60.0 million in capital expenditures during 2006,
principally for its network and technology infrastructure. In
2006, Magticom plans to:

Complete a wide-scale rehabilitation of its existing radio base
    stations, including power, HVAC and containment systems. This
    work will also include a substantial expansion and optimization
    of radio transmission systems to assure coverage and effective
    voice quality for its much-expanded subscriber base; 

Implement redundant, high capacity fiber-based systems in
    Tbilisi for connection of radio and central switching systems;
    and implement fiber-based links between Tbilisi and Kutaisi to
    interconnect Magticom s primary switching nodes; 

Upgrade its core switching systems, implement a new voice
    circuit switch and new packet switches, and deploy an initial
    limited-coverage radio access network to enable offering of
     3G  mobile telephony services in Georgia. This work
    exploits the 2.1 GHz spectrum license acquired in 2005 and
    should position Magticom as offering the most advanced mobile
    telephony services available in the world; and 

Implement a real-time billing and service provisioning system
    that will interface to the network using standardized,
    supplier-validated control protocols. This will require the
    implementation of an  Intelligent Network
    ( IN )  host platform interconnected with the
    core switching systems. This work will provide Magticom a
    platform on which new software-enabled services can be quickly
    and safely deployed. The work will involve extensive staff
    development and training, replacement of existing and aged
    computer platforms, substantial modification and testing of
    mission-critical information systems, and implementation of the
    new IN core network component. 

Magticom s billing system has been self-developed. It
supports Magticom s extensive pre-paid calling activity via
close integration with the network s switching systems,
assuring that subscriber pre-paid balances are promptly made
available for use and subscriber services blocked when these
balances are exhausted. Magticom also develops its own
distinctive call charging arrangements through this billing
system. Magticom employs a growing staff of information
technology professionals to manage continuing development of
this and its other software systems.

Competition:  Magticom s primary and presently only
significant competitor is Geocell, a
Georgian-Turkish-Scandinavian business venture that also
operates a substantial GSM mobile telephony network in Georgia.
Magticom presently holds, by its own estimates (no industry data
is presently published), approximately 60% share of the Georgian
mobile market to Geocell s approximately 40%. This estimate
is substantiated by analysis of the volume of traffic exchanged
between the two operators. A third much smaller operator,
Telenet, is a wireless fixed telephone service provider
operating under a CDMA-450 MHz spectrum license in the city of
Tbilisi, Georgia and has an immaterial market share. As
previously discussed, in May 2006 and June 2006, Telenet became
an affiliate of Metromedia International Group, Inc. and
Magticom, by

50

Table of Contents   

means of common shareholder ownership (see
    Recent Developments   Acquisition
of Telenet and IberiaTel  ). These estimates suggest
that penetration of the Georgian mobile market at year-end 2004
was approximately 20% of total population.

Prior to 2004, competition in the Georgian mobile market was
heavily based on service quality and coverage; with Magticom
enjoying a significant advantage in both areas. Its network
provided the widest coverage (all of Georgia) and was engineered
to generally higher capacity thereby ensuring good call quality.
Price competition during this period was minimal and Magticom
seldom faced the need to discount its services. As Geocell
reached approximate parity with Magticom s coverage and,
importantly, as mobile penetration in Georgia reached current
levels; competition focused increasingly on price, customer
service and distribution capacity. New mobile customers are
increasingly price sensitive due to the comparatively limited
affordability of mobile services. Price competition has arisen
in the form of specialized consumer calling plans (essentially
discounts). There has also been aggressive discounting of
services offered to major business clients to ensure their
continued subscription and to promote subscription by their
employees. Average revenue per subscriber for both major mobile
operators is falling in consequence.

Magticom sells its pre-paid scratch cards and SIM cards through
its own sales offices and a growing network of independent
dealers. Major business and public sector clients are served by
a separate sales team able to craft customized subscription and
service packages. Magticom operates a 24 hour, 7 day
customer service center reachable without charge by telephone.
In addition to addressing customer service inquiries and
complaints, this center also provides general information
services on weather, travel and similar topics. Customers
subscribing to Magticom s newest line of
 IP-based  services can
obtain assistance in service
 set-up  at Magticom
sales offices.

Both Magticom and Geocell advertise extensively in print,
billboard and TV outlets. Magticom also publishes a high quality
magazine, available to its major business clients and at sales
offices, covering topics of general Georgian interest and
providing information on Magticom services. Magticom s
brand name is universally known throughout Georgia; a factor
reinforced by the fact that Magticom is the largest private
company in the country outside of the oil and gas transport
sector.

On February 7, 2006 the Georgian government auctioned
license rights to a portion of 800 MHz radio frequency
spectrum usable for mobile telephony services using the CDMA
technology standard. Bloomfin Limited won the auction with a bid
of approximately 72 million GEL (approximately
$40 million). The license, if developed, allows Bloomfin to
offer a competitive CDMA mobile service in Georgia. The CDMA
technology standard is not inter-operable with the GSM
technology used for all mobile telephony services currently
offered in Georgia and throughout Russia, Central Asia and
Europe. Future competition in Georgia around 800 MHz CDMA
will, therefore, likely be limited to mobile data and other
non-voice services and fixed telephony services offered on a
wireless basis, rather than wide-scale mobile voice telephony.

On April 25, 2006, license rights for additional 3G radio
frequency spectrum, representing less than 25% of the available
3G radio frequency spectrum, were offered at auction; in which
the winning bid was approximately 20 million GEL
(approximately $11 million). Magticom did not directly
participate in the tender; however, Magticom has entered into
agreements with the winner of the April 2006 auction, pursuant
to which Magticom will acquire from that party license rights to
all of their license rights. Magticom anticipates paying the
full winning bid price, plus a nominal mark-up, for these
license rights. Following the purchase, Magticom s 3G
spectrum holdings is less than 50% of total 3G spectrum, as
required by Georgian law.

On May 23, 2006, the Georgian government conducted an
auction for license rights to a third 25% segment of the 3G
spectrum. Magticom could neither directly participate in this
auction nor acquire any portion of the license obtained by the
auction s winner, due to the aforementioned legal
limitations on the portion of 3G spectrum which Magticom can
hold. The winner of the May 2006 auction, with a bid of
approximately 18.7 million GEL (approximately
$10.4 million), was not operating any telephony service in
Georgia. Geocell entered into an arrangement with the winner of
the May 2006 auction, pursuant to which Geocell acquired
from that party, license rights to the third 25% portion of
Georgia s 3G spectrum and commenced services in
Tbilisi in December 2006.

51

Table of Contents   

These recent developments suggest that the competitive landscape
might be subject to further change in the future (see
 Item 1A.  Risk Factors    The Company may
be materially and adversely affected by competition from other
communications companies or the emergence of competing
technologies in its current markets.  and  The Company
now operates solely in the country of Georgia, which presents a
general risk profile that may be materially different from that
ordinarily expected by U.S. investors   Limitations in
the Georgian Licensing Regime ). 

Regulatory:  The present Georgian telecommunications
regulatory and legislative regime is at an early state of
development and is relatively unsophisticated and
non-transparent as compared to those of other developed markets,
as a result Magticom s business operations could be
adversely affected should this condition continue (see
 Item 1A.  Risk Factors   The Company now
operates solely in the country of Georgia, which presents a
general risk profile that may be materially different from that
ordinarily expected by U.S. investors   Immature State
of Georgian Regulatory Regime and Evolving Georgian
Telecommunications Legislative Process ). 

Furthermore, the Georgian parliament continues developing
legislation and frameworks for regulation of the
telecommunications sector. A new basic telecommunications law
was passed before year-end 2005, with further refinements and
extensions expected during 2006 and beyond. The legislative and
regulatory regime will likely continue to evolve in significant
ways and Magticom has little practical means to predict the
specific character of the eventual legislative landscape or its
specific effect on its operations.

Laws and regulations passed during 2005 place limits on
interconnection tariffs, set terms for license issuance or
renewal, and enforce provisions for fair market access. These
new conditions are somewhat less economically favorable to
Magticom than those historically in effect. As required under
the preexisting Georgian telecommunications law, Magticom
continues to be negatively impacted by the regulators 
insistence on encouraging  new market entrant 
competition by means of policy that has adverse consequences.
For example, Magticom has been obligated to continue to provide
telecommunication services to local new market entrants
irrespective of the new market entrants ability to pay for the
services that Magticom provides (see  Item 1A.  Risk
Factors   The Company now operates solely in the
country of Georgia, which presents a general risk profile that
may be materially different from that ordinarily expected by
U.S. investors   Evolving Georgian Telecommunications
Legislative Process ). 

Licenses:  Prior to January 2005, Magticom held licenses
to provide mobile telecommunications services using both the
900 MHz and 1,800 MHz radio frequency spectrum. With
respect to the 900 MHz radio frequency spectrum, Magticom has
two separate licenses that cover distinct channels of this radio
frequency spectrum which use 52% of the 900 MHz radio frequency
spectrum available in Georgia for offering GSM data and voice
services. Magticom had acquired the license rights in July 1996,
for a nominal amount, and both licenses expire on July 10,
2006. On July 7, 2006, the Georgian regulator renewed these
licenses for a ten year period, effective immediately. Magticom
paid a license renewal fee of GEL 24.9 million
(approximately $13.7 million). Magticom currently has one
license for certain channels of the 1,800 MHz radio frequency
spectrum which use 20% of the 1,800 MHz radio frequency spectrum
available in Georgia for offering GSM data and voice services.
Magticom had acquired the license rights in May 1999, for a
nominal amount, and the license expires in May 2009. These
spectrum licenses are granted by the Georgian regulatory
authority for a ten-year period and are readily renewable.
Historically, Magticom had paid license fees in installments
over the license s term; however, Georgian regulatory
authorities recently introduced a license fee structure
requiring full fee payment in the first year after license
issuance. The granting authorities have the power to terminate
Magticom s licenses at any time for violation of license
provisions and subject to certain restrictions. Magticom cannot
operate its business without these licenses. (see
 Item 1A.  Risk Factors   The Company now
operates solely in the country of Georgia, which presents a
general risk profile that may be materially different from that
ordinarily expected by U.S. investors   Limitations in
the Georgian Licensing Regime ). 

On January 25, 2005, the Georgian regulatory authority
announced a tender of new mobile telephony spectrum license for
18% of the 800 MHz radio frequency spectrum available in Georgia
for offering CDMA, data, voice and video services. On
March 11, 2005, the Georgian regulatory authority announced
a tender of new mobile telephony spectrum license for 25% of the
3G frequency spectrum available in Georgia for offering

52

Table of Contents   

3G GSM mobile voice, data and video services. Each license will
grant its holder a ten-year commercial right to use the
respective spectrum; however, the holder must offer commercial
service using the spectrum covered by the license within one
year. Applications for participation in the 800 MHz tender
were closed on April 14, 2005 and for participation in the
3G tender on May 25, 2005. Tender applicants were required
to pay 10% of the minimum license fees at time of filing their
application; such amount either being refunded if applicant is
unsuccessful in obtaining the license being tendered or being
applied to the total final license fee due from a successful
applicant. The minimum license fees were approximately
GEL 5.8 million (approximately $3.2 million) for
the 800 MHz license and approximately GEL 8.5 million
(approximately $4.6 million) for the 3G license; with final
fees to be set by auction among timely applicants for the
licenses. Magticom applied timely for participation in both
tenders and made the requisite application payments.

In November 2005, Magticom acquired at auction a license to use
20% of the 1,800 MHz (or equivalent to 15% of the combined 900
MHz and 1800 MHz) radio frequency spectrum available in Georgia
for offering GSM data and voice services. Magticom has paid
approximately 1.0 million GEL (approximately
$0.6 million) for the license, which is usable for a period
of ten years. This license was originally auctioned in
February 2004 and since Magticom was the only bidder for
the license, the Georgian regulator should have awarded the
license to Magticom. However, the February 2004 auction was
contested by a Georgian group claiming that it had been
prevented from participating due to an error being made by the
regulator. In view of the claim, the regulator suspended the
auction and Magticom protested the regulator s actions. The
case went to a regulatory administrative hearing, then to the
local courts and ultimately was decided by the Georgian Supreme
Court. The effect of the Georgian Supreme Court decision was to
reinstate the original auction; that is, the Georgian
group s claim to participate was rejected and the regulator
was ordered to hold the auction as originally planned. Since
Magticom was the only legitimately entered contestant in the
auction, the license was sold for the preset minimum opening bid
amount. Further, the minimum bid level for this radio frequency
spectrum was set back in late 2003, at a time before the
regulator considered that there would be any competition for
licenses in Georgia beyond Magticom and Geocell.

On May 25, 2005, an auction among three applicants for the
800 MHz license was held at which Magticom entered the
winning bid of approximately GEL 26.1 million
(approximately $14.3 million) after seventy successive
rounds of bidding. In June 2005, Magticom obligated itself to
purchase the 800 MHz license for the final auction price,
at which time 30% of that price was due and payable. As a
result, Magticom will have the license rights, after all
consideration has been paid to the government, to use this
800 MHz spectrum in Georgia for a period of ten years. The
remaining portion of the price was payable in monthly
installments. Magticom completed technical trials of the CDMA
spectrum within one year as required by the license. An auction
for the 3G license was held on August 5, 2005 and Magticom
entered the winning bid and obligated itself to purchase the
license rights for GEL 20.4 million (approximately
$11.3 million). As a result, Magticom will have the license
rights, after all consideration has been paid to the government,
to use this 3G spectrum in Georgia for a period of ten years. Of
the purchase price, 30% of that price was paid in September 2005
and the remaining portion of the price was payable in monthly
installments. Magticom completed technical trials of the 3G GSM
spectrum within one year as required by the license.
Furthermore, on April 25, 2006, license rights for
additional 3G radio frequency spectrum, representing less than
25% of the available 3G radio frequency spectrum, were offered
at auction; in which the winning bid was approximately
20 million GEL (approximately $11 million). Magticom
did not directly participate in the tender; however, Magticom
has entered into agreements with the winner of the April 2006
auction, pursuant to which Magticom will acquire from that party
license rights to all of their license rights. Magticom
anticipates paying the full winning bid price, plus a nominal
mark-up, for these license rights. Following the purchase,
Magticom s 3G spectrum holdings is less than 50% of total
3G spectrum, as required by Georgian law.

The utilization of both the 800 MHz license and the 3G
license will require Magticom to make certain investments in its
network and technology platforms beyond those anticipated for
the continuing operation of Magticom s present GSM mobile
telephony business. As indicated previously, Magticom intends to
spend in excess of $60.0 million in 2006 for its capital
expenditures program, this amount includes the aforementioned
license fee requirements and also the capital spending necessary
to utilize these spectrum licenses. Radiotelephony services
using the 800 MHz spectrum are generally based on CDMA
technology and those using the 3G spectrum are generally based
on UMTS or comparable technology, both of which provide for

53

Table of Contents   

efficient delivery of service features that complement or
significantly extend features available using Magticom s
present GSM technology. Magticom is not prohibited under
Georgian regulation and telecommunications law from offering
services under the new 800 MHz and 3G licenses in addition
to its current 900 MHz and 1,800 MHz GSM service
offerings.

PeterStar (St. Petersburg and the Northwest Region of
    Russia)   

PeterStar is a fixed telephony operator centered in St.
Petersburg, Russia and providing services principally in the
Northwest Region of Russia. PeterStar provides local telephony
services, transit services for other telecommunications
operators, and data communications services for businesses and
individual customers. These services are delivered to stationary
locations via copper, fiber optic or wireless loop connections.

Prior to August 1, 2005, the Company held a 71% equity
interest in PeterStar. The remaining 29% was owned by
Telecominvest, a telecommunications holding company, with
interests in over 30 telecommunications, media and technology
companies in Russia. As previously discussed, on August 1,
2005, the Company consummated the sale of its interest in
PeterStar  (see    Recent
Developments   PeterStar Sale Transaction ). 

Business Overview:  PeterStar is the leading CLEC in
Russia s second largest city, St. Petersburg, and is
licensed to offer telecommunications services throughout the
Northwest Region of Russia and Moscow. PeterStar commands a
significant share of the St. Petersburg market and enjoys a
volume of business almost twice that of its nearest CLEC
competitor in that market.

PeterStar provides conventional and IP-based voice telephony
services to its business and residential customers as well as a
variety of data communication, digital transport and Internet
access services. It also sells premises-based voice telephone
systems and data routing systems, to arrange connection of its
larger business customers to PeterStar s network and to
meet these customers  internal communication needs. It
offers several pre-paid calling cards, enabling their users to
make long distance Voice-over-IP ( VoIP  or
Internet-based telephony) calls or to access Internet service
providers from any conventional telephone. PeterStar s
network is interconnected with the networks of other major
Russian telephony operators as well as domestic and
international IP and VoIP operators. PeterStar earns revenues
from termination of these other operators  traffic on
PeterStar s network and arranges at a cost the termination
of its own customers  traffic at remote destinations served
by these other operators.

PeterStar operates a digital, fiber optic telecommunication
network that is interconnected with incumbent
St. Petersburg and Moscow public telephony operators and
with various mobile telephone, long distance and domestic and
international
 IP-service  operators.
PeterStar has deployed approximately 2,200 kilometers of fiber
optic cable in the St. Petersburg region and 80 kilometers of
fiber optic cable in Moscow. Large customers and premises with
high customer concentrations may be connected directly to this
fiber optic backbone network. PeterStar also operates facilities
capable of creating fixed wireless connections to
St. Petersburg subscribers and it leases copper wire
facilities from the incumbent St. Petersburg telephony
operator ( North West Telecom ) to reach certain
subscribers. PeterStar maintains wideband transport facilities
between its switching nodes in Moscow and St. Petersburg and
wideband facilities to its IP switching nodes in London and New
York. These transport facilities have enabled PeterStar to
service its customers  Russian inter-city trafficking
requirements and to efficiently provide international IP access
services.

PeterStar continually increases the long-run stability of its
business by expanding its own facilities network, thereby
decreasing dependence on facilities leased from other parties,
including North West Telecom. During 2004, approximately 92% of
PeterStar s new connections were arranged using
PeterStar s owned infrastructure. PeterStar has also
introduced its own data transport, Internet and VoIP services.
These new generation services meet the steadily expanding demand
for data and IP-based trafficking among commercial customers and
the significant growth in residential Internet access. Such
services provide a low-cost, high-function alternative to
traditional circuit switched telephony. The PeterStar brand is
well established in St. Petersburg as a hallmark for high
quality service at competitive prices.

54

Table of Contents   

Since 2003, PeterStar has pursued a strategy of regional
expansion from its initial base of operations in the city of St.
Petersburg. PeterStar opened branch operations in Moscow in 2003
to extend services to those of its St. Petersburg customers
with Moscow business interests. In April 2004, PeterStar
acquired controlling interest in Pskov City Telephone Company,
the incumbent fixed line telephony service provider in the city
of Pskov (the central administrative city of the Northwest
Russia regional district bordering Lithuania, Estonia and
Latvia). In September 2004, PeterStar acquired ADM, a leading
independent provider of telephony and IP-based services in the
city of Murmansk (a significant Russian seaport and central city
of a Northwest Russia regional district bordering Finland and
Norway). In February 2005, PeterStar acquired controlling
interest in TZP, an independent provider of telephony and
IP-based services in Kaliningrad (the Northwest Russia regional
district located within the borders of Poland). PeterStar is
actively pursuing other Northwest Russia regional acquisitions
as well as expanding the scope of its existing St. Petersburg
and subsidiary operations. This strategy focuses on rapidly
positioning PeterStar as the Northwest Region s largest
independent fixed line telecommunications operator centered on
its dominant position in the St. Petersburg area.

As of October 1, 2003, Baltic Communications Limited
( BCL ) became a wholly owned subsidiary of PeterStar.
Prior to that time, BCL was a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company. BCL provided local and long distance telephony services
to customers in the St. Petersburg area and operated its own
fiber optic transport network. Subsequent to its acquisition of
BCL, PeterStar successfully integrated BCL s staff and
network with its own operating facilities and shifted BCL s
telephony and data service customers to PeterStar-branded
services. BCL now serves as PeterStar s outlet for pre-paid
calling cards vended through a network of dealers.

55

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes PeterStar s combined key
financial and operating results for the last three years.
Stand-alone results of BCL prior to October 2003 are combined
with those of PeterStar since the acquisition of BCL by
PeterStar was a transaction between two companies under common
control. Accordingly, the results of BCL have been combined with
PeterStar on a historical basis for presentation purposes, since
PeterStar has accounted for its acquisition of BCL in a manner
similar to the pooling method of accounting. The 2004 financial
results include those of subsidiaries acquired during the year
from the date of each acquisition.

PeterStar s U.S. Dollar financial results have
historically been affected by the effects of either the strength
or weakness of the Russian Ruble, PeterStar s functional
currency since the beginning of 2003, against the
U.S. Dollar  (see Item 7.  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Results of Operations  
Consolidated Results of Operations for the Year Ended
December 31, 2004 Compared to Consolidated Results of
Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2003  
Fixed Telephony  for additional discussion of
PeterStar s financial performance). 

Customers and Markets:  PeterStar s customers are
businesses and residential consumers in St. Petersburg and the
other Russian cities in which PeterStar has established branches
or otherwise acquired an operating presence. It offers to these
customers conventional voice telephony services as well as a
variety of data, digital transport and Internet-based
communications services. Its original and presently still
largest service offering is conventional voice telephony,
through which a subscriber at a fixed location is provided with
a publicly accessible telephone number and the capability to
make and receive voice telephone calls. In the Vasilievsky
Island district of St. Petersburg and the city of Pskov,
PeterStar serves as the principal local provider of residential
telephone services, and is required to sell such services at
tariff rates set by the Russian regulatory authorities.
Telephony services for business customers and all data
communication, transport and Internet-based services are sold at
rates set by competitive market conditions.

56

Table of Contents   

Business Fixed  Telephony   
Businesses in St. Petersburg and other Northwest Russia regional
cities represent PeterStar s primary market. PeterStar
offers business customers integrated high-quality voice and data
communications services on a competitively priced basis. In this
capacity, PeterStar serves as an independent and competitive
alternative to the incumbent local telephony operator. This CLEC
business model has been widely adopted in St. Petersburg and
Moscow, where CLECs account for a preponderance of business
customer sales. PeterStar is the largest CLEC operating in the
St. Petersburg market. It markets through premises sales forces,
service centers and telemarketing programs. Its brand is very
well known in St. Petersburg and is reinforced through a
continuing stream of promotional programs.

PeterStar markets to both large businesses with complex or high
capacity voice and data communications requirements and often
significant internal as well as public access communications
needs; and to small and medium scale businesses whose
requirements may be less demanding. This market is highly
competitive and the customers are generally discerning in their
selection of price, service and quality mix. Customer loyalty
can be maintained, especially among larger business customers,
only through aggressive customer care and continued high quality
at competitive prices. Maintenance and continued growth of
business fixed telephony revenues is central to PeterStar s
marketing programs and it has introduced a variety of
competitive tariff and service arrangements to ensure the
continued satisfaction of current business customers and
attractiveness to new customers. In 2003, it established rates
for its business customers on a Russian Ruble denominated basis,
replacing former U.S. Dollar denominated rate structures,
as a measure to reduce PeterStar s revenue volatility due
to currency exchange rate fluctuations.

Regulated  Telephony    PeterStar is
also the primary provider of fixed residential telephony
services on a regulated price basis in the Vasilievsky Island
district of St. Petersburg and, through its recently acquired
Pskov subsidiary, in the city of Pskov. In this capacity,
PeterStar operates fragments of public service telephone network
in these areas. PeterStar s residential telephony tariffs
are set by the Russian regulatory authority so as to be the same
as rates offered elsewhere by the incumbent operator. Although
these residential service tariffs are considerably lower than
those charged PeterStar s business customers, PeterStar
management believes that its residential voice telephony
customer base represents a significant opportunity for sale of
value-added and non-regulated Internet-based and VoIP services.

Data and Internet  Services   
PeterStar s business telephony subscribers are also the
primary customers for its data communication, digital transport
and VoIP or other Internet-based services. Residential telephony
subscribers are offered
 dial-up  Internet access
and low cost VoIP Internet-based telephony services. This
 data market  is rapidly developing, growing at a rate
substantially greater than demand for conventional voice
telephony. For its business customers, PeterStar can provide a
wide range of data communication services over the same premises
access links used for existing voice telephony, thereby enabling
integrated voice and data communications systems.
PeterStar s digital transport channel offerings also enable
its business customers to configure their own internal data
networks spanning multiple locations. Residential customers can
use their conventional voice telephone line to access the
Internet via PeterStar s Internet
 dial-up  services and
also make low cost VoIP telephone calls using the Internet. In
2004, PeterStar initiated provision of wireless Internet access
(WiFi) at  hotspots  located in heavily frequented
commercial locations. Business proprietors in such locations can
offer their customers wireless connection to the Internet via
suitably equipped portable personal computers and similar data
processing appliances.

Carrier  Services    Although not
customers in the conventional sense, PeterStar maintains
commercial relationships with other telephony and IP-based
operators for the purpose of exchanging traffic with these other
operators. These operators pay PeterStar to terminate traffic
from their subscribers on PeterStar s network. Conversely,
PeterStar pays these operators to arrange termination of
PeterStar customer traffic at remote destinations on the other
operators  network. PeterStar may also transit traffic
through its network from one interconnected operator to another,
although this is a very low margin proposition not energetically
pursued. PeterStar has opened its own IP traffic interconnection
nodes in London and New York. Through these nodes, PeterStar can
directly exchange
 IP-based  voice and data
traffic with international operators. The nodes are connected to
PeterStar s switching systems and customer base in
Northwest Russia over high capacity channels, enabling PeterStar
to directly terminate international IP traffic in Russia at
attractive rates and to deliver Russia-originated IP traffic to
international destinations at low cost. The volume of such IP

57

Table of Contents   

traffic, approximately equally divided between incoming and
outgoing flows, has grown from 5 Terabytes (thousand billion
data characters) per month in 2002 to 87.6 Terabytes per month
in December 2004.

Equipment and Other  Sales   
PeterStar offers premises-based equipment to its business
customers. Such equipment supports a variety of high-function
forms of interconnection with PeterStar s voice telephony
and data service, as well as supporting a customer s
internal voice and data communication systems. PeterStar also
offers business customers planning and engineering services
connected with arrangement of the customer s overall
communication system. Although these sales and services do not
make up a material part of overall revenues, PeterStar s
ability to sell and service premises-based systems in
conjunction with its wide range of public access telephony and
data services positions PeterStar as a one-stop, full-service
provider to its business customers. This creates an important
competitive advantage, especially in the large business customer
market.

Service Provision:  PeterStar provides telephony and data
communication services by arranging suitable connecting links
between its core switching and transport network and a
customer s premises. Via these  local loops  or
 last mile  connections, customer voice telephone
calls reach or are delivered from PeterStar s voice
switching systems. These same premises connecting links can be
used to provide data communication channels for customer data
and Internet traffic. Certain of PeterStar s Internet
access and VoIP services can be reached from any conventional
telephone, whether or not directly connected to PeterStar s
network, by dialing suitable access numbers.

Business and  Regulated  Telephone Number
Services    PeterStar provides conventional local,
national and international voice telephony services as its core
line of business. Customer connection to the national and
international telephone network is provided via the
customer s connection to PeterStar s network.
Telephone numbers, obtained from the local incumbent operator
for PeterStar s exclusive use and recognized within the
national telephone numbering system of Russia, are assigned to
the customers. Voice communication to and from parties not
served by PeterStar s network, including local calls
to/from subscribers of other network operators, are arranged via
PeterStar s interconnection with other Russian and
international carriers.

PeterStar offers its business customers both regular telephone
number services (one line   one number), and serially
numbered services (several lines   one number). In the
latter instance, a single telephone number is assigned to
several subscriber lines terminating at the customer s
premises. Serially numbered service enable simultaneous calls to
the same telephone number and provide an effective solution for
the offices of large companies, and those offering information
and reference services. Business customers may also connect
their own premises-based voice telephone systems to
PeterStar s wide-area telephone network, enabling outward
and inward dialing to/from any telephone number in combination
with the customer s internal telephone calling. Larger
customers operating in several locations can organize their
PeterStar-provided services into a virtual private network
(VPN), enabling geographically disbursed users to obtain
services similar to those offered by single-premises voice
telephone systems.

PeterStar provides its residential (i.e.  regulated )
customers with a conventional telephone line and number. This
service arrangement is essentially indistinguishable from that
provided by the incumbent local operator to residents outside of
PeterStar s serving area. This service is price-regulated
as a condition of PeterStar maintaining its residential
telephony service provision rights, assuring that residential
customers in areas served by PeterStar have telephone rates
equal to those in the general metropolitan area. However,
PeterStar is able to offer its residential customers commonly
billed, value-added Internet access and VoIP services via their
local telephone. As residential demand for higher performance
Internet and data communications access grows, PeterStar is well
positioned to deliver such services to its residential customers
by virtue of their premises connection to PeterStar s
powerful backbone network.

Leased Line Data and Digital Services   
PeterStar offers a wide array of digital and data communication
services designed principally for use by business customers.
These services exploit the data transport capabilities of
PeterStar s extensive network and are an increasingly
frequent adjunct to business voice communication. These services
are provided via high-capacity digital links ( leased
lines ) between the customer s premises and
PeterStar s backbone network. Services delivered via these
links include: dedicated
 point-to -point channels
of various capacities for the customer s private data or
voice communication, ISDN

58

Table of Contents   

connections enabling fixed format multi-channel voice and data
communication with digital controls, frame relay and ATM
services enabling data communication among distributed points
via a shared data network, and high speed IP access to the
Internet. PeterStar also provides high capacity connecting links
for Internet-based value added service providers (i.e. the
 web  and  dot com  proprietors of
network-based services delivered over the Internet). Through
their PeterStar IP link, these service providers can
exchange Internet traffic with users around the world. This
array of data communication arrangements represents the fastest
growing PeterStar services segment.

Dial-Up, VoIP and DSL Data Services    PeterStar
also offers data and Internet focused services designed for
consumers that are available by dialing special access numbers
from any conventional telephone. These include
 dial-up  Internet access
and VoIP services that provide a low-cost alternative to
conventional voice telephony based on the Internet s IP
protocols. VoIP services offer a low-cost form of Internet-based
voice telephony that is especially attractive for consumer long
distance calling. These services are available to both
PeterStar s own conventional telephony subscribers and to
the subscribers of other telephony operators. Customers with
very aggressive Internet access requirements can obtain
dedicated, high-speed access via digital subscriber loop
(DSL) service. PeterStar, principally through its BCL
subsidiary, sells pre-paid calling cards usable for VoIP calling
and  dial-up  Internet
access. Such cards can be used in conjunction with any telephone
and enable the user to make VoIP long distance calls or access
Internet services providers. The cards are usable in
St. Petersburg, select Russian cities and in certain
foreign countries.

Carrier Interconnection    PeterStar provides
other carriers with the means to terminate traffic destined for
PeterStar s voice telephony subscribers. Via this
 transit  service, such carriers can deliver calls
from their customers to telephony subscribers of
PeterStar s network. This service is commonly used by other
Russian operators, both mobile and fixed; and by international
operators serving customers outside of Russia.
PeterStar s IP switching nodes in London and New York
provide a point of presence for exchanging traffic with
international IP and VoIP carriers. Such carriers can use
PeterStar s services at these nodes to exchange IP traffic
with destinations in Russia. PeterStar uses its interconnections
with other domestic and international carriers to arrange
delivery of its own subscribers  traffic to remote
destinations. Such carrier interconnections are most often
priced at wholesale rates, with the interconnecting parties
offsetting aggregate originating and terminating traffic charges
when settling net payments.

Equipment Provision    PeterStar is an official
distributor of Avaya equipment, a premises-based voice telephony
system capable of serving internal communications requirements
of business customers. This enables PeterStar to offer complete
 turn-key  solutions for its business customers (i.e.
wide-area telecommunications services integrated with the
customer s internal communication via premises-based
hardware). The equipment is sold to business customers using
PeterStar network services. PeterStar also sells Ericsson, Cisco
and General Datacom equipment, which is usable for implementing
a variety of premises-based voice and data communications
solutions.

Customer Care:  PeterStar provides a high level of service
support through its Russian and English speaking customer
service team and operates a
 24-hour,  7 days
per week bilingual helpdesk. PeterStar also maintains a separate
customer service team whose focus is to support only high-end
business customers.

Network and Technology:  PeterStar s fully digital
network in the St. Petersburg area consists of fiber optic
distribution facilities connected to switching nodes disbursed
throughout the area, with these nodes routing traffic through a
central switching center. The network nodes are in quarters
leased from the incumbent operator or in other leased or owned
quarters. PeterStar s network is interconnected with the
networks of other telephony operators in St. Petersburg
including the incumbent operator, Petersburg Transit Telecom,
Metrocom, Golden Telecom, Rostelecom, and the major Russian
mobile telephony operators. Through the central switching
center, the network is also connected over leased high-speed
digital transmission facilities to PeterStar s IP switching
nodes in London and New York. PeterStar leases high-speed
digital transmission facilities between St. Petersburg and
Moscow to enable telephony, data and dedicated channel
connections between its nodes in those cities. It also leases
lower capacity transmission facilities to interconnect its St.
Petersburg network with those of its other branches in Northwest
Russia. The PeterStar network supports telephony connections
over analog communication lines, E1 digital trunks or primary
rate

59

Table of Contents   

ISDN links. Dedicated
 point-to -point digital
channels for data or telephony use can be arranged at variety of
speeds and capacities. Internet access is provided on a
 dial-up  or dedicated
channel basis. A VoIP node provides voice telephony services in
an Internet-based format.

Customers are connected to the PeterStar network via direct
fiber optic connection, via wireless links to nearby fiber optic
nodes, or via copper links leased from the incumbent operator.
The method of connection depends on the services subscribed,
availability of direct fiber access at or near the
customer s premises, and anticipated customer traffic
volumes. Larger corporate customers and customers located in
concentrated business centers are generally linked to the
PeterStar network directly via fiber optic cable. This yields
efficient, marginally inexpensive, highly reliable connections
with very high transmission speeds; and is the preferable method
of connection wherever economically feasible. PeterStar is
continually expanding the extent of its fiber optic network to
readily enable such connection for an ever-wider range of
customers. PeterStar implemented narrow band wireless local loop
capabilities in 1999 and in the first quarter of 2003 launched
wireless broadband capabilities. Using these facilities,
connections can be arranged between a customer s premises
and PeterStar s backbone fiber optic network. This allows
rapid service deployment to new customers not yet reached
directly by PeterStar s fiber optic facilities. PeterStar
also leases copper wire facilities from the incumbent local
operator to reach certain customers. This is the least desirable
method of connection, due both to the quality and bandwidth
limitations of copper links and the dependence on the local
incumbent. PeterStar s network development strategies have
focused on significantly reducing the extent of its leased,
copper-based serving arrangements. At year-end 2004 PeterStar
leased only approximately 8 thousand copper wire subscriber
links from the incumbent operator.

PeterStar s Moscow branch operates a network comparable in
composition, but smaller in scale than the St. Petersburg
network. Other branches operate combinations of fiber optic and
wire-line distribution networks centered on local telephony or
data switching nodes. The largest of these is the Pskov branch
network, which provides conventional telephony services to the
residents of Pskov. These branch networks are interconnected to
the networks of other operators in each branch area, enabling
traffic exchange with the subscribers of those other networks.
Branch subscriber connection to St. Petersburg and other
national or international destinations can also be arranged
through channels to PeterStar s St. Petersburg switching
hub.

The PeterStar s St. Petersburg wireless access network
( WAN ) is built using a cellular radio structure,
with cells covering St. Petersburg and the surrounding area.
Each cell contains a base station with one or more radio ports.
Each radio port is equipped with sector antennas to implement a
 point-to -multipoint
access scheme. Subscriber terminals located at or near a
subscriber s premises enable up to 150 subscriber lines to
be connected. PeterStar s St. Petersburg WAN consists of
three segments   1.5 GHz, 2.4 GHz and
26 GHz.

PeterStar operates Internet access nodes in St. Petersburg,
Murmansk and Kaliningrad that enable dialed and dedicated access
to the world-wide Internet. PeterStar has implemented Frame
Relay, ATM, and Gigabit Ethernet data communications service
facilities utilizing the backbone transmission and subscriber
connection links of its underlying digital network. The Frame
Relay facilities support 2 Mbps switched data streams,
which can be subdivided into 64 Kbps channels. The ATM
facilities support data transmission at a speed of
622 Mbps. The Gigabit Ethernet facilities support data
communications speeds of 10/100 Mbps. These data
communication facilities support a wide array of Internet access
and virtual private network configurations.

Competition:  There are a number of well-established CLECs
operating in St. Petersburg, Moscow and the Northwest Russian
cities served by PeterStar s subsidiaries. These include
PTT, Golden Telecom, ComStar, Equant and Metrocom. PeterStar
remains the market leader among independent St. Petersburg
operators. PeterStar s Moscow branch is a comparatively
minor competitor in the Moscow city market and was established
principally to service PeterStar s St. Petersburg customers
with operations in Moscow. The recently acquired Pskov
subsidiary is the predominant supplier of conventional telephony
services in the city of Pskov. PeterStar s Murmansk
subsidiary is one of only two major suppliers of Internet access
and independent telephony services in that city.
PeterStar s Kaliningrad subsidiary is presently a minor
competitor and was acquired to serve as a base from which to
initiate significant service expansion in that city.
PeterStar s branches in other cities are small in
comparison to the incumbent local operators; and at this point
are providing only a point of presence for trafficking with
PeterStar s customers in St. Petersburg. The presence of

60

Table of Contents   

other CLECs in these branch cities is, however, also minimal and
PeterStar is currently not at any general competitive
disadvantage. Branch expansions as well as expansion of
subsidiary operations in Pskov, Murmansk and Kalinigrad will
proceed apace with general economic development in these
secondary Russian cities.

While PeterStar is competitively challenged in its initial St.
Petersburg operating territory, it has maintained market
leadership there. Relying on the brand strength established in
St. Petersburg, PeterStar has gradually expanded from this
initial base of operations in an effort to position itself as
the dominant independent operator in Northwest Russia, the
portion of the country bordering Finland, the Baltic States and
serving as a corridor into Europe. In doing so, PeterStar is
entering into direct competition for national positioning with
the largest Russian telephony operators. This has provoked
increased competitive aggressiveness from these large operators.
It also served to stimulate acquisition appetites that
ultimately contributed to arrangement of the PeterStar Sale.

Licenses:  PeterStar and its recently acquired
subsidiaries hold various material licenses to provide
telecommunications, telematic, data transmission and video
conferencing service and to lease circuits. These licenses are
generally granted by various Russian regulatory authorities for
5 to 10 years and are readily renewable through
negotiations. PeterStar s license for local and national
telephony was due to expire on November 28, 2004. In August
2004, PeterStar submitted an application to the Russian Federal
Telecommunications Regulation Agency (the
 Agency ) for a new license. At the time, due to
changes in Russian telecommunication legislation, the Agency
temporarily was not issuing any new licenses. However, on
October 29, 2004, the Agency formally extended the term of
PeterStar s license until March 1, 2005. On
February 18, 2005, the Agency further extended the term of
PeterStar s license until June 1, 2005. On
March 25, 2005, the Agency issued a letter confirming that
PeterStar s license application had been approved and that
the new license would be issued shortly. On May 13, 2005,
the Agency issued a letter stating that on April 26, 2005,
the Agency adopted resolution No. P23-2-05-02-4 granting
PeterStar license No. 31504. In the letter, the Agency
informed PeterStar that the actual license documentation was
being prepared and would be ready shortly. PeterStar received
its new license on June 27, 2005. The new license is valid
from April 26, 2005 through April 22, 2010.

In the event PeterStar violates the terms of its licenses, the
Agency has the power to terminate them, subject to certain
restrictions. PeterStar cannot operate its business without
these licenses.

Telecom Georgia (Tbilisi and the country of
    Georgia)   

Telecom Georgia, a long-distance transit operator in Tbilisi,
Georgia.

Ownership Structure, Control of Business  
    Consolidation Accounting, Prior and Prospective Accounting
    Treatment and Financial Accounting, Reporting and Disclosure
    Process Issues  

Ownership Structure, Control of Business  
Consolidation Accounting:  The Company presently has a 25.6%
economic ownership interest in Telecom Georgia. As previously
discussed  (   Recent Developments  
Reorganization of Ownership Interest in Business Ventures in
Georgia   Telecom Georgia Ownership Activity ),
 prior to mid-February 2005, the Company owned 30% of Telecom
Georgia, with the remaining 70% of Telecom Georgia owned by the
Georgian government (51%) and Bulcom-c Ltd., a private Cyprus
company (19%).

As a result of the restructuring of the Company s ownership
interest in Telecom Georgia in February 2005, the Company gained
the ability to exert operational oversight over Telecom Georgia.
On May 23, 2005, the charter of Telecom Georgia that was in
effect for the past several years was amended, as a result,
certain substantive participatory rights that were afforded to
the minority shareholder were eliminated, which allowed the
Company to follow the consolidation method of accounting.

In July 2006, the Company consummated a series of transactions
associated with its ownership interest in Telecom Georgia. As a
result of these transactions, the Company s economic
ownership interest in Telecom Georgia decreased to 20.7% and is
now held through various U.S. based holding companies in which
the

61

Table of Contents   

Company has the controlling interest, thereby enabling the
Company to continue to exercise operational oversight and also
consolidation accounting with respect to Telecom Georgia.
Further, in October 2006, the Company, through
International T LLC, an intermediary holding company
in which the Company has a 25.6% economic ownership interest,
acquired the 19% ownership interest held by Bulcom in Telecom
Georgia, thereby increasing the Company s economic interest
in Telecom Georgia to 25.6%.

Prior and Prospective Accounting Treatment:  Subsequent to
December 31, 2003, the Company had not recorded any share
of the losses of Telecom Georgia since, as of December 31,
2003 the Company s carrying balance in accordance with U.S.
GAAP was zero and the Company had no obligation to fund the
operations of Telecom Georgia.

Prior to February 2005, by virtue of its controlling 51%
ownership position, the Georgian government treated Telecom
Georgia essentially as a state-owned entity. The Georgian
Telecommunications Ministry and after the 2003 change in
government in Georgia, the Georgian State Property Commission,
almost solely directed the management of Telecom Georgia and the
Company s participation in the management of Telecom
Georgia was sharply limited. Although Telecom Georgia paid
dividends until 1999, the absence of dividends since that time
reflected a sharp decline in Telecom Georgia s cash flows.
This condition, coupled with the very limited degree to which
the Company was able to influence operations within Telecom
Georgia, prompted the Company s 2003 decision to completely
write-down its interest in this asset. The Company, however, did
not move to divest its interests in Telecom Georgia on the
possibility of ultimately being able to obtain the state s
interest in a future privatization. The Company believed that,
under such circumstances, the business of Telecom Georgia could
reasonably be developed in conjunction with the Company s
other business interests in Georgia. This privatization occurred
with the aforementioned February 2005 Company purchase of the
Georgian state s interest.

Financial Accounting, Reporting and Disclosure Process
Issues:  Although Telecom Georgia s financial accounting
workflow processes and corresponding accounting information
systems are sufficient for local statutory and tax reporting
purposes, they are inadequate for the timely preparation of U.S.
GAAP financial accounting and reporting. Telecom Georgia s
financial accounting workflow has been designed to meet its
respective statutory tax reporting requirements. As a result,
accounting transactions are often not recorded timely
( months  vs.  days ) within the statutory
accounts due to the delay in receipt of sufficient
documentation, both third party and internally generated, to
record those respective transactions. Furthermore, the statutory
accounting workflow process is fundamentally  cash 
vs.  accrual  based.

Compounding this issue is the fact that the local accounting
information systems were designed for the local statutory tax
reporting purposes. Accordingly, preparation of the financial
management accounting and reporting for Telecom Georgia requires
significant effort outside of the installed accounting software
packages, due to limitations of the respective local accounting
software packages. Thus, the finance personnel rely heavily upon
spreadsheet and database software packages that are not
integrated with the local accounting software system. This
workflow environment is manually intensive, subject to the risk
of human error and creates a situation whereby the ability to
properly analyze detailed account activity during the review
process is arduous, thus creating significant delays in the
review process.

These circumstances will demand considerable management and
operational restructuring within Telecom Georgia, including
implementation of procedures and placement of personnel
satisfactory to meet U.S. GAAP reporting and internal controls
requirements. The Company s planned business development
initiatives for Telecom Georgia are currently being implemented
by the management team of Telecom Georgia and will run parallel
with the Company s plans to implement efficient and
effective U.S. GAAP reporting and financial controls (See
     Company s Ability to Timely File
Future Reports with the SEC and Comply with Section 404
 Management Assessment of Internal Controls  of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( SOX
404 )   ).

Discussion of the
Telecom Georgia Business 

Overview and History:  Telecom Georgia is an international
long distance telephony and local telephony transit service
provider in the country of Georgia, with its center of
operations in that country s capital city,

62

Table of Contents   

Tbilisi. It maintains more than 1,100 international channels and
direct interconnection arrangements with international long
distance carriers. It also maintains interconnecting links with
all Georgian fixed and mobile operators and all other Georgian
long distance operators. Telecom Georgia is the oldest
independent long distance operator in Georgia and has exclusive
rights to use the dialing code 810, which was the long distance
access code employed throughout the former Soviet Union. This
positioning had earlier enabled Telecom Georgia to virtually
monopolize long distance traffic in Georgia; however, a number
of competitor long distance operators have entered the market
since Telecom Georgia s formation. Telecom Georgia is also
the oldest independent provider of  transit  services
in Georgia; an arrangement whereby other Georgian
telecommunications operators use Telecom Georgia s network
to exchange traffic among themselves. Telecom Georgia is also
licensed to directly provide local telephony services; but does
not do so at this time.

Telecom Georgia was formed in 1993, soon after the collapse of
the former Soviet Union and independence of the Georgian state.
Although funded by private investment, including the
Company s, it operated as a state-owned business managed by
the Georgian Ministry of Communications. Its purpose was to
create international telephony channels enabling voice
communication in and out of Georgia and to create an
interconnecting network within Georgia linking all domestic
telecommunications operators. The latter network would permit
the state-owned local telephone operator and any new fixed or
mobile telephony operators to unite in a common national
telephone system. The state recognized a keen need to quickly
develop both international and domestic networking capabilities
in consequence of the poor condition of Georgian communications
following the Soviet collapse. Telecom Georgia s founding
mission, therefore, reflected both conventional commercial
business development aspirations and the new Georgian
state s need to create a viable national telephony
infrastructure. Telecom Georgia was granted virtual monopoly
status and quickly prospered.

By 1999, Georgia had succeeded in attracting development of
three mobile telephony operators (including Magticom) and an
additional fixed line telephony operator, all privately owned
and managed, and had somewhat revitalized the state-owned public
fixed line telephony service network. Telecom Georgia provided
the interconnection network used to inter-link all of these
operators and enable their access to international destinations.
This much-improved condition of Georgia s national
communication infrastructure prompted the government to alter
regulations so as to enable new entrants into the international
long distance markets. In response, a number of new companies
were formed; many of them extensively exploiting Telecom
Georgia s domestic interconnection network to quickly
create service offerings that competed directly with Telecom
Georgia. Regulation of interconnection tariffs and policies
prohibited Telecom Georgia from extracting compensating rates
for the resultant business losses it sustained. Telecom
Georgia s share of lucrative international long distance
traffic fell quickly; yet, by state policy, it was required to
maintain the comparatively high costs of its national operator
transit network. The result was a precipitous decline in Telecom
Georgia s financial performance beginning in 1999.

Under state management, Telecom Georgia was highly
bureaucratized and employed an oversized workforce. Telecom
Georgia s internal accounting and control systems were
under-developed by western standards and state disinterest in
bottom line financial performance created no incentives to
remedy this situation. Loose supervision by the responsible
state ministry and the emergence of new long distance operators
eager to exploit Telecom Georgia s extensive domestic
interconnection network created opportunities for corruption. As
a minority owner, the Company had no rights to intervene in
these circumstances. Affairs at Telecom Georgia deteriorated
significantly, although it continued to maintain the most
extensive and arguably best quality national transit and
international access network in Georgia and its brand
recognition within Georgia and internationally remained strong.

In late 2003, a popular revolution occurred in Georgia. The
former government leadership was largely overthrown and the
post-revolutionary government leadership adopted a program aimed
at privatizing numerous state interests. The Company opened
negotiations with representatives of this new government in
early 2004, seeking to arrange the privatization of the
state s interest in Telecom Georgia. In the same period,
other post-revolutionary programs addressed correction of past
corrupt practices, including investigation of the possibility of
such practices at Telecom Georgia. In mid-2004 and largely in
consequence of these investigations, Telecom Georgia s
former General Director resigned and fled Georgia. Further
resignations of

63

Table of Contents   

Telecom Georgia s former leadership followed. With the
state s agreement, the Company actively supported
restructuring work within Telecom Georgia initiated by the
incoming General Director and his newly recruited management
team. These efforts resulted in Telecom Georgia being able to
sustain financial viability through 2004. They also afforded the
Company an opportunity to conduct some due diligence review at
Telecom Georgia, although this was limited by the poor condition
of Telecom Georgia s internal accounting records and
business forecasting processes.

As previously indicated, in February 2005, the Company acquired
the Georgian governments 51% economic interest in Telecom
Georgia for cash consideration of $5.0 million  (see
   Recent Developments   Reorganization
of Georgia Holdings ) . Despite Telecom Georgia s
presently poor financial condition, the Company pursued
acquisition of the state s 51% interest to gain control of
a business that is, for all the aforementioned reasons,
centrally positioned within Georgia s national telephony
infrastructure. With the controlling position it recently
acquired in Magticom, Georgia s largest domestic telephony
operator, the Company anticipates considerable strategic
opportunity arising from its control of Telecom Georgia,
Georgia s most extensively interconnected international
long distance operator. This, the continuing strong brand image
of Telecom Georgia (it is generally still recognized by
international operators as  the  national
representative of long distance traffic into Georgia), and the
exclusive rights to use the most popular and well-established
long distance dial access code of 810, prompted the
Company s acquisition. As part of the purchase agreement,
the Georgian state ceased any further investigations into
Telecom Georgia s past practices, warranted that no state
claims against Telecom Georgia are pending, and further
warranted to pay certain long outstanding amounts due from state
agencies to Telecom Georgia.

Customers and Services:  Telecom Georgia s customers
are ordinary fixed and mobile telephone subscribers in Georgia,
other telephony operators in Georgia, and international
telephony carriers. Telecom Georgia does not maintain its own
direct links to long distance callers in Georgia. Instead,
telephone subscribers of any domestic operator can reach Telecom
Georgia s long distance service by dialing the access code
810. Such calls are then routed by the end operator to Telecom
Georgia, which bills the subscriber for the long distance call.
Domestic operators may also send their general long distance
traffic (i.e. long distance calls dialed without any specific
access code) to Telecom Georgia for routing to the appropriate
international or domestic destination. Telecom Georgia collects
a fee from the domestic operator for this service. International
callers to Georgia reach Telecom Georgia through their
international carrier, whereupon Telecom Georgia routes the call
to the appropriate domestic operator for completion to the end
subscriber in Georgia. Telecom Georgia collects a fee from the
international operator for arranging this call termination.

Outgoing Call Services    Telecom Georgia
competes in the retail long distance services market with its
810-accessed service. Georgian telephone subscribers, both
businesses and consumers, can dial this access prefix primarily
when making international long distance calls. Telecom Georgia
completes the call via an interconnecting link it has
pre-arranged with an international carrier serving the country
of the call s destination. Telecom Georgia competes for
this retail traffic by establishing competitive rates and
quality based on the service arrangements it has negotiated with
the international carriers. It provides itemized, post-paid
billing of its retail customers  long distance calls. It
also sells pre-paid calling cards usable from telephones within
and outside Georgia. Telecom Georgia promotes use of the 810
access code to Georgian consumers, emphasizing call quality,
competitive pricing and customer service. The brands
 Telecom Georgia  and  810  are well known
among consumers due to Telecom Georgia s early entry into
post-Soviet Georgia s telecommunications market and to the
lasting familiarity of 810 as the only long distance access code
used within the former Soviet Union. Telecom Georgia also fields
a business sales force that targets customized calling
arrangements for major business customers.

Telecom Georgia also provides long distance call services on a
wholesale basis to other Georgian operators. The operators can
send their general long distance traffic to Telecom Georgia,
while billing their calling subscribers a general long distance
rate. The operators pay Telecom Georgia a pre-negotiated
wholesale rate for this service, and the calling subscriber is
unaware that Telecom Georgia is handling the call. Telecom
Georgia competes for such wholesale traffic by offering high
service quality, broad access to international destinations at
competitive rates and technical convenience of interconnection.
Telecom

64

Table of Contents   

Georgia s interconnection network, the most extensive in
Georgia, serves as a strong foundation for growing this
wholesale outgoing trade.

Incoming Call Services    Telecom Georgia
provides call traffic terminating services into Georgia for
international carriers. Such call traffic is handed off to
Telecom Georgia by the international carrier at various
pre-arranged points of interconnection. Telecom Georgia has
created the widest array of such international carrier
connections of any Georgian operator. It competes for
international carrier traffic on the basis of service quality,
reliability, convenience and professionalism of business
arrangements and, to a lesser extent, on price.

Transit Services    By regulation (and original
founding intent), Telecom Georgia s call terminating
services are also available to other Georgia telephony
operators. Telecom Georgia s highly interconnected
inter-operator network enables calls to be exchanged among these
domestic operators for purposes other than international long
distance calling. Such calls  transit  Telecom
Georgia s network without leaving the country. This is
advantageous, especially to smaller domestic operators that
cannot afford to construct their own interconnections to all
other Georgian operators. Subscriber traffic destined for
another Georgian operator s network can be presented to
Telecom Georgia for subsequent routing to that other operator.
Domestic operators using this arrangement are required to pay
Telecom Georgia a regulated call terminating rate when
presenting traffic for termination elsewhere in Georgia.

In certain instances, the regulated wholesale rate an operator
pays to Telecom Georgia for completing calls to another Georgian
network may be less than retail rates prevalent in the market
for calling subscribers of that other network. In such
instances, a call originating operator can realize a profit
solely from the arbitrage between the regulated wholesale and
unregulated, market prevailing retail rates.

Other Services    Telecom Georgia offers
telephone subscribers certain value-added services, including
Internet access and information services. This has historically
not been a principal business focus of Telecom Georgia and its
position in the consumer value-added services market is
minimally developed. However, Telecom Georgia s extensive
network and general Georgian consumer recognition of the
 Telecom Georgia  brand create considerable
opportunity for future development of such services. Telecom
Georgia is also licensed to provide direct telephony services in
Georgia, although it has not yet done so. Exploiting this
license right would require build-out of its own subscriber
access network, which Telecom Georgia might undertake in the
future in conjunction with the Company s other Georgian
telecommunications businesses.

Telecom Georgia offers other Georgian operators limited direct
use of its network facilities on a commercial basis, including
leasing of
 point-to -point
dedicated transport channels. It also continues to operate an
inter-city call routing network used by the state-owned fixed
telephony service provider. This state operator pays a monthly
fee for this arrangement, which was originally established to
compensate for the state-operator s limited inter-city
transport networking capabilities in eastern Georgia. These
specialized service arrangements do not provide material revenue
to Telecom Georgia and will likely be phased out over time.

Costs of Service Provision:  Telecom Georgia pays other
operators to handle Telecom Georgia s traffic. These costs
of service provision represent a very material portion of
Telecom Georgia s gross revenues. Telecom Georgia s
continued profitability depends significantly on arranging
attractively priced agreements with international carriers that
can be maintained at low operating cost; and on promoting direct
end subscriber use of the 810 access code for international
calling. Neither of these arrangements is subject to Georgian
cost-based regulation of domestic wholesale interconnection
rates, and thus they provide the most significant basis for
building sustainable competitive advantage.

Costs of International Long Distance Services   
Telecom Georgia pays international carriers to deliver calls
originated in Georgia to other worldwide destinations served by
the carrier. Pricing is based on long-term agreements negotiated
with the international carriers, which reflect the
carriers  costs to arrange communication links with Telecom
Georgia and the volume of traffic committed. Telecom Georgia
also collects a fee from these international carriers for
termination of traffic into Georgia. The traffic exchange
agreements with the carriers typically provide for netting of
call origination and termination payments. International
carriers are often willing to pay a higher fee for call
termination into Georgia, if offered a larger volume of Georgia-

65

Table of Contents   

originated traffic destined for the other international
destinations served by the carrier. International traffic
agreements are negotiated in a market operating for this
purpose, with periodic meetings amongst worldwide operators.

Costs of Domestic Services    Telecom Georgia
also pays domestic end operators for having forwarded their
subscribers  810 calls to Telecom Georgia. It also pays
these domestic operators to complete calls routed from Telecom
Georgia to the operator s subscribers. Rates for both
arrangements are set by the Georgian regulatory authority. This
regulation is presently under review by the Georgian government,
with new policies expected during calendar year 2006. The
announced aim of the regulation is cost-based pricing that
ensures fair and equal terminating access to all Georgian
operators. The further aim is pricing that eliminates the
arbitrage between unregulated retail calling subscriber rates
and regulated wholesale operator interconnection rates.

Network and Technology:  Telecom Georgia owns and operates
a digital switching center in Tbilisi (the Georgian capital
city) that is equipped to route calls among the various domestic
and international networks to which Telecom Georgia is
interconnected. This switching center serves only inter-operator
trunks and presently has no end subscriber line capabilities.
The switching center is connected to all of Georgia s other
telephony operators (both local and long distance, fixed and
mobile) via transport channels carried on microwave or fiber
optic systems. Telecom Georgia both owns and leases such
transport channel capacity. Traffic links to international
operators are arranged over satellite channels (via Intelsat and
Turksat earth stations) and over fiber optic and microwave
channels extending into Russia. At present Georgia has no
land-line international communications links except those into
Russia. Future development of fiber optic links to Turkey and
central Asia is planned.

Telecom Georgia s network and technology infrastructure
capital spending program during the past four years, including
2005 has been relatively modest. Telecom Georgia currently plans
to incur in excess of $0.5 million in capital expenditures
during 2006, principally for its network and technology
infrastructure.

Competition:  With the exception of its retail 810 long
distance access services, Telecom Georgia operates in an
essentially wholesale market. It competes for traffic
termination on the basis of its extensive interconnection
network and the quality and reliability of its service. Prices
for domestic call termination remain regulated; however,
international call termination rates were deregulated in early
2005. That move gives Telecom Georgia a potential competitive
advantage over other Georgian long distance operators that are
less well-known internationally and have less extensive or
reliable domestic interconnection networks.

Telecom Georgia competes in the retail consumer market with its
810 long distance services. Pricing is not regulated and can be
set to leverage traffic exchange agreements Telecom Georgia
negotiates with international carriers. In this retail market,
Telecom Georgia competes with a large number of long distance
service providers that came into existence after the 1999
changes in Georgia regulatory policy that opened competition
with Telecom Georgia. Most significant among these are Global
One and Georgia Online, both of which presently command retail
market shares comparable to Telecom Georgia s. Telecom
Georgia competes in the retail market primarily on the basis of
quality of service, pricing, contractual relationships and the
well-known status of its 810 dialing code.

Regulatory:  The present Georgian telecommunications
regulatory and legislative regime is at an early state of
development and is relatively unsophisticated and
non-transparent as compared to those of other developed markets,
as a result Telecom Georgia s business operations could be
adversely affected should this condition continue (see
 Item 1A.  Risk Factors   The present
state of telecommunications regulatory and legislative practice
in Georgia may adversely affect the Company s Georgian
operations in ways that would not be typical of other developed
markets ). 

Furthermore, the Georgian parliament continues developing
legislation and frameworks for regulation of the
telecommunications sector. A new basic telecommunications law
was passed before year-end 2005, with further refinements and
extensions expected during 2006 and beyond. The legislative and
regulatory regime will likely continue to evolve in significant
ways and Telecom Georgia has little practical means to predict
the specific character of the eventual legislative landscape or
its specific effect on its operations.

66

Table of Contents   

Laws and regulations passed during 2005 place limits on
interconnection tariffs, set terms for license issuance or
renewal, and enforce provisions for fair market access. These
new conditions are somewhat less economically favorable to the
Telecom Georgia than those historically in effect. As required
under the preexisting Georgian telecommunications law, Telecom
Georgia continues to be negatively impacted by the
regulators  insistence on encouraging  new market
entrant  competition by means of policy that has adverse
consequences; e.g. Telecom Georgia has been obligated to
continue to provide telecommunication services to local new
market entrants irrespective of the new market entrants 
ability to pay for the services that Telecom Georgia provides
(see  Item 1A.  Risk Factors   The Company
now operates solely in the country of Georgia, which presents a
general risk profile that may be materially different from that
ordinarily expected by U.S. investors   Evolving
Georgian Telecommunications Legislative Process ). 

Licenses:  Telecom Georgia has various material licenses
for the provision of telecommunications services. These licenses
are generally granted by the various Georgian regulatory
authorities and are generally renewable through negotiations.
Telecom Georgia has no material licenses expiring with the next
three years (see  Item 1A.  Risk Factors  
The Company now operates solely in the country of Georgia, which
presents a general risk profile that may be materially different
from that ordinarily expected by U.S. investors  
Limitations in the Georgian Licensing Regime ). 

Cable TV   Ayety TV (Tbilisi, Georgia)   

Ayety, a cable television provider in Tbilisi, Georgia.

Ownership Structure and Control of the Business:  The
Company presently owns a 85% interest in Ayety. The remaining
15% interest is owned by Mtatsminda, a Georgian company that was
previously connected with the operations at Tbilisi s main
state-controlled TV broadcasting tower. The Company increased
its original minority ownership position in Ayety to the present
85% level in September 30, 2000 through the acquisition of
the interests of all other Ayety founding partners, except
Mtatsminda. Currently, the Company is involved in a number of
commercial and legal disputes with Mtatsminda  (see
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings   Legal Matters
with Mtatsminda   International Telcell SPS vs
Mtatsminda ). 

Pursuant to provisions of the original Charter of Ayety, the
Company s 85% ownership interest granted the Company sole
rights to participate in management of Ayety, including the
appointment of Ayety s general director and financial
director. In June 2004, when the Company attempted to appoint a
new general director of Ayety, it was notified by Mtatsminda
that a new Charter of Ayety was prepared and filed in the
Georgian courts (which are responsible for company registration
in Georgia) (the  New Charter ). Pursuant to the terms
of the New Charter, unanimous shareholder approval is required
for certain key decisions, including the removal and appointment
of a new general director. Mtatsminda also informed the Company
that it would not support the appointment of a new general
director.

The Company believes that the New Charter should not be
recognized as an enforceable legal arrangement since the process
by which the New Charter was prepared and filed in the Georgian
courts was conducted in a manner that was not in compliance with
applicable Georgian law. However, since the New Charter has
already been filed and accepted by the Georgian courts, the New
Charter is valid unless and until successfully challenged. In
December 2004, the Company filed a claim against Mtatsminda to
have the New Charter declared invalid. A hearing on the merits
of this case was held on April 25, 2006, and the court
ruled in favor of Mtatsminda. The Company plans to appeal this
ruling.

Management has concluded that based on the existence of the New
Charter, Mtatsminda had secured practical and operational
oversight over Ayety, both by virtue of its claims with respect
to the New Charter and through its direct associations with the
General Director of Ayety. Further, as the Company has
determined that Ayety is a variable interest entity for which
the Company is the primary beneficiary, the Company is required,
pursuant to FIN No. 46R to consolidate Ayety effective
March 31, 2004. However, the

67

Table of Contents   

Company has been unable to prepare U.S. GAAP financial
statements of Ayety subsequent to June 30, 2004 to include
within its consolidated financial statements, due to:

The Company no longer has access to the statutory accounting
    records of Ayety which is a prerequisite to the completion of
    the U.S. GAAP financial results; and 

The Company no longer has favorable relations with management of
    Ayety, since the Company attempted to terminate the General
    Director of Ayety in late June 2004. Accordingly, even if the
    Company had access to the statutory accounting records of Ayety,
    the Company would not be able to obtain certainty that all
    economic activities of the business had been properly considered
    for U.S. GAAP accounting treatment. 

Accordingly, as allowed under FIN No. 46R for all
periods subsequent to June 30, 2004, the Company no longer
consolidates Ayety, until such time that the Company s
operational oversight and oversight issues surrounding its
investment in Ayety have been resolved. The Company s
U.S. GAAP carrying balance in Ayety was zero as of
June 30, 2004.

Despite the aforementioned conflict over control of Ayety, the
Company believes retention of its interest in this business is
strategically advantageous. Ayety owns an extensive cable
distribution system in Tbilisi that is potentially usable for
data and voice communication as well as TV programming.
Ayety s subscriber relationships can potentially be further
developed in connection with marketing of services offered by
the Company s other Georgian businesses. In addition,
Tbilisi and other Georgian cities represent an evident and
largely undeveloped market for quality cable TV services.
Although Ayety currently suffers from considerable management
turmoil, the Company believes that these potential business
development opportunities warrant further attempts to
rehabilitate this business venture.

Business Overview:  Ayety offers multi-channel video
programming to subscribers in Tbilisi, Georgia. Programming is
delivered either via wireless
 point-to -multi-point
broadcast (MMDS) or over coaxial cable to the
subscriber s premises. A basic channel suite and certain
premium programming are available to subscribers equipped for
MMDS reception. Coaxial cable subscribers can obtain the basic
channel suite. Subscribers pay a monthly fee for services. Ayety
obtains video programming content from local broadcast sources
and satellite downlinks.

Cable television service provision in Georgia is substantially
unregulated and un-policed. Pirating of signal is very common:
by residents via taps into cables, by cable operators from each
other s systems, and by cable operators from video
programming sources. This situation has generally resulted in
poor quality cable TV service to those subscribers actually
paying for service as well as those pirating signals.
Ayety s MMDS wireless service is difficult to pirate and
has retained reasonable quality. Its cable-delivered services,
however, are extensively pirated, with considerable consequent
damage to cable facilities and service quality. The practical
remedy for such pirating is encryption of cable signals; a
measure which both frustrates pirates and enables various
premium service and pay-per-view options. Implementation of
encrypted service is expensive, however, and the Company will
undertake such investment only in conjunction with collateral
business developments in its other Georgian businesses (and
after resolution of current Ayety management and control issues).

Description of Business   Non-Core Media
    Businesses (Radio Broadcasting and Cable TV)   

At the beginning of 2004, the Company still held for sale
certain non-core business ventures consisting of nineteen radio
broadcast stations operating in Finland, Hungary, Bulgaria,
Estonia, Latvia and the Czech Republic and four cable television
networks operating in Lithuania, Romania, Russia and Belarus.
Pursuant to a decision of the Board of Directors made on
September 30, 2003 approving management s
recommendation to dispose of all of the aforementioned non-core
business interests, the Company concluded that these business
ventures met the criteria for classification as discontinued
business components as outlined in SFAS No. 144.
Accordingly, as of December 31, 2003, the statement of
operations of the Company for current and prior periods has
presented the results of operations of these non-core business
ventures, including

68

Table of Contents   

any gain or loss recognized on disposition, in income (loss)
from discontinued components and the balance sheet presents the
assets and liabilities of such operations as assets and
liabilities of discontinued components.

Other Business Factors   

Environmental Protection  

As previously discussed, the Company has been in operation since
1929 through its predecessors and, over the years, has carried
out, itself or through wholly-owned subsidiaries, business
operations in diverse industries within the United States
including equipment, sporting goods, furniture manufacturing,
sheet metal processing, and trucking. The Company has divested
all of its former U.S. operations. However, in the course
of these divestitures, it has retained, by means of seller
indemnification obligations or as a matter of law, actionable
environmental legal obligations.

In 1987, the Company agreed to indemnify a former subsidiary of
the Company for certain obligations, liabilities and costs
incurred by the subsidiary arising out of environmental
conditions existing on or prior to the date on which the
subsidiary was sold by the Company. Since that time, the Company
has been involved in various environmental matters involving
property owned and operated by the subsidiary, including
 clean-up  efforts at
landfill sites and the remediation of groundwater contamination.
This activity included, but was not limited to, the
Company s decision to agree to participate, on behalf of
the subsidiary, in remediation pursuant to a global settlement
in 1999 with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency at a
superfund site in Michigan. The costs incurred by the Company
with respect to these matters have not been material during any
year through and including the year ended December 31,
2004. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had a remaining
reserve of approximately $0.4 million, which it believes is
sufficient to cover its environmental obligations associated
with its former subsidiaries  operational activities.

On October 6, 2005, the Company entered an agreement with
the former subsidiary of the Company, whereby, the
Company s previously executed seller indemnity was released
subject to the Company agreeing to accept $1.0 million, as
payment in full, from the former subsidiary as related to an
outstanding $2.3 million obligation that was subject to a
promissory note that was executed in connection with the 1987
asset purchase agreement. The former subsidiary had not been
making the required payments under the promissory note since
late 2001 and the Company had recorded a full reserve for the
outstanding balance when the payments ceased. The Company, as a
matter of law, could still be held accountable for this former
subsidiary s environmental legal obligation should the
purchaser of this former subsidiary fail to meet future
actionable environmental legal obligations.

Such agreement will result in the Company recognizing other
non-operating income of $1.3 million in the fourth quarter
of 2005, which also includes the release of the Company s
litigation reserve, since the Company was released from the
aforementioned agreement to indemnify the former subsidiary
under the respective environmental matters.

Further, the Company has undertaken specific clean up activities
at a contaminated parcel that it continues to own directly. As
of December 31, 2004, the Company had a remaining reserve
of approximately $0.1 million, which it believes is
sufficient to cover its anticipated remediation obligations for
this particular parcel of land.

The Company could incur additional cleanup obligations with
respect to undetected environmental problems at other locations.
Furthermore, its obligation to remediate such environmental
problems could arise as a result of changes in legal
requirements, since the original divestitures. Even though these
divestitures may have occurred many years ago, the Company
cannot assure that environmental matters will not arise in the
future that could have a material adverse effect on its results
of operations or financial condition  (see
   Risks Associated with the Company  
The Company could incur environmental liabilities as a result of
its current operations and past divestitures, the costs of which
could materially affect its results of operations ). 

69

Table of Contents   

Employees  

The Company directly employs an executive management and support
workforce to undertake business development, oversee activities
of its business ventures and manage the Company s
financial, legal and administrative affairs. Prior to
August 1, 2005, the principal work locations of these
employees were the Company s U.S. office in Charlotte,
North Carolina and the Company s overseas office in Moscow,
Russia. Subsequent to August 1, 2005, the principal work
locations of these employees are the Company s
U.S. office in Charlotte, North Carolina and the
Company s business venture offices in Georgia. Many of
these corporate management and support employees serve pursuant
to contracts with the Company or, prior to August 1, 2005,
served pursuant to contracts with the Company s Russian
branch office.

The Company s business ventures (Magticom and Telecom
Georgia) each directly employ a locally recruited workforce for
their local operational, managerial and administrative
requirements. These employees serve pursuant to contracts or
other labor agreements arranged directly with each operating
subsidiary. The General Director of Magticom is employed under a
dual contract; one with the Company and one with Magticom. The
number of employees in these respective categories at
December 31, 2005 is set out in the following table.

(1)  
     
    Including the General Director of Magticom. 

(2)  
     
    Excluding the General Director of Magticom. 

Employment by the business ventures is regulated under Russian
and Georgian labor laws, which may impose certain obligations on
these business ventures with respect to employee benefits and
termination of employees. PeterStar and Magticom have
implemented bonus programs that provide for certain payments in
the event these business ventures meet or exceed operational or
financial targets set for each year. In 2004, the Company
implemented a Key Employee Retention Program for most of its
employees (does not include the Company s executive
officers) in Charlotte (the  2004 Charlotte KERP 
plan). The 2004 Charlotte KERP plan provided for immediate cash
bonuses, up to three months of salary, to employees upon the
implementation of the program to incentivize those employees to
prepare for corporate level due diligence by the buyer group
during the holiday season, with more significant cash bonuses to
be paid in the event of a sale of the Company, including a sale
of more than 90% of its assets by September 30, 2005. Since
a sale of the Company did not occur prior to such date, no
further payments were made or will be made pursuant to the 2004
Charlotte KERP plan. Furthermore, certain PeterStar employees
received certain bonuses from the Company upon the completion of
the PeterStar Sale. The Company believes that its employee
relations are generally good.

Segment and Geographic Data   

Business segment data and information regarding the
Company s foreign revenues by country/geographic area are
included in Notes 6 and 11 in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof.

Item 1A.       
     
      Risk Factors   

The Company has not timely filed its required periodic
    reports with the SEC and cannot provide assurances as to when
    this condition will be fully remedied.  

The Company has not completed the U.S. GAAP financial statements
for its business ventures and corporate operations for the
fiscal quarters ended March 31, June 30, and
September 30, 2005, the fiscal year

70

Table of Contents   

ended December 31, 2005 nor the fiscal quarters ended
March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2006; and as
a result, it has not filed the applicable periodic financial
reports with the SEC for those respective time periods.

At this time, the Company cannot predict with confidence when it
will file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters
ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2005; its
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 2005; or the
quarterly reports on
Form  10-Q  for the
quarters ended March 31, June 30, and
September 30, 2006.

This situation arises, in part, as a consequence of the
restatement process that the Company has recently completed for
periods prior to 2004 (see  Item 1.
 Business   Restatement of Prior Financial
Information   2005 Restatement Work Effort ) ,
which consumed a substantial portion of corporate finance
personnel resources that would otherwise been applied to the
timely filing of its 2005 and 2006 periodic reports with the
SEC. However, the Company s ability to prepare U.S. GAAP
consolidated financial statements to enable the Company to
timely file its periodic reports with the SEC is impaired by a
number of more basic and potentially long-lived conditions,
including in particular:

Comparative Limitations in Georgian Business Practice.
     Although not inherently deficient in capacity to properly
    safeguard business assets, present Georgian business practices
    are substantially less sophisticated than those common in the
    United States. Cultural and educational precedents for
    application of common U.S. business practices are also
    generally absent or minimally developed in both the Georgian
    private and public sectors. In consequence, the finance staff of
    the Company s business ventures, which is almost entirely
    locally recruited and trained, may not be adequately prepared to
    implement all management, financial accounting and governance
    practices anticipated by current U.S. regulation; 

Inadequacies in Business Venture Financial Accounting
    Workflow Processes and Accounting Information Systems.  The
    current accounting workflow processes and accounting information
    systems within the business ventures are sufficient for local
    statutory tax reporting purposes; however, they are inadequate
    for the timely preparation of U.S. GAAP financial accounting and
    reporting. 

The local financial accounting workflow has been designed to
    meet the business ventures  respective statutory tax
    reporting requirements. As a result, accounting transactions are
    often not recorded timely ( months  vs.
     days ) within the statutory accounts due to the delay
    in receipt of sufficient documentation, both third party and
    internally generated, to record those respective transactions.
    Furthermore, the statutory accounting workflow process is
    fundamentally  cash  vs.  accrual  based. 

Furthermore, compounding this issue is the fact that the local
    accounting information systems of the business ventures were
    designed for the local statutory tax reporting purposes.
    Accordingly, preparation of the financial management accounting
    and reporting for the Company s business ventures requires
    significant effort outside of the installed accounting software
    packages, due to limitations of the respective local accounting
    software packages. Thus, the finance personnel rely heavily upon
    spreadsheet and database software packages that are not
    integrated with the local accounting software system. This
    workflow environment is manually intensive, subject to the risk
    of human error and creates a situation whereby the ability to
    properly analyze detailed account activity during the review
    process is arduous, thus creating significant delays in the
    review process. 

Although the Company has initiated projects to replace certain
    of the business ventures accounting information systems and
    attempt to reengineer the accompanying workflow processes of its
    business venture operations, such work will require considerable
    time to complete. In the interim, the Company s ability to
    complete U.S. GAAP financial statements for its business
    ventures on a timely basis will be significantly impaired. 

Lack of Qualified Finance Personnel.  The Company does not
    have sufficient personnel with requisite accounting skills
    present in Georgia to prepare and finalize, on a timely basis,
    the U.S. GAAP financial results for the Company s business
    ventures. The recruitment and retention of qualified
    U.S. GAAP accountants in Georgia is difficult due to the
    high demand for individuals with these skills in this part of
    the world and the very limited availability of such individuals.
    The Company has attempted to 

71

Table of Contents   

address this limitation by assigning additional responsibilities
    for business venture accounting and reporting activities to its
    U.S.-based corporate finance staff. This has proven ineffective
    due to the inherent difficulties in coordinating work occurring
    in such widely separated locations. Recruitment efforts
    continue, but full placement of an adequately sized and trained
    staff in Georgia may require substantial time. 

The fact that full remediation of these factors cannot be
accomplished without considerable further effort, suggests that
they will likely produce delays in issuance of periodic reports
with the SEC for future fiscal periods. The Company cannot
predict with confidence or provide assurances as to when this
situation will be ultimately and fully resolved.

Furthermore, the Company s ability to timely file future
periodic reports with the SEC is also negatively influenced by
the fact that the Company s market capitalization exceeded
$75 million as of June 30, 2005. On June 30,
2005, the Company s market capitalization was
$88.9 million, as such, the Company is considered an
accelerated filer with regards to its obligations for the filing
of periodic reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act and for
complying with the provisions of SOX 404.

With respect to the Company s obligations for the filing of
periodic reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act, the
Company is obligated, beginning with its Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31,
2006, to file that report with the SEC within forty days after
the respective quarter-end period.

With respect to the Company s obligations to comply with
SOX 404, the Company anticipates that the work effort and the
associated costs that it will incur for it to meet the SOX 404
internal control compliance requirements to be substantial in
fiscal year 2006, 2007 and beyond. Furthermore, the
Company s compliance with SOX 404 will require changes to
some of the Company s corporate accounting and corporate
governance practices, in the short-term (including the
requirement that the Company issue a report on its internal
controls); however, in the long-term, the Company is very
concerned about the changes that will be required to the
accounting and governance practices of its business ventures. In
summary, the Company believes that considerable effort beyond
that presently expended in managing the Company s financial
reporting activities will be required to satisfactorily complete
these tasks, especially within its business ventures. The
aforementioned weaknesses in the business venture workflow
processes, accounting systems and staff will further adversely
affect the time and cost required to complete the tasks. This
condition may extend beyond 2006 and until such time as the
Company s business ventures routinely operate in the
fashion contemplated by US public company regulation. Given
circumstances in Georgia mentioned here and elsewhere in this
report, the Company cannot assure you that such a state will
ever be reached.

The inability of the Company to timely file all reports required
under applicable U.S. securities regulations has certain
potentially adverse consequences for holders of the
Company s securities, including, without limitation:

Inability of securities holders to timely assess events which
    might prompt acquisition or disposition of the securities; 

Generally adverse effect on the market price of such securities
    due to erosion of security holder confidence in the
    Company s performance; 

Inability of the Company to appropriately promote market
    interest in its securities due to limitations on its capacity to
    disclose current performance information; 

Inability of the Company to convene shareholder meetings,
    solicit proxies or conduct other actions that are preconditioned
    on having current periodic filings; and 

Sanctions by the SEC for late filing that may result in
    suspension or other limitations on trading in the Company s
    securities. 

These conditions create material risks for investment in the
Company s securities that go beyond ordinary business risk.

72

Table of Contents   

In November 2003 and June 2005, the Company reached
the conclusion that it needed to restate its previously issued
financial statements for certain accounting errors. The Company
believes that all required adjustments have been recorded;
however, the proximity of these restatements could result in the
erosion of investor confidence in the Company s reported
financial results and disclosures, which in turn, could
adversely affect the value of the Company s common stock
and Preferred Stock.

Our internal controls over financial reporting are
    inadequate  

Our internal controls over financial reporting are inadequate.
The significant deficiencies in our internal financial reporting
controls could lead to inaccurate or incomplete financial
statements and public disclosures. Among other problems, the
deficiencies in our internal controls could increase the risk
that a transaction will not be accounted for in accordance with
U.S. GAAP.

We have taken steps to ensure that the consolidated financial
statements contained in this report are accurate in all material
respects, and we have taken specified remedial actions to ensure
that future consolidated financial statements will be accurate
in all material respects. Although we believe that these efforts
have strengthened our internal controls, we are continuing to
work to improve our internal controls. However, our internal
controls over financial reporting remain inadequate and our
senior management team can not provide assurances that the
internal controls and procedures currently in existence will
prevent future accounting errors, incomplete or inaccurate
financial reporting and disclosure. An internal control system
can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
objectives of the internal control system are met. For more
information regarding the process put into place to determine
the accuracy of the consolidated financial statements included
in this report, readers should carefully review the information
set forth under the caption   Item 9A. Controls and
Procedures   Remediation of Material
Weaknesses.  

The Company now operates solely in the country of Georgia,
    which presents a general risk profile that may be materially
    different from that ordinarily expected by
    U.S. investors.  

Subsequent to the sale of PeterStar, the Company operates solely
in the country of Georgia. As such, the Company s remaining
business ventures operate in a foreign jurisdiction where
business practices and civil conventions are quite different
from those common in the United States. This condition creates
certain specific risks for investors in this Company s
securities that may go beyond ordinary business risks connected
with investment in companies with only U.S. based operations;
including, in particular, those connected with the following:

Immature State of Georgian Regulatory Regime.  The present
    Georgian telecommunications regulatory regime is at an early
    state of development and is relatively unsophisticated and
    non-transparent as compared to those of other developed markets.
    The Company cannot assure you that its Georgian operations will
    enjoy transparent and uniformly applied regulatory protections
    afforded telecommunications operators in other world
    jurisdictions. The Company also cannot assure you that its
    Georgian operations will not be adversely affected by omissions,
    inconsistent application, faulty construction or other
    deficiencies in Georgian regulation. There is a material risk
    that such adverse effects could arise from time to time as
    Georgia s regulatory regime further evolves. 

Evolving Georgian Telecommunications Legislative Process .
    The Georgian parliament continues developing legislation for the
    telecommunications sector. A new basic telecommunications law
    was passed before year-end 2005, with further refinements and
    extensions expected during 2006 and beyond. Telecommunications
    legislation will likely continue to evolve in significant ways
    and the Company has little practical means to predict the
    specific character of the eventual legislative landscape or its
    specific effect on Company operations in Georgia. 

Laws passed during 2005 place limits on interconnection tariffs,
    set terms for license issuance or renewal, and enforce
    provisions for fair market access. These new conditions are
    somewhat less economically favorable to the Company s
    Georgian operations than those historically in effect. If 

73

Table of Contents   

potentially adverse economic effects of this and future
    legislation are not ultimately compensated for by other market
    development or competitive factors, the general profitability of
    the Company s Georgian operations could fall below
    historical levels as a result. 

As required under the pre-existing Georgian telecommunications
    law, the Company s business ventures continue to be
    negatively impacted by the regulators  insistence on
    encouraging  new market entrant  competition by means
    of policy that has adverse consequences to the Company s
    business ventures. For example, Magticom and Telecom Georgia are
    obligated to continue to provide telecommunication services to
    local new market entrants irrespective of the new market
    entrants  ability to pay for services. 

Limitations in the Georgian Licensing Regime.  The
    Company s Georgian business ventures operate under licenses
    that are generally issued for limited periods. Failure to obtain
    renewals of these licenses would have a material adverse effect
    on these businesses. For most of the licenses held or used by
    the Company s business ventures, no statutory or regulatory
    presumption for renewal presently exists for the current license
    holder and the Company cannot assure that these licenses will be
    renewed upon the expiration of their current terms. Present
    policies for issuance of new radio frequency spectrum licenses
    in Georgia are vague, incomplete, inconsistent and not fully
    transparent. The Company thus has no consistent basis under the
    present licensing regime for predicting or effectively
    controlling its own future spectrum licensing costs and no
    assurances that its competitors  costs and terms of license
    acquisition will be comparable to those it encounters itself.
    These conditions could unfairly convey advantage to
    Magticom s competitors and could result in large
    unanticipated outlays to maintain or acquire sufficient license
    spectrum for Magticom s continuing operations or
    development. 

Taxation Irregularities in Georgia.  Local taxes paid by
    the Company s Georgian business ventures are substantial
    and the Company may not be able to obtain conventional
    offsetting benefits of tax treaties due to: 

The documentary and other requirements imposed by the government
    authorities; 

The absence of applicable tax treaties between the U.S. and
    Georgia; 

The unfamiliarity of those administering the tax system with the
    international tax treaty system of Georgia, or their
    unwillingness to recognize the treaty system that Georgia has in
    place with certain countries. Countries which the Company has
    chosen for domiciliary purposes for the holding companies that
    the Company has formed to retain its investment interest in
    certain of its business ventures. 

The taxation system in Georgia is at an early stage of
    development and is subject to varying interpretations, frequent
    changes and inconsistent and arbitrary enforcement at the state
    and local levels. In some instances, new taxes and tax
    regulations have been given retroactive effect. In the face of
    urgent need for additional sources of budgetary finance,
    Georgian tax authorities are often arbitrary and aggressive in
    their interpretation of tax laws, as well as in their
    enforcement and collection activities. Companies operating in
    Georgia have been forced to negotiate their tax bills with tax
    inspectors who demand higher taxes than applicable law appears
    to provide. Any additional tax liability resulting from these
    conditions, as well as any unforeseen changes in the tax law,
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    future results of operations or cash flows in a particular
    period. Furthermore, the Company s overall tax burden may
    become greater than the amount estimated and expensed to date. 

Absence of an Effective Georgian Commercial Code. 
    Commercial and corporate laws in Georgia are less developed or
    clear than comparable laws in the United States and the
    countries of Western Europe. These laws remain subject to
    frequent changes, preemption and reinterpretation by local or
    administrative regulations, and by administrative officials.
    There may also be inconsistencies among laws, presidential
    decrees and governmental and ministerial orders and resolutions,
    and conflicts between local, regional and national laws and
    regulations. Laws may be imposed with retroactive force and
    punitive penalties. Laws may go un-enforced or be un-
    enforceable in practical terms. There is also 

74

Table of Contents   

significant uncertainty as to the extent to which local parties
    and entities, particularly government authorities, will respect
    the Company s contractual and other rights. The Company
    cannot assure that the uncertainties associated with these
    conditions will not have a material adverse effect on its
    ability to conduct its business in Georgia. 

Limited Protection of Shareholder Rights in Georgia. 
    Shareholders have limited practical rights and protections under
    present Georgia law and practice. The concept of fiduciary
    duties on the part of local management or directors of business
    ventures is not well developed. In some cases, the local
    officers of a business venture may take actions without regard
    to or in contravention of the directions of the shareholders or
    the board of directors appointed by the shareholders. In other
    cases, a shareholder s ownership interest may be diluted or
    otherwise adversely affected without its knowledge or approval.
    Obtaining customary legal redress for any these actions in the
    court systems of Georgia may prove to be unusually cumbersome or
    time consuming. Although no threat presently exists to the
    Company s shareholding interests in Magticom and Telecom
    Georgia (see, however  Item 1.  Business  
    Description of the Business   Cable TV  
    Ayety TV (Tbilisi, Georgia)   Ownership Structure and
    Control of the Business ) , the Company cannot assure
    that its interest in future business undertakings in Georgia
    will not be adversely affected by these limitations on
    shareholder rights. 

Limitations on Georgian Judicial Protections.  The
    Georgian judicial system is presently in a state of considerable
    uncertainty following the November 2003  Rose
    Revolution  in Georgia. Judicial and executive authority is
    not fully or transparently separated; and prosecutorial
    authority is very substantial. Competently prepared personnel
    are not available in sufficient numbers to meet judicial
    staffing requirements; and competent independent legal counsel
    is difficult to obtain. In consequence, the Company cannot
    assure you that legal actions initiated by or affecting the
    Company s Georgian operations can or will be handled in a
    fashion that might be expected in the United States or other
    world jurisdictions, or that the outcomes of such actions will
    be transparently reached or meet the impartiality standards
    expected in such other jurisdictions. The Company also cannot
    assure you that Georgian courts will agree to hear or act
    speedily on actions which its Georgian operations might
    routinely pursue in other world jurisdictions, or that judgments
    reached in other jurisdictions affecting those operations will
    be accepted or enforced by the Georgian courts. There is a
    material risk that these conditions could from time to time
    adversely affect the commercial practices, business prospects or
    economic performance of the Company s Georgian operations. 

Unusually High Degree of Dependence on Interpersonal
    Relationships in Georgia . The absence of a well-developed
    rule of law and commercial code in Georgia requires that a
    substantial portion of the Company s activities in Georgia
    must rely upon the strength of direct personal relationships
    with Georgian counterparties. The Company also has a significant
    minority Georgian partner in its Magticom business venture
    holding company, with whom continuing favorable personal
    relations are important. These conditions place an emphasis on
    the Company s ability to create and sustain personal
    relationships that extend beyond the level common in the United
    States. If key Company personnel are unable to form suitable
    relationships with business, trade or governmental
    counterparties in Georgia; or if such key personnel leave or are
    no longer employed by the Company, there is material risk that
    ordinary contractual and civil compacts will be insufficient to
    protect and preserve the Company s business and financial
    interests in Georgia. While the Company presently enjoys
    satisfactory relationships with its principal Georgian business,
    trade and governmental partners, the Company can offer no
    assurance that such relationships can be indefinitely preserved
    or that the key employees on whom such relationships are founded
    will remain indefinitely with the Company. The failure of a
    critical relationship for any reason could result in material
    erosion in performance or value of the Company s Georgian
    business operations. 

75

Table of Contents   

In addition to the aforementioned specific risk factors,
operation in Georgia presents general risk of political, social
and economic occurrences that are not typically connected with
operations in the United States, including:

Possible military conflicts internally or within the immediately
    surrounding region; 

Civil unrest or revolution fueled by economic or social crises; 

Political tensions between national and local governments
    resulting in the enactment of conflicting legislation at various
    levels; 

Bureaucratic infighting between government agencies with unclear
    and overlapping jurisdictions; 

High unemployment, high inflation, high foreign debt, weak
    currencies and the possibility of widespread bankruptcies; 

General instability in government or violent change of
    governmental authority; 

Disruption in flow of substantial financial assistance it
    receives from foreign governments and international
    organizations that is material to local economic development; 

Failures by or inability of government entities to meet
    outstanding foreign debt repayment obligations; and 

Increased support for a renewal of centralized authority and
    increased nationalism resulting in possible restrictions on
    foreign partnerships and alliances, foreign ownership and/or
    discrimination against foreign owned businesses. 

The Company cannot, in general, assure that the pursuit of
economic, social and political reforms by the government of
Georgia will continue or ultimately prove to be effective,
especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or
political disruption or other circumstances affecting economic,
political or social conditions.

The Company and its personnel face unusual economic and legal
    risks by operating abroad.  

The Company is exposed to a number of risks by investing outside
the United States, including:

Potential loss of revenue, property or equipment from
    expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, terrorism and
    other politically motivated acts; 

Arbitrary increases in taxes and governmental royalties or
    involuntary changes to licenses and contracts; 

Changes in foreign and domestic laws and policies that govern
    operations of overseas-based companies; 

Amendments to, or different interpretations or implementations
    of, foreign tax laws and regulations that could adversely affect
    the after tax profitability of the Company s business
    ventures; 

Unavailability of reliable economic or other data published by
    local government; 

Unfettered action by criminal organizations that could threaten
    and intimidate the Company s businesses or personnel; and 

Potentially high levels of corruption and general non-compliance
    with law. 

We depend on key personnel including our senior management
who are important to the success of our business. 

Our success depends to a significant extent on the services of
members of our senior management team and other key employees.
The loss of one or more of these individuals or other key
personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations, liquidity and financial position.
Historically, we have promoted employees from within our
organization to fill senior operations and management positions.
We depend upon our ability to retain and promote existing
personnel to senior management, and we must

76

Table of Contents   

attract and retain new personnel with the skills and expertise
to manage our business, both in the U.S. and abroad. The loss of
the services of any of our senior management team or other key
employees or failure to attract, integrate, train, retain and
motivate additional key employees could adversely affect our
business, results of operations, financial condition and
prospects.

Fluctuation in the Georgian currency exchange rate could
adversely affect the Company s results of operations. 

The value of the currency in Georgia ( Georgian Lari )
fluctuates, sometimes significantly, with respect to the U.S.
Dollar. The Company repatriates cash distributions from its
Georgian operations in U.S. Dollars converted from Georgian
Lari, rendering such distributions subject to exchange rate
fluctuations. The Company currently does not hedge against
exchange rate fluctuation and therefore could be adversely
affected by declines in exchange rates between the time Georgian
business ventures receive funds in local currency and the time
such funds are distributed in U.S. Dollars to the Company. The
Georgian Lari is generally non-convertible outside Georgia, so
the ability of the Company to protect itself against devaluation
by converting to other currencies is significantly limited. To
somewhat mitigate this potential risk, Magticom established, in
2005, a U.S. Dollar denominated account in the U.S. for the
maintenance of its excess operating cash.

The Company may face limitations or additional costs in
    securing funds for further business development.  

During the past several years, the Company has relied upon cash
receipts from the sale of its interest in several of its
business ventures and, to a lesser extent, the repatriation of
cash from business ventures; resulting from dividend
distributions or the repayment of outstanding loans, for the
Company to meet its outstanding financial obligations. In
addition, during 2005, the Company relied upon a loan from its
Georgian partner in its Magticom business venture holding
company to enable the Company to meet its business development
initiatives. Since the Company has monetized all of its non-core
business ventures, any funding for continuing business
developments must now be secured from more conventional sources.

The outstanding Preferred Stock is trading at a substantial
discount to its per share liquidation value. Furthermore, the
liquidation value of the Preferred Stock is accreting since the
Company ceased funding the annual 7.5% dividend requirement
associated with the Preferred Stock. This condition has an
unfavorable effect on the trading value of the Company s
common stock and also limits the Company s ability to
access capital markets for business development funds using its
common stock as currency.

Cash flows of the Company s Georgian business ventures,
although presently sufficient to fully fund internal organic
growth, will provide only limited funds for business development
beyond the level required to meet corporate overheads and other
historical corporate obligations. The Company may thus have to
resort to debt financing of further business development or to
accepting diluted positions in new business ventures in favor of
obtaining third party equity investors. These measures could
materially increase the financing costs of further business
development or substantially limit the practical and affordable
rate at which such development occurs.

The Company s earnings per common share attributable to
    common stockholders is negatively impacted by the Company s
    outstanding Preferred Stock  

For the twelve months ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002, the Company s net loss attributable to common
stockholders was negatively impacted by recognition of the
Preferred Stock dividend requirements of $18.8 million,
$17.5 million and $16.3 million, respectively. As long
as the Company s Preferred Stock remains as currently
structured, the Company s net income
(loss) attributable to common stockholders will continue to
be negatively impacted, which could result in an unfavorable
effect on the trading value of the Company s common stock.
At present, the Company cannot provide assurance that a
restructuring of the Preferred Stock will be consummated or, if
consummated, that such effort would produce a material
improvement in common shareholder equity valuation.

77

Table of Contents   

Limited diversity of the Company s present business
    increases general investment risk.  

The Company had formerly owned interests in a large number of
separate business ventures operating in numerous and otherwise
independent markets. With the sale of all non-core businesses,
the Company s remaining business interests are concentrated
in the country of Georgia. This circumstance increases the
Company s dependence on the continuing vitality and
stability of the markets and economy of a single country of
rather limited size and with a somewhat unstable character (see
also   Risk Factors   The Company now operates
solely in the country of Georgia, which presents a general risk
profile that may be materially different from that ordinarily
expected by U.S. investors ).  It also limits the
Company s ability to offset temporary downturns in one
market with business activities in a wider array of markets.
These factors could materially increase the Company s
liquidity risk, since the Company is dependent upon dividend
distributions from its business ventures to satisfy corporate
legal obligations and overhead expenditure requirements.
Furthermore, these factors may also limit investor interest in
the Company s equity securities.

The Company may be unable to effectively exploit the interest
    it has retained in Ayety and the additional interests it has
    acquired and plans to acquire in Telecom Georgia.  

The Company has chosen to retain its interest in Ayety and
expand its interest in Telecom Georgia, despite evident current
difficulties and limited profitability of both of these
businesses. These actions are prompted by the Company s
belief that both businesses present opportunities for profitable
co-development with the Company s Magticom business
venture. The Company also attaches potential value to
diversifying and deepening its involvement in Georgian markets.
However, the Company may be unsuccessful in gaining satisfactory
control over Ayety  (see: Item 1.
 Business   Description of the
Business   Cable TV   Ayety TV (Tbilisi,
Georgia)   Ownership Structure and Control of the
Business ) , which would prevent the Company from
strategically developing this business venture. The Company may
also be unsuccessful in its current efforts to rehabilitate
Telecom Georgia  (see:    Description of the
Business   Fixed Telephony   Telecom Georgia
(Tbilisi, Georgia and the Country of Georgia) )  or such
rehabilitation may require investment beyond the Company s
financial capacities. Either or both outcomes could result in
loss of capital already spent in respect of strategic
development of these businesses.

As previously discussed, the Company is presently unable to
exercise operational oversight over Ayety  (see Item 3.
 Legal Proceedings   Legal Matters with
Mtatsminda   International Telcell SPS vs
Mtatsminda )  and has also been unable to prepare U.S.
GAAP financial statements of Ayety subsequent to June 30,
2004 to include within its consolidated financial statements,
due to:

The Company no longer has access to the statutory accounting
    records of Ayety which is a prerequisite to the completion of
    the U.S. GAAP financial results; and 

The Company no longer has favorable relations with management of
    Ayety, since the Company attempted to terminate the General
    Director of Ayety in late June 2004. Accordingly, even if the
    Company had access to the statutory accounting records of Ayety,
    the Company would not be able to obtain certainty that all
    economic activities of the business had been properly considered
    for U.S. GAAP accounting treatment. 

The Company s inability to manage the day-to-day business
affairs of Ayety could give rise to results of future operations
at Ayety, which do not reflect results that would be achievable
under proper and effective management. The Company believes,
however, that its general financial condition will not be
materially affected by circumstances at Ayety, since the Company
has no legal obligation to fund Ayety and is not dependent upon
the repatriation of cash from Ayety to meet its obligations.

The Company may be materially and adversely affected by
    competition from other communications companies or the emergence
    of competing technologies in its current markets.  

The Georgian telecommunications market is not as competitive as
either the Russian telecommunications market or other CIS
telecommunications markets; however, there exists the
possibility that other well-known and well-financed
communications companies could enter the Georgian market with
operating

78

Table of Contents   

infrastructures, management capacities and other resources
comparable to or exceeding that of the Company or the
Company s Georgian business ventures.

Although Magticom enjoys a market leadership position in
Georgia, no assurance can be given that this situation can or
will be preserved indefinitely. Current brand recognition and
positioning as the market leader allows Magticom to sustain
compensatory pricing levels and limits certain service delivery
expense. These conditions may be threatened if Magticom were
displaced as market leader by competitors.

Recent and proposed Georgian government tenders of radio
frequency spectrum open opportunity for the entry of a new
mobile telephony operator and suggest that the competitive
landscape in Georgia might be subject to change in the future.

The effect of broadened competition could erode prices below
compensatory levels and require larger than projected
expenditures on promotion and service operations. Furthermore,
the value of the Company s common stock and Preferred Stock
could be adversely affected should Magticom lose its market
leadership role since the Company could not command a premium
should the Company seek to monetize its economic interest in
Magticom.

The Company s dependence on local operators,
    interconnect parties or local customers may materially and
    adversely affect its operations.  

Magticom and Telecom Georgia are dependent on access to networks
of local operators or inter-connect parties for a significant
portion of their telephony operations. There is no assurance
that Magticom or Telecom Georgia will continue to have access to
these operators  networks or that such access will be on
favorable terms. The loss of access to these networks or
substantial increases in tariffs would have a material adverse
effect on performance of Magticom and Telecom Georgia, the
effect of which could be to materially reduce operating cash
flows. Magticom and Telecom Georgia are also dependent on the
non-network facilities of local operators or inter-connect
parties for certain of their operations; including, for example,
rights to use buildings, ducts or tunnels. The loss of the right
to use such facilities could have a material adverse effect on
operations.

The Company s equipment may not be approved by the
    authorities regulating the markets in which it operates, which
    could have a material adverse effect on its operations in these
    markets.  

Operations at both Magticom and Telecom Georgia are, from time
to time, dependent upon their receiving approval by regulatory
authorities as to the type of equipment that they can utilize to
carryout their respective operations. The Georgian regulatory
authorities may not approve the equipment that the Company may
plan for use in these markets for either Magticom or Telecom
Georgia. The failure to obtain timely approval could have a
material adverse effect on future operations of Magticom and
Telecom Georgia.

The Company may not be able to keep pace with the emergence
    of new technologies and changes in market conditions that might
    materially and adversely affect its results of operations.  

The communications industry has been characterized in recent
years by rapid and significant technological changes and changes
in market conditions. Competitors could introduce new or
enhanced technologies with features that could render the
technology installed by the Company s business ventures
obsolete or significantly less marketable. The ability of
Magticom and Telecom Georgia to compete successfully will depend
to a large extent on their ability to respond quickly and adapt
to technological changes and advances in its industry and
markets. There can be no assurance that either Magticom or
Telecom Georgia will be able to keep pace, or will have the
financial resources to keep pace, with the technological demands
of the marketplace.

The Company could incur environmental liabilities as a result
    of its past divestitures, the costs of which could materially
    affect its results of operations.  

The Company has been in operation since 1929 through its
predecessors and, over the years, has carried out, directly and
through wholly-owned subsidiaries, business operations in
diverse industries within the

79

Table of Contents   

United States including equipment, sporting goods, furniture
manufacturing, sheet metal processing, and trucking. The Company
has divested all of its former U.S. operations. However, in
the course of these divestitures, it has retained, by means of
seller indemnification obligations or as a matter of law,
actionable environmental legal obligations. In one case, the
Company has undertaken specific clean up activities at a
contaminated parcel. The Company could incur additional cleanup
obligations with respect to presently undetected environmental
problems at other locations. Furthermore, its obligation to
remediate such environmental problems could arise as a result of
changes in legal requirements since the original divestitures.
Even though these divestitures may have occurred many years ago,
the Company cannot assure that environmental matters will not
arise in the future that could have a material adverse effect on
its results of operations or financial condition.

Legal proceedings could adversely affect the Company s
    financial condition.  

The Company and its business ventures are involved in several
legal and regulatory matters that could adversely affect the
Company s financial condition.  (see Item 3.
 Legal Proceedings .) 

The Company has had discussions with the United States
Department of Justice and SEC regarding the fact that certain
former personnel engaged in conduct that may have violated
foreign and United States laws, including the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the  FCPA ). This
conduct, which involved certain of the Company s business
ventures in the Commonwealth of Independent States, was the
subject of an investigation by special outside counsel. The last
time that the Company engaged, whether directly or indirectly
through its legal counsel, in discussions with the United States
Department of Justice and SEC regarding the matters referred to
above was in the first quarter of 2003.

The Company had concluded, and currently believes, that the
transactions, which were entered into prior to 1999, were not
material to the Company s historical results of operations
or financial condition. As a result, management believes that
the Company s past financial results does not require
restatement. The Company cannot predict with any certainty
whether, as a result of its disclosures, that the Department of
Justice or the SEC will commence formal civil or criminal
investigations. The Company is not currently in a position to
predict the outcome of any such proceedings, or the extent to
which they could adversely affect the Company s financial
condition and results of operations.

A shareholder filed a complaint in the Delaware Chancery Court
requesting an order of the Court pursuant to Section 211 of
the Delaware General Corporation Law directing the Company to
call and hold an annual meeting of its stockholders. By a
Stipulation and Order, dated September 26, 2006, the
Company agreed to hold an annual stockholders  meeting on
December 15, 2006. In connection with the proposed sale of
substantially all of the Company assets, this shareholder and
another shareholder filed complaints in the Delaware Court of
Chancery, Civil Action
No.  2487-N, 
against the Company, its directors and officers seeking to
enjoin the Company, its officers and directors from entering
into an agreement to sell all or substantially all of the
Company s assets before the court-ordered December 15,
2006 annual stockholders  meeting, as well as seeking to
enjoin the Company, its directors and officers from filing a
bankruptcy petition before the court ordered December 15,
2006 annual stockholders  meeting, and seeking to compel
the Company, its directors and officers to comply with 8  Del.
C.  271, requiring a stockholder approval for the sale of all
or substantially all assets, before attempting enter into the
asset sale transaction. On October 26, 2006, the Court
consolidated Civil Action
No.  2484-N  into
2487-N, now Consolidated Civil Action
No.  2487-N. 

Following a November 22, 2006, preliminary injunction
hearing, the Court issued an order (the  Order ),
dated November 29, 2006, pursuant to which it was ordered,
among other things, that (i) the Company and its
representatives, and those persons in active concert or
participation with them, not enter into an agreement for the
sale of all or substantially all of its assets, unless
consummation of such an agreement is subject to a vote of the
common stockholders of the Company pursuant to 8 Del.
C. 271, and (ii) in the event the Company enters into
such an agreement, the Company shall call a meeting of its
common stockholders and at such meeting the common stockholders
shall have the opportunity to vote on the proposed asset sale.

80

Table of Contents   

The Company is not currently in a position to predict the
outcome of any such proceedings, or the extent to which they
could adversely affect the Company s financial condition
and results of operations  (see Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings ). 

A complaint was filed against the Company in the Delaware
Chancery Court of the State of Delaware. The plaintiff is
seeking to enforce his rights as a stockholder of the Company to
inspect and copy certain books and records of the Company. The
Company believes that the request made by the plaintiff is
overly broad and lacks a proper purpose; however, the Company
has been attempting to resolve this matter over the past two
years by responding to the inquires that have been made by the
plaintiff. The Company has also been preparing to defend its
position in court. No trial has been scheduled in this case. The
Company cannot predict the outcome of any such proceedings, or
the extent to which they could adversely affect the
Company s financial condition and results of operations
 (see Item 3.  Legal Proceedings   Matthew
McLaughlin v. Metromedia ). 

In addition, a stockholder of the Company has threatened to
commence derivative actions against some of the current and
former officers and directors of the Company. The Company is
obligated under its Certificate of Incorporation to indemnify
such current and former officers and directors to the extent not
prohibited by law.  (see Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings. ) 

The future costs of defense or settlement of any of these or any
other legal or regulatory proceedings could be material, and
could adversely affect the future cash flows of the Company.

Item 1B.       
     
      Unresolved Staff Comments   

None.

Item 2.  
     
      Properties   

The Company leases approximately 10,000 square feet of
office space for its headquarters building in Charlotte, North
Carolina. As of December 31, 2004, the Company also leased
space in Moscow Russia for its representative office, which was
used primarily by the Company s Chief Executive Officer,
until his relocation to Tbilisi in 2005.

As of December 31, 2004, PeterStar leased space in
St. Petersburg Russia for its headquarters. The properties
for switches are leased under short-term, renewable leases
throughout northwestern Russia by PeterStar and its
subsidiaries. On August 1, 2005, the Company disposed of
its interest in PeterStar.

Magticom owns the space used for its headquarters in Tbilisi.
The properties for mobile telephone switching offices and
cellular sites are leased under short-term, renewable leases
throughout Georgia by Magticom.

The Company considers the properties owned or leased by it and
its business ventures to be suitable and adequate for their
respective business operations.

Item 3.  
     
      Legal Proceedings   

Fuqua Industries, Inc. Shareholder Litigation 

Plaintiff Virginia Abrams filed a purported class and derivative
action in the Delaware Court of Chancery,  In re Fuqua
Industries, Inc. Shareholder Litigation , Del. Ch.,
Consolidated C.A. No. 11974, on February 22, 1991,
against Fuqua Industries, Inc. (a predecessor company to
 The Actava Group  and  Metromedia International
Group, Inc. ), Intermark, Inc., the then-current directors
of Fuqua Industries and certain past members of the board of
directors. The action challenged certain transactions that were
alleged to be part of a plan to change control of the board of
Fuqua Industries from Fuqua to Intermark and sought money
damages, an accounting, declaratory relief and an injunction
prohibiting any business combination between Fuqua Industries
and Intermark in the absence of approval by a majority of Fuqua
Industries  disinterested stockholders. Subsequently, two
similar actions, styled  Behrens v. Fuqua Industries,
Inc. et al. , Del. Ch., C.A. No. 11988 and
 Freberg v. Fuqua Industries, Inc. et al. , Del.
Ch., C.A. No. 11989 were filed. On

81

Table of Contents   

May 1, 1991, all of the foregoing actions were
consolidated. On October 7, 1991, all defendants moved to
dismiss the complaint. Plaintiffs thereafter took three
depositions during the next three years.

On December 28, 1995, plaintiffs filed a consolidated
second amended derivative and class action complaint, purporting
to assert additional facts in support of their claim regarding
an alleged plan, but deleting their prior request for injunctive
relief. On January 31, 1996, all defendants moved to
dismiss the second amended complaint. On May 13, 1997, the
Court dismissed all of plaintiffs  class claims and
dismissed all of plaintiffs  derivative claims except for
the claims that Fuqua Industries board members (i) entered
into an agreement pursuant to which Triton Group, Inc. (which
was subsequently merged into Intermark) was exempted from 8 Del.
C. 203 and (ii) undertook a program pursuant to which
4.9 million shares of Fuqua Industries common stock were
repurchased, both allegedly in furtherance of an entrenchment
plan. On January 16, 1998, the Court entered an order
implementing the May 13, 1997 decision. The order also
dismissed one of the defendants from the case with prejudice and
dismissed three other defendants without waiver of any rights
plaintiffs might have to reassert the claims if the opinion were
to be vacated or reversed on appeal.

On February 5, 1998, plaintiffs filed a consolidated third
amended derivative complaint and named as defendants
Messrs. Fuqua, Klamon, Sanders, Scott, Warner and Zellars.
The complaint alleged that defendants (i) entered into an
agreement pursuant to which Triton was exempted from 8 Del. C.
203 and (ii) undertook a program pursuant to which
4.9 million shares of Fuqua Industries common stock were
repurchased, both allegedly in furtherance of an entrenchment
plan. For their relief, plaintiffs sought damages and an
accounting of profits improperly obtained by defendants.

In March 1998, defendants Fuqua, Klamon, Sanders, Zellars, Scott
and Warner filed their answers denying each of the substantive
allegations of wrongdoing contained in the third amended
complaint. The Company also filed its answer, submitting itself
to the jurisdiction of the Court for a proper resolution of the
claims purported to be set forth by the plaintiffs.

On March 1, 2004, after completion of document production
and submission by plaintiffs of a pre-trial order to the
defendants, the defendants filed a motion for summary judgment
seeking to dispose of the case in its entirety. The plaintiffs
filed a motion seeking leave to further amend their complaint,
which was granted on December 14, 2004.

On May 6, 2005, the Court rendered an opinion granting in
part and denying in part the defendants  motions for
summary judgment. The Court held that because defendants Scott
and Warner did not owe any fiduciary duties to the Company and
its stockholders at the time that defendant Fuqua sold his
shares of the Company s stock to Triton Group, they were
entitled to summary judgment on any claim of breach of fiduciary
duty associated with that stock sale. The Court also granted
defendants  summary judgment motions on two aspects of
plaintiffs  claims. First, the Court granted summary
judgment with respect to plaintiffs  claim that they should
be entitled to recover damages based upon the lost time value of
the $110 million that the Company spent on its program to
repurchase stock. In addition, the Court granted summary
judgment in favor of defendants on plaintiffs  then
currently articulated compensatory damages theory, which was
premised on the claim that defendants had kept their alleged
entrenchment plan a secret from the market, thereby allegedly
inflating the price of the Company s stock. Although the
Court held that plaintiffs would not be entitled to assert that
particular compensatory damages claim at trial, the Chancellor
found that  plaintiffs remain free to seek damages arising
from the defendants  alleged breach of fiduciary duty 
and that they could continue to rely upon the report of their
damages expert at trial. The Court denied all of the remaining
summary judgment motions and directed the parties to submit a
form of order to implement the decision.

A trial on the remaining claims was scheduled for
January 9, 2006. However, in late December 2005, the
individual defendants and the plaintiffs entered into settlement
negotiations and reached an agreement to settle this action (the
 Settlement ). In the proposed Settlement, each of the
defendants agreed to deposit his share of the aggregate
settlement amount of $7 million in an escrow account
maintained for the benefit of the Company in full and complete
release of all the claims in this action. The parties made a
joint application to the Court seeking an approval of the
Settlement. In accordance with a Scheduling Order issued by the
Court, the Company mailed to its shareholders of record as of
January 6, 2006, a Notice of Pendency informing them

82

Table of Contents   

of the proposed Settlement. At the March 6, 2006 Settlement
Hearing, the Settlement was approved by the Court, all claims
against the defendants were released and the case was dismissed
with prejudice. Of the $7.0 million in escrowed funds, the
Company received approximately $4.6 million, and the
remaining approximately $2.4 million was paid to
plaintiff s legal counsel to cover legal fees and expenses.
The time for any appeal of the dismissal ran without any appeal
having been filed.

The Company was not a defendant in this derivative case.
However, the Company is obligated under its Certificate of
Incorporation to indemnify the defendants, who were former
directors of the Company, for costs incurred by them in
connection with this litigation. The Company s directors
and officers liability insurance carrier for this litigation was
Reliance Insurance Company. On May 29, 2001, Reliance
consented to the entry of an Order of Rehabilitation by the
Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania. On October 3, 2001, the
court ordered Reliance Insurance Company into liquidation. The
current status of Reliance Insurance Company raises doubts
concerning Reliance s ability to reimburse the Company for
the litigation expenses incurred by the Company in connection
with this litigation.

Matthew McLaughlin v. Metromedia 

On January 8, 2004, Mr. Matthew McLaughlin filed a
complaint in the Delaware Court of Chancery, Civil Action No.
 156-N,  seeking to
enforce his rights as a stockholder of the Company to inspect
and copy certain books and records of the Company. The Company
believes that the request made by the plaintiff is overly broad
and lacks proper purpose and is preparing to defend its position
in court. However, in order to minimize costs of a potential
trial, the Company has entered into discussions with the
plaintiff regarding the nature of information sought by him and
provided certain requested documents. In addition, several
senior members of management and outside counsel for the Company
met with Mr. McLaughlin and his representatives in an
attempt to resolve the matter. Discovery is currently in
process. On August 28, 2006, Mr. McLaughlin deposed
Mr. Matthew Mosner, former General Counsel of the Company.
Mr. McLaughlin also requested to depose the Company s
record custodian and this deposition is currently scheduled to
occur on December 14, 2006. No trial has been scheduled in
this case. The Company cannot predict the outcome of any such
proceedings, or the extent to which they could adversely affect
the Company s financial condition and results of operations.

On January 28, 2005 and February 16, 2005, the Company
received additional correspondence from
Mr. McLaughlin s legal counsel requesting that the
Company take legal action against certain of its present and
former directors and officers ( Proposed Individual
Defendants ) for alleged improprieties with respect to the
management and operation of the Company. In the January 28,
2005 letter, Mr. McLaughlin s counsel informed the
Company that in the event it failed to respond by March 28,
2005, Mr. McLaughlin would take actions against the
Company, possibly including commencing litigation to obtain
damages from the Proposed Individual Defendants. On
March 18, 2005, the Company s Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer met with Mr. McLaughlin, along
with legal counsel representing both parties, to discuss matters
raised in Mr. McLaughlin s letters. At that meeting,
the Company also provided to Mr. McLaughlin additional
information and documents sought by him in his requests for
books and records of the Company.

On September 22, 2005, the Company received additional
correspondence from Mr. McLaughlin s legal counsel
stating that Mr. McLaughlin is renewing his demand made in
previous letters to the Company that the Company take legal
action against the Proposed Individual Defendants. Mr.
McLaughlin s counsel further informed the Company that in
the event it failed to respond by November 15, 2005,
Mr. McLaughlin would take actions he deems appropriate,
which may include commencing litigation to obtain damages from
the Proposed Individual Defendants. The Company has referred
this matter to outside legal counsel. In subsequent
correspondence between the Company s and Mr.
McLaughlin s legal counsel, the November 15, 2005
deadline was extended to February 1, 2006, subject to the
Company providing certain additional information to Mr.
McLaughlin. On February 7, 2006, the Company requested a
further extension of time to respond to the September 2005
letter. On October 16, 2006, Mr. McLaughlin sent
another letter to the Company expressing his disagreement with
the proposed asset sale and related bankruptcy filing. On
October 26, 2006, outside counsel for the Company sent
Mr. McLaughlin s counsel a short letter denying the
substance of Mr. McLaughlin s letter. The Company
cannot predict the outcome of matters pending with

83

Table of Contents   

Mr. McLaughlin, or the extent to which they could adversely
affect the Company s financial condition and results of
operations.

Legal matters with Esopus Creek Capital LLC 

Demand for Books and Records 

On January 17, 2005, the Company received a letter dated
January 14, 2005, purportedly on behalf of Esopus Creek
Capital LLC ( Esopus ) demanding the right to examine,
inspect and copy certain books and records of the Company (the
 Demand ). By letter dated January 24, 2005, the
Company rejected the request as premature and because the Demand
failed to comply with the requirements of Delaware Law. To the
knowledge of the Company, no litigation has been commenced in
this matter.

Demand for Shareholders Meeting 

On January 14, 2005, Esopus filed a complaint in the
Delaware Court of Chancery, Civil Action No. 1006-N,
requesting an order summarily requiring that the Company hold an
annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors.
Subsequently, the Company announced that it would hold an annual
meeting allowing for the election of directors simultaneously
with a meeting called to seek a stockholder vote to approve the
PeterStar Sale transaction. The Company later announced that it
plans to hold a meeting of stockholders shortly following such
time that the Company becomes current with its periodic filings
with the SEC. On March 29, 2005, Esopus filed a stipulation
requesting that this case be dismissed. The dismissal was
granted by the Delaware Court of Chancery on April 13, 2005.

On August 18, 2006, Esopus filed a complaint in the
Delaware Court of Chancery, Civil Action
No.  2358-N, 
requesting an order of the Court pursuant to Section 211 of
the Delaware General Corporation Law directing the Company to
call and hold an annual meeting of its stockholders. By a
Stipulation and Order, dated September 26, 2006, the
Company agreed to hold an annual stockholders  meeting on
December 15, 2006. In connection with this Stipulation, the
Company paid certain of plaintiffs  fees and expenses in
the amount of $15,000. The case was dismissed with prejudice on
September 26, 2006.

Legal actions in connection with the proposed
asset sale  

On October 18, 2006, Esopus Creek Value LP, an affiliate of
Esopus, filed a complaint in the Delaware Court of Chancery,
Civil Action
No.  2484-N, 
against the Company seeking to enjoin the Company, its directors
and officers from entering into an agreement to sell all or
substantially all of the Company s assets before the
court-ordered December 15, 2006 annual stockholders 
meeting, as well as seeking to enjoin the Company, its directors
and officers from filing a bankruptcy petition before the
court-ordered December 15, 2006 annual stockholders 
meeting, and seeking to compel the Company to hold the annual
stockholders  meeting on December 15, 2006.

On October 19, 2006, plaintiffs Esopus, Black Horse
Capital, LP, Black Horse Capital (QP) LP, and Black Horse
Capital Offshore Ltd. (collectively,  Black Horse )
filed a complaint in the Delaware Court of Chancery, Civil
Action No.  2487-N, 
against the Company, its directors and officers seeking to
enjoin the Company, its officers and directors from entering
into an agreement to sell all or substantially all of the
Company s assets, including the Company s subsidiary
Metromedia International Telecommunications, Inc. and/or the
Company s direct or indirect interest in Magticom (the
 Asset Sale Agreement ) before the court-ordered
December 15, 2006 annual stockholders  meeting, as
well as seeking to enjoin the Company, its directors and
officers from filing a bankruptcy petition before the
court-ordered December 15, 2006 annual stockholders 
meeting, and seeking to compel the Company, its directors and
officers to comply with 8  Del. C.  271, requiring
stockholder approval for the sale of all or substantially all
assets, before attempting enter into the asset sale transaction.
On October 26, 2006, the Court consolidated Civil Action
No.  2484-N  into
2487-N, now Consolidated Civil Action
No.  2487-N. 

84

Table of Contents   

On October 24, 2006, the Company indicated in a letter to
the Court that it wished to resolve the plaintiffs  claims
as quickly as possible. The Court agreed to hold a preliminary
injunction hearing on November 22, 2006. The parties
conducted expedited discovery and briefing in advance of the
preliminary injunction hearing, which was held in the Court on
November 22, 2006.

Following oral arguments by the plaintiffs and the defendants at
the hearing, the Court issued an order (the  Order ),
dated November 29, 2006, pursuant to which it was ordered,
among other things, that (i) the Company and its
representatives, and those persons in active concert or
participation with them, not enter into an Asset Sale Agreement,
unless consummation of such Asset Sale Agreement is subject to a
vote of the common stockholders of the Company pursuant to 8
Del. C.  271, and (ii) in the event the Company enters
into an Asset Sale Agreement, the Company and its Board of
Directors shall call a meeting of the common stockholders of the
Company, consistent with the notice provision of 8 Del. C.
 271, the Company shall distribute to its stockholders, in
advance of such meeting, a notice advising the Company s
common stockholders of the date, time and place of the meeting
and their right to vote on the proposed sale of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company (the
 Proposed Sale ) and all information required under
Delaware law necessary to ensure an informed vote on the
Proposed Sale and at such meeting the common stockholders shall
have the opportunity to vote on the Proposed Sale. In addition,
the Order provides that the Company and its representatives
shall take whatever steps they deem necessary, including the use
of oral, written or electronic communications, to encourage
stockholders to attend the meeting and cast a vote on the
Proposed Sale.

On December 13, 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion for partial
summary judgment. The motion seeks a ruling on plaintiffs 
claims to invalidate a lock-up and voting agreement entered
between the Company and certain of its preferred stockholders.
Plaintiffs contend that the lock-up and voting agreement is
 ultra vires  in violation of the Company s Revised
Certificate of Incorporation, and the performance of which would
be in violation of the Court s Order on plaintiffs 
motion for a preliminary injunction. A briefing schedule on to
plaintiffs  motion for partial summary judgment has not
been entered.

In relation to these two actions, on October 26, 2006,
Esopus sent the Company a letter demanding a copy of the
Company s list of stockholders and related information
pursuant to Section 220 of the Delaware General Corporation
Law. The stated purpose for demanding the stocklist and related
information is to allow Esopus to conduct a proxy solicitation.
In a letter dated November 3, 2006, the Company agreed to
provide Esopus with a stocklist and most of the other
information requested in the October 26, 2006 letter from
Esopus and such information has been provided.

On October 5 and October 6, 2006, the Company received
two notices from a group of stockholders (including Esopus and
Black Horse) nominating a slate of five individuals for election
as directors of the Company to fill the Class I and
Class II board seats up for election at the
December 15, 2006 annual meeting and proposing two
stockholder proposals. On December 8, 2006, this group of
stockholders publicly disclosed in a Schedule 13D amendment
(later confirmed in writing to the Company by letter dated
December 11, 2006) their decision to withdraw their
nominees and two stockholder proposals for consideration at the
December 15, 2006 annual meeting and that they will not
solicit proxies in connection with such meeting.

Legal Matters with Mtatsminda 

Mtatsminda v. Ayety and International Telcell SPS,
    Inc.   

On June 25, 2004, Mtatsminda Limited, which is a 15%
shareholder in Ayety, a cable TV company in which International
Telcell SPS, Inc. ( International Telcell SPS ), an
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is an 85%
shareholder, filed a claim against Ayety, Mr. Zurab
Chigogidze and International Telcell SPS in the Mtatsminda
District Court in Tbilisi, Georgia for damages in the amount of
GEL 185,000 (approximately $90,000), GEL 23,000
(approximately $13,000) and GEL 258,000
(approximately $130,000), respectively. In its complaint,
Mtatsminda alleges that it suffered damages because Ayety had
used its cash resources to make payments to International
Telcell SPS in repayment of a credit facility

85

Table of Contents   

between Ayety and International Telcell SPS. Mtatsminda claims
that Ayety has not properly authorized the credit facility.
Mtatsminda further alleges that Ayety s funds should have
been used to make dividend payments to Mtatsminda. On
September 15, 2004, International Telcell SPS filed a
counterclaim stating that all of Mtatsminda s claims are
groundless. International Telcell SPS also challenged
Mtatsminda s standing in the case due to expiration of the
statute of limitations, non-payment of court duty and other
procedural matters. The hearing of this case has been postponed
on several occasions due to the failure of Mtatsminda s
representatives to attend the hearing. In order for the case to
proceed to trial or be formally withdrawn, an action by
Mtatsminda, is required but to date, has not occurred.

On October 22, 2004, Mtatsminda filed a complaint in the
Mtatsminda District Court in Tbilisi, Georgia against
International Telcell SPS, Georgia International LLC, and
 Suny-K  LLC
alleging that International Telcell SPS violated U.S. and
Georgian laws in connection with its purchase of additional
shares of Ayety in 2000. The Company believes that it has not
violated U.S. or Georgian laws in connection with this
transaction. The Company is prepared to defend it position in
the Georgian courts, and in the U.S. courts if necessary. A
hearing date in this case has not yet been scheduled.

International Telcell SPS, Inc. v. Mtatsminda.   

On June 28, 2004, the Company was notified by Mtatsminda
that in March 2003, Mtatsminda prepared and filed in the
Georgian courts (which are responsible for company registration
in Georgia) a new Charter of Ayety (the  New
Charter ), which denies International Telcell SPS certain
rights previously afforded to it as an 85% shareholder of Ayety
and allows Mtatsminda to veto certain key decisions regarding
Ayety. The Company believes that the New Charter should not be
recognized as an enforceable legal arrangement since the process
by which the New Charter was prepared and filed in the Georgian
courts was carried out in a manner that was not in compliance
with applicable Georgian law. However, since the New Charter has
already been filed and accepted by the Georgian courts, the New
Charter is valid unless and until successfully challenged. In
December 2004, International Telcell SPS filed a complaint in
the Mtatsminda District Court in Tbilisi, Georgia against
Mtatsminda to have the New Charter declared invalid. A hearing
on the merits of this case was held on April 25, 2006, and
the court ruled in favor of Mtatsminda. The Company has been
advised that the court s ruling was principally due to the
expiration of the statue of limitations associated with the
timing of the Company s filing of its complaint.
International Telcell SPS has appealed this ruling. A hearing
date in the appellate court has not yet been scheduled.

Georgian Matters   

In 2004 and
 early-to -mid 2005,
representatives of Mtatsminda sent several letters to the
Company in which they made certain commercial claims against the
Company and alleged that Company personnel may have violated the
FCPA and possibly engaged in other improper or illegal conduct.
However, Mtatsminda refused to present any concrete evidence in
support of the allegations that they made. The Company has
reviewed the commercial claims made by Mtatsminda and believes
that they are without merit. Allegations regarding possible
violations of the FCPA and certain improper or illegal conduct
were reviewed by outside counsel to the Company and are
substantially similar to the allegations that were previously
investigated by the Board of Directors and outside counsel. As
disclosed in the Company s Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended on December 31, 2003, that investigation did not
uncover any specific factual support for any allegations of
improper or illegal conduct and for this reason the Board of
Directors of the Company has determined not to re-open the
investigation.

86

Table of Contents   

Item 4.  
     
      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.

PART II 

Item 5.  
     
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities   

Due to the delay in the Company s filing of its
Form  10-Q  for the
quarter ended September 30, 2002 with the SEC, AMEX
suspended the Company s common stock from trading from
November 26, 2002 until January 6, 2003. On
February 25, 2003, the Company received notice from the
staff of the Exchange indicating that the Exchange filed an
application with the SEC on February 20, 2003 to strike the
Company s common stock and Preferred Stock from listing and
registration on the Exchange, effective at the opening of the
trading session on March 3, 2003.

From March 3, 2003 through September 23, 2003, the
Company s equity securities were quoted on the
OTC Bulletin Board trading system (the
 OTCBB ). However, on September 24, 2003, the
Company s common stock was removed from quotation from the
OTCBB because the Company was not then in compliance with
NASD Rule 6530. As a result, the Company s common
stock and Preferred Stock were then quoted on the  Pink
Sheets.  On June 18, 2004, the Company filed its first
quarter 2004
Form  10-Q,  and
became compliant with OTCBB trading eligibility requirements. On
August 6, 2004, the Company s common stock
(OTCBB: MTRM.OB) began trading on the OTCBB after a market
maker had successfully filed a petition with the NASD seeking
their permission for the Company s common stock to be
quoted on the OTCBB. The Company s Preferred Stock (OTCPK:
MTRMP) remains quoted on the Pink Sheets.

On April 20, 2005, the OTCBB trading system appended the
Company s common stock trading symbol by adding an
 E  modifier, due to the Company s delinquency in
filing its Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. In addition, at the
close of business on May 23, 2005 the Company s common
stock was removed from quotation on the OTCBB because the
Company was not then in compliance with the NASD Rule 6530,
since the Company failed to file its Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 with the SEC. As a
result, the Company s common stock is now quoted solely on
the Pink Sheets.

The following table sets forth the high and low bid quotations
per common share as reported on the
 over-the -counter market
for the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31,
2004 and December 31, 2003.

Holders of common stock are entitled to such dividends as may be
declared by the Company s Board of Directors and paid out
of funds legally available for the payment of dividends. The
Company has not paid a dividend to its common stockholders since
the dividend declared in the fourth quarter of 1993, and has no
plans to pay cash dividends on the common stock in the
foreseeable future. The decision of the Board of Directors as to
whether or not to pay cash dividends in the future will depend
upon a number of factors, including the Company s future
earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and the
existence or absence of any contractual limitations on the
payment of dividends, including the contractual limitations set
forth in the certificate of designation for the Company s
existing Preferred Stock (the  Certificate of

87

Table of Contents   

Designation ). In addition, the Company s ability to
pay dividends is limited because the Company operates as a
holding company, conducting its operations solely through its
subsidiaries and business ventures (see  Item 7.
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  ).

As of December 31, 2005, there were approximately
6,039 shareholders of record for the Company s common
stock.

The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2004,
information regarding the Company s equity compensation
plans:

Equity Compensation Plan Information    

Number of Securities    

Remaining Available for    

Number of Securities    

Future Issuance Under    

to be Issued Upon    
       
      Weighted-Average    
       
      Equity Compensation    

Exercise of    
       
      Exercise Price of    
       
      Plans (Excluding    

Outstanding Options,    
       
      Outstanding Options,    
       
      Securities Reflected in    

Plan Category  
       
      Warrants and Rights    
       
      Warrants and Rights    
       
      Column (a))    

(a)    
       
      (b)    
       
      (c)    

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1)

987,529 

$ 
     4.54 

4,618,791 

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders(2)

2,000,000 

7.44 

Total

2,987,529 

$ 
     6.48 

4,618,791 

(1)  
     
    The equity compensation plan approved by security holders
    includes the Company s 1996 Incentive Stock Option Plan,
    which was amended and restated effective November 12, 1997
    (the  1996 Plan ). The 1996 Plan was approved by the
    Company s stockholders in August 1996 and the plan expired
    on January 31, 2006. 

(2)  
     
    The equity compensation plan not approved by security holders
    listed in the table above consists of two option agreements with
    each of Mr. John Kluge and Mr. Stuart Subotnick. The
    option agreements provide that options were granted to
    Messrs. Kluge and Subotnick on April 18, 1997,
    allowing each optionee to purchase 1,000,000 shares of
    common stock of the Company at a price of $7.44 per share.
    The options are fully vested and are exercisable until their
    expiration on April 17, 2007. In May 2005, Mr. Kluge
    provided the Company a recently executed assignment agreement
    that indicated that the aforementioned options were assigned,
    effective in 1998, to a trust that he has established. 

Item 6.  
     
      Selected Financial Data   

The following selected consolidated financial data should be
read in conjunction with Item 7.   Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of
Operations   and the consolidated financial statements,
including the notes thereto, and the other consolidated
financial data included elsewhere in this report.

88

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    In October 2000, the Company sold its indirect 22% interest in
    Baltcom GSM for a total cash consideration of $66.3 million
    and recorded an after tax gain on the sale of $57.4 million. 

(2)  
     
    As previously noted, the Company has restated its financial
    results to reflect correction of past accounting errors. For a
    discussion of the individual restatement adjustments and the
    impact of the restatement adjustments on the Company s
    previously filed financial statements, see Note 2,
     Restatement of Prior Financial Information  of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the
    Company has restated its 2001 and 2000 summary financial
    information for similar accounting errors. The correction of
    such errors resulted in a net adjustment of $0.2 million to
    increase accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2002. The
    impact of correction of such errors for the year ended
    December 31, 2001 financial data was: 

An increase in equity in losses of unconsolidated investees of
    $22.6 million; 

An increase in loss from continuing operations before
    discontinued components and the cumulative effect of changes in
    accounting principles of $21.0 million; and 

A decrease in loss from discontinued components of
    $24.2 million and a decrease in net loss and net loss
    attributable to common stockholders of $3.2 million. 

89

Table of Contents   

Such changes were principally due to the deconsolidation of
    Teleport. Furthermore, the correction of such accounting errors,
    as of December 31, 2001 financial data, was a decrease in
    total assets of $17.8 million, which is principally due to
    the deconsolidation of Teleport and Telcell, and an increase of
    $0.2 million in stockholders  equity. 

Furthermore, the impact of correction of such errors for the
year ended December 31, 2000 financial data was:

A decrease in revenues of $0.7 million; 

An increase in equity in losses of unconsolidated investees of
    $7.3 million; 

An increase in loss from continuing operations before
    discontinued components and the cumulative effect of changes in
    accounting principles of $4.0 million; 

A decrease in loss from discontinued components of
    $6.3 million; and 

A decrease in net loss and net loss attributable to common
    stockholders of $2.4 million. 

Such changes are principally due to the deconsolidation of
    Eurodevelopment, Teleport and Telcell. Furthermore, the
    correction of such accounting errors, as of December 31,
    2000 financial data, was a decrease in cash of
    $0.1 million, a decrease in total assets of
    $21.4 million, which is principally due to the
    deconsolidation of Teleport and Telcell and to a lesser extent,
    Eurodevelopment, and a reduction of $3.4 million in
    stockholders  equity. 

(3)  
     
    On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of
    SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible
    Assets  ( SFAS No. 142 ). As a result of
    applying the provisions of SFAS No. 142, the Company
    recorded a cumulative effect transitional impairment charge of
    $1.1 million in continuing operations and
    $13.6 million in discontinued operations as of
    January 1, 2002. Amortization of goodwill for the years
    ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 was $3.6 million and
    $4.9 million, respectively. Goodwill amortization included
    in equity in income (losses) of unconsolidated investees for the
    years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 was
    $4.9 million, $5.1 million, respectively. 

(4)  
     
    On September 30, 2003, the Board of Directors formally
    approved management s plan to dispose of the remaining
    non-core media businesses of the Company. In light of these
    events, the Company concluded that such businesses met the
    criteria for classification as discontinued business components
    as outlined in SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the
    Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  and these
    entities have been presented as such within the consolidated
    financial statements. In addition to remaining non-core media
    business, certain other businesses disposed of during 2003 and
    2002, including Snapper, Inc. and Metromedia China Corp., have
    been classified as discontinued business components in the
    consolidated financial statements. 

(5)  
     
    Effective January 1, 2003, the Company changed its policy
    regarding accounting for business ventures previously reported
    on a lag basis. All of the Company s operating business
    ventures with the exception of PeterStar have historically
    reported their financial results on a three-month lag.
    Therefore, the Company s financial results for the years
    ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 include the results
    for those business ventures for the twelve months ended
    September 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In an
    effort to provide more timely and meaningful financial
    information on the Company s business operations, the
    Company determined that all business ventures should be reported
    on a real-time basis. Therefore, the financial results as of and
    for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003 reflect the
    change of bringing all business ventures off of the lag. As a
    result of this change, a $2.5 million decrease to beginning
    accumulated deficit was recorded, of which $2.0 million is
    reflected as income related to the cumulative effect of a change
    in accounting principle and the remaining $0.5 million is
    included in income from discontinued components for the year
    ended December 31, 2003. 

(6)  
     
    For purposes of this computation, earnings are defined as
    pre-tax earnings or loss from continuing operations of the
    Company before adjustment for the cumulative effect of a change
    in accounting principle, minority interests in consolidated
    subsidiaries or income or loss from equity investees 

90

Table of Contents   

attributable to common stockholders plus (i) fixed charges
    and (ii) distributed income of equity investees. Fixed
    charges are the sum of (i) interest expensed and
    capitalized, (ii) amortization of deferred financing costs,
    premium and debt discounts, (iii) the portion of operating
    lease rental expense that is representative of the interest
    factor (deemed to be one-third) and (iv) dividends on
    Preferred Stock. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges of the
    Company was less than 1.00 for each of the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000; thus,
    earnings available for fixed charges were inadequate to cover
    fixed charges for such periods. The deficiency in earnings to
    fixed charges for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003,
    2002, 2001 and 2000 were: $66.8 million;
    $49.6 million; $96.9 million; $99.7 million and
    $20.9 million, respectively. 

(7)  
     
    Cash balances at the Company s business ventures are
    generally only made available to the Company as a result of the
    declaration and payment of dividends by the ventures. Due to
    legal and contractual restrictions on the declaration and
    payment of dividends, such cash balances cannot be readily
    accessed by the Company to meets it liquidity needs without the
    distribution of dividends. Moreover, dividends require formal
    declarations to effect transfers to the Company. (See
     Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results from Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources  ). 

Item 7.  
     
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements  

Any statements in this document about the Company s
expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future
events or performance are not historical facts and are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking
statements are often but not always made through the use of
words or phrases like  believes,   expects, 
 may,   will,   should  or
 anticipates  or the negative of these words or
phrases or other variations on these words or phrases or
comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that
involves risks and uncertainties.

These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the
Company s actual results, performance or achievements to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking
statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors
include, among others:

liquidity issues facing the Company; 

the ability of the Company to prepare and timely file its
    periodic reports with the SEC; 

the ability of the Company to work with the local management
    teams of its Magticom, Telecom Georgia, Telenet and Ayety
    business ventures in meeting their potential business
    opportunities, financial prospects and growth potential; 

general economic and business conditions, which will, among
    other things, impact demand for the Company s products and
    services; 

competition from other communications companies or companies
    engaged in related businesses, which may, among other things,
    affect the Company s ability to enter into or acquire new
    businesses, or generate revenues; 

political, social and economic conditions and changes in laws,
    rules and regulations or their administration or interpretation,
    particularly in Georgia, which may, among other things, affect
    the Company s results of operations; 

timely completion of construction projects of new systems for
    the business ventures in which the Company has invested, which
    may, among other things, impact the costs of these projects; 

91

Table of Contents   

developing legal structures in Georgia, which may, among other
    things, affect the Company s ability to enforce its legal
    rights; 

actions of local partners in the Company s business
    ventures in Georgia, which may, among other things, affect the
    Company s results of operations; 

exchange rate fluctuations; 

license renewals for the Company s business ventures; 

the loss of any significant customers or the deterioration of
    the credit quality of the Company s customers; 

changes in business strategy or development plans; 

the ability of the Company to recruit, train and retain
    qualified personnel to not only meet local management
    requirements but to also enable the Company to timely file its
    periodic reports with the SEC; 

changes in government regulation or actions of regulatory
    bodies, and 

other factors referenced in this document. 

Accordingly, any forward-looking statement is qualified in its
entirety by reference to these risks, uncertainties and other
factors and you should not place any undue reliance on them.
Furthermore, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the
date on which it is made. New factors emerge from time to time
and it is not possible for the Company to predict when and if
such factors will arise. In addition, the Company cannot assess
the impact of each factor on its business or the extent to which
any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results
to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking
statements.

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the
Company s consolidated financial statements and related
notes thereto and  Item 1.  Business.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company   

Overview:  As previously discussed (see  Item 1.
 Business   Recent Developments  
PeterStar Sale Transaction and Redemption of Senior
Notes ),  the Company sold its interest in the PeterStar
Group on August 1, 2005 for cash consideration of
$215.0 million. The Company anticipates that it will
recognize a gain of approximately $113.7 million, before
transactional costs, on the disposal of the PeterStar Group in
the third quarter of 2005. Furthermore, on August 8, 2005,
using cash proceeds from the PeterStar Sale, the Company
completed the redemption of its Senior Notes for a redemption
price of, including accrued and unpaid interest, approximately
$157.7 million.

As previously discussed (see  Item 1.
 Business   Recent Developments  
Reorganization of Ownership Interest in Business Ventures in
Georgia   Magticom Ownership Activity  
February 2005 and September 2005 ) , the Company
executed a series of transactions in February 2005 that enabled
the Company to obtain the largest economic interest, 42.8%, in
and exert operational oversight over Magticom. Additionally, in
September 2005, the Company participated in a transaction that
enabled the Company to obtain a 50.1% economic interest in
Magticom, again the largest economic interest, and the Company,
as a part of that transaction, paid off all its third party debt.

As previously discussed (see  Item 1.
 Business   Recent Developments  
Reorganization of Ownership Interest in Business Ventures in
Georgia   Telecom Ownership Activity ) , in
February 2005 the Company increased its economic interest in
Telecom Georgia to 81% and obtained the ability to exert

92

Table of Contents   

operational oversight over Telecom Georgia. In addition, in July
2006, the Company consummated a series of transactions
associated with its 81% ownership interest in Telecom Georgia.
In summary, the Company acquired a controlling interest in
Telenet, a Georgian company providing internet access, data
communication, voice telephony and international access
services, from a third party in exchange for cash and a minority
interest shareholding in both Telenet and Telecom Georgia. In
addition, Dr. Jokhtaberidze, the Company s principal
partner in Magticom, acquired from the Company a minority
interest shareholding in the Company s ownership in these
two business ventures. As a result, the Company s interests
in Telenet and Telecom Georgia are held through US-based holding
companies in which the Company has the controlling interest,
enabling the Company to exercise operational oversight over both
Telenet and Telecom Georgia. Furthermore, the Company exited the
transactions with the largest economic interest of any of the
shareholders in both Telecom Georgia and Telenet, of
approximately 21% and 26%, respectively and completed these
transactions with a net corporate cash outlay of approximately
$450,000. Further, in October 2006, the Company, through
International T LLC, an intermediary holding company in which
the Company has a 25.6% economic ownership interest, acquired
the 19% ownership interest held by Bulcom in Telecom Georgia,
thereby increasing the Company s economic interest in
Telecom Georgia to 25.6%.

Telenet provides high-speed data communication and internet
access services on both a wired and wireless basis, primarily to
commercial and institutional customers in Georgia. It also
operates international voice and data transit links between
Georgia and Russia. Immediately prior to the Company s
acquisition of Telenet, Telenet acquired from IberiaTel,
Georgia s only license to provide CDMA 450 MHz wireless
voice and data services and a CDMA 450 network deployed in
Georgia s capital city, Tbilisi. The target markets of
Telecom Georgia and Telenet are office and residential consumers
of fixed location telephony and data communication service; and
both companies have well-established Georgian brands in these
markets.

The Company undertook this business combination of Telecom
Georgia and Telenet to extend the range of communication
services offered by our Georgian companies to include
conventional office and residential local exchange telephony
service and to address the rapidly growing internet and data
communications markets in Georgia. This strategy aims to
complement and strengthen the market leadership position already
held by our Magticom business in Georgia s mobile telephony
market. In combination, Telenet and Telecom Georgia provide an
excellent vehicle for competing in Georgia s fixed location
communications market on both a wired and wireless basis. Our
new partners, the former owners of Telenet, bring considerable
local operating experience and financing capacity with respect
to the further development of Telenet and Telecom Georgia; and
the involvement of our Magticom partner in the development
assures smooth coordination between future mobile and fixed
location service expansion activities.

As previously discussed (see  Item 1.
 Business   Recent Developments   
Proposed Sale of Substantially all of Company Assets ) ,
the Company has executed a letter of intent (the  Offer
Agreement ) and entered into exclusive negotiations with
the Offering Group for them to acquire the Company s 100%
ownership interest in Metromedia International
Telecommunications, Inc., which represents substantially all of
the Company s assets, for a purchase price of
$480 million. If a binding sale and purchase agreement were
to be executed with the Offering Group, the Company s
intention was to undertake the sale to the Offering Group
through a court supervised auction conducted in accordance with
section 363 of 11 U.S.C.    101 et seq (the
 Code ) in a case to be filed in the United States
Court for the District of Delaware (the  Wind-Up ).

The Company entered into the Offering Agreement on
September 28, 2006 with the Offering Group providing for
exclusivity in negotiations during a sixty-day due diligence
period and setting forth intended terms of a binding share
purchase agreement which they presently expect to execute within
the exclusivity period and upon conclusion of the Offering
Group s due diligence. The Offer Agreement was executed on
September 28, 2006 but did not become effective until
October 1, 2006, the date at which the Company had entered
into the separate Lock-Up and Voting Agreements with
representatives of holders of approximately 80% of its
4.1 million outstanding shares of Preferred Stock (the
 Preferred Representatives ).

93

Table of Contents   

On October 24, 2006, the Company received a letter from
Istithmar in which Istithmar informed the Company that it is not
going to participate in the proposed transaction and has
assigned its proposed stake in the Offering Group to the other
members of such group on a pro rata basis. On October 28,
2006, the Company received a letter from Salford and Emergent,
the remaining two members of the Offering Group and parties to
the letter of intent, in which Salford and Emergent have
confirmed to the Company that they are still interested in
proceeding with the transactions contemplated by the letter of
intent and have agreed to assume on a pro rata basis the stake
of Istithmar in the Offering Group following the decision of
Istithmar to no longer participate in the Offering Group.

The Company received a letter dated November 16, 2006 from
Salford and Emergent, the remaining two members of the buying
consortium and parties to the Offer Agreement, in which such
members informed the Company that (i) Emergent is not going
to participate in the proposed transaction and has assigned its
proposed 10% equity stake in the buying consortium to Salford,
which 10% equity stake Salford has agreed to assume, and
(ii) Salford remains committed to proceeding with the
proposed transaction on the terms contemplated by the Offer
Agreement.

In connection with the Offer Agreement, the Preferred
Representatives have agreed to support a chapter 11 plan in
the Wind-Up pursuant to which holders of the Company s
Preferred Stock would receive $68 per share from Net
Distributable Cash of $420 million or less and one-half of
any Net Distributable Cash in excess of $420 million,
allocated equally among the shares of Preferred Stock. The
balance of Net Distributable Cash would be allocated equally
among the outstanding common shares. Since the Preferred
Representatives represent holders of more than two-thirds of the
presently outstanding Preferred Stock, if such a plan is
approved by the Court, the plan would be binding on all
preferred stockholders. By end of first half 2007, the combined
face value plus accumulated unpaid dividends that would
otherwise be due to the preferred stockholders would be in
aggregate approximately $325 million or $78.50 per share of
Preferred Stock outstanding.

On November 18, 2006, the Company and Preferred
Representatives of holders of more than two-thirds of the
Company s outstanding shares of Preferred Stock agreed to
an amendment to the Lock-Up and Voting Agreements pursuant to
which holders of the Company s Preferred Stock will receive
$68 per share from Net Distributable Consideration (as
defined in the amendment to the Lock-Up and Voting Agreements)
of $420 million or less, plus one-half of any Net
Distributable Consideration in excess of $420 million and
less than $465 million, and plus twenty percent of any
remaining Net Distributable Consideration in excess of
$465 million, allocated equally among the shares of
Preferred Stock. The balance of Net Distributable Consideration
would be allocated equally among the outstanding common shares.

There can be no assurances that any transaction with the
Offering Group or any other party concerning the Company and/or
any of its assets will take place nor can any assurance be given
with respect to the timing or terms of any such transaction.
Also, since the negotiations are ongoing between the parties, it
is possible that terms of any binding sale and purchase
agreement ultimately executed, may differ in certain material
respects from terms described herein. Details of the terms of a
final agreement, if any, reached between the Company, on the one
hand, and the Offering Group or some third party, on the other
hand, will be disclosed upon the execution of the respective
definitive agreements.

As previously discussed (see  Item 1.
 Business   Recent Developments  
Magticom Dividend Distribution  ), in October 2006,
Magticom issued a $33.33 million dividend to its shareholders of
which $3.33 million was paid to the Georgian government,
representing the required 10% withholding tax for dividend
distributions to U.S. shareholders. International TC LLC
received the $30.0 million dividend distribution and then
repaid its loan obligations, principal and interest, to a
wholly-owned subsidiary of MIG and Dr. Jokhtaberidze in the
amount of $14.73 million and $14.67 million,
respectively. Furthermore, International TC LLC distributed the
remaining $0.6 million to its members as a dividend, of
which a wholly-owned subsidiary of MIG received $0.3 million.

94

Table of Contents   

As previously discussed (see  Item 1.
 Business   2003 Restructuring ) , the
Company substantially completed the restructuring of its
business interests and corporate operations during the third
quarter of 2004 with the sale of most of the Company s
remaining radio business ventures.

Liquidity Issues   

Internal Sources of Liquidity   

As previously discussed (see  Item 1.
 Business   Liquidity ),  the Company is
a holding company and it does not generate cash flows from
operations. As a result, the Company is dependent on the
earnings of its business ventures and the distribution or other
payment of these earnings to it to meet its Long Term Corporate
Cash Outlay Requirements, in addition to making any cash
distributions to its stockholders. The Company s Long Term
Corporate Cash Outlay Requirements consist of cash outlays for
its currently projected corporate overhead expenditure
requirements and ordinary course funding of its Historic
Corporate Liabilities (as defined below).

The Company has legacy liabilities as a result of the
Company s prior U.S. based business operating activities,
principally attributable to the business activities when the
Company operated under the names of  The Actava Group,
Inc.  and  Fuqua Industries, Inc. , which
include, but are not limited to, employee benefit obligations to
former employees (pension obligations and provisions for medical
and life insurance), current funding requirements associated
with the settlement (in April 2006) of the Fuqua Industries,
Inc. Shareholder Litigation (see  Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings    Fuqua Industries, Inc. Shareholder
Litigation ), self-insurance reserves attributable to
product liability and workers  compensation claims and
environmental claims (collectively, the  Historic Corporate
Liabilities ).

As of December 31, 2004 and October 31, 2006, the
Company had $32.7 million and $16.8 million,
respectively, of unrestricted corporate cash. The Company s
business ventures are separate legal entities that have no
obligation to pay any amounts that the Company owes to third
parties. With respect to the Company s business ventures
that it accounts for following the equity method of accounting,
the voting power and veto rights of the Company s business
venture partners may limit the Company s ability to control
certain of the operations, strategies and financial decisions of
the business ventures in which it has an ownership interest. As
a result, although cash balances exist in these business
ventures, due to legal and contractual restrictions, the cash
balances of these business ventures cannot be readily accessed
to meet the Company s corporate liquidity needs without the
distribution of dividends, following formal dividend
declarations (which would also require minority shareholder
approval at certain of the respective business ventures) to
effect transfers to the Company.

As of December 31, 2004 and July 31, 2005, PeterStar
held $3.9 million and $9.7 million of cash,
respectively, which was held in banks in the country of Russia.
Pursuant to the definitive agreement that the Company executed
in February 2005 associated with the PeterStar Sale, the Company
agreed that it would not take actions as the majority
shareholder in PeterStar to cause PeterStar to either distribute
a dividend to its shareholders or repay any intercompany loans
to the Company.

In addition, as of December 31, 2004, Magticom had
$28.4 million of cash, which was held in banks in Georgia.
As of October 31, 2006, Magticom had $21.3 million of
cash, of which $6.0 million was held in a U.S. bank and the
remainder held in Georgian banks. As previously disclosed
(see  Item 1.  Business  Recent
Developments Reorganization of Ownership Interest in
Business Ventures in Georgia Magticom Ownership
Activity February 2005  ), the Company obtained the
largest effective ownership interest in Magticom and gained the
ability to exert operational oversight over Magticom in February
2005, including decisions related to the distribution of
shareholder dividends.

The Company projects that its current corporate cash reserves
and anticipated continuing dividends from Magticom will be
sufficient for the Company to meet, on a timely basis, its
currently planned Long Term Corporate Cash Outlay Requirements.
The Company intends to maintain minimal corporate cash balances
in

95

Table of Contents   

the future, since the Company believes that the Magticom cash
reserves should be used for business development purposes in
Georgia and the surrounding Central Asian region.

Access to Business Ventures  Cash Balances 

The Company has invested in substantially all of its business
ventures with local partners. With respect to the Company s
business ventures that it accounts for following the equity
method of accounting, the voting power and veto rights of the
Company s business venture partners may limit the
Company s ability to control certain of the operations,
strategies and financial decisions of the business ventures in
which it has an ownership interest. As a result, although cash
balances exist in these business ventures, due to legal and
contractual restrictions, cash balances of the business ventures
cannot be readily accessed without distribution of dividends,
which require formal dividend declarations to affect transfers
to the Company.

As a result of actions taken by local management at Ayety,
Telecom Georgia and some of the Company s former business
ventures, these business ventures engaged in commercial
activities that did not yield full or satisfactory economic
benefit to the business ventures. Where such actions occurred,
the Company was unable to prevent them due to limitations on the
Company s shareholder rights with respect to management
participation or control. For example, either cash receipts for
services rendered by the respective business ventures were
diverted from the business ventures bank account or expenditures
were made or commitments were entered into by the business
venture that provided little or no economic value to the
respective business ventures. However, to the knowledge of the
Company, no such commercial activities and resulting accounting
consequences of the aforementioned transactions have been
material to the Company s historical results of operations
and financial condition. Furthermore, management is not aware of
any instances in which such expenditures and commitments have
not been properly reflected in its consolidated financial
statements.

As discussed previously, the Company is presently unable to
exercise satisfactory management control over Ayety  (see
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings   Legal Matters
with Mtatsminda   International Telcell SPS vs
Mtatsminda ).  This circumstance may give rise to
results of future operations at Ayety, which do not reflect
results that would be achievable under proper and effective
management. The Company believes, however, that the
Company s overall prospective results of operations and
general financial condition will not be materially affected by
this condition for the following reasons:

The Company s U.S. GAAP investment carrying balance in
    Ayety is zero; 

The Company has no legal obligation to fund future operations of
    Ayety and would not further invest in this business unless and
    until satisfactory management control can be reasserted; 

Ayety s financial performance had historically been
    immaterial to the Company s overall results of operations
    and financial condition; and 

The Company does not anticipate the receipt of dividends or
    repayments of previously made loans to Ayety until such time as
    satisfactory management control can be reasserted. 

However, any limitation on the Company s ability to
repatriate amounts from its business ventures, as a result of
the poor financial performance of the aforementioned business
ventures due to weak local management, represents a missed
opportunity for the Company to increase corporate cash inflows.

External Sources of Liquidity   

As previously discussed, the Company has a complicated equity
capital structure. For example, the Company s outstanding
Preferred Stock is trading at a substantial discount to its per
share liquidation value. This condition limits the
Company s ability to access the capital markets or is a
significant deterrent for the Company using its common stock as
currency for business development purposes.

96

Table of Contents   

During the past several years, the Company has relied upon cash
receipts from the sale of certain of its noncore business
ventures and, to a lesser extent, the repatriation of cash from
business ventures; in the form of dividend distributions or the
repayment of outstanding loans, in order to meet its outstanding
legal liabilities and obligations. (see  Item 1A.
 Risk Factors   The Company may face limitations or
additional costs in securing funds for further business
development ). 

Capital Resources 

Magticom has in recent years funded its continuing capital
expenditure and working capital requirements from its own
operating cash flow. The Company anticipates this trend to
continue for the foreseeable future. Magticom spent
approximately $27.4 million in capital expenditures for the
twelve months ended December 31, 2005, which was internally
funded from its operations. The currently budgeted capital
expenditures program for Magticom for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2006 is in excess of $60.0 million, which the
Company anticipates will be internally funded by Magticom and
not require additional Company investment.

PeterStar in most recent history had been able to self-fund its
working capital requirements and capital spending for
construction, development and maintenance of its network
infrastructure and operational systems. Through July 31,
2005, PeterStar had expended $9.3 million in capital
expenditures for its network infrastructure and operational
systems and this amount was internally funded from PeterStar
operations.

With respect to Telecom Georgia, the Company anticipates that
Telecom Georgia, as presently organized, will be able to fund
its continuing working capital and capital spending requirements
from internal operating cash flows. Telecom Georgia spent
$0.1 million in capital expenditures for the twelve months
ended December 31, 2005, which was internally funded from
its operations. The currently budgeted capital expenditures
program for Telecom Georgia for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2006 is expected to be approximately
$0.5 million. Current preliminary forecasts of Telecom
Georgia s near term operations suggest that costs of needed
internal restructuring at Telecom Georgia as presently organized
can also be funded from internal cash flows; however, the
Company may choose to make additional investment in Telecom
Georgia to accelerate the timing of this restructuring. The
Company has no obligation to provide any financing to Telecom
Georgia.

With respect to Ayety, the Company is currently not certain of
its capital resource requirements for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2005; however, the Company has no obligation
to provide any further financing to Ayety.

See      Liquidity Issues   for a
discussion of the liquidity issues facing the Company.

97

Table of Contents   

Contractual Obligations 

The following represents contractual commitments associated with
long-term debt, capital leases inclusive of interest payments,
non-cancelable operating leases net of any non-cancelable
subleases, purchase obligations, and employment related costs
(in thousands):

(1)  
     
    On August 1, 2005, the Company sold its interest in
    PeterStar and on August 8, 2005, the Company redeemed the
    then outstanding Senior Notes. The long-term debt and capital
    lease obligations ceased being commitments of the Company
    subsequent to these two events. 

(2)  
     
    Such obligations have not been recognized in the Company s
    Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2004.
    However, the Company has entered into contractual arrangements
    that obligate the Company to remit such payments, thus these
    obligations represent  off balance sheet  arrangements. 

(3)  
     
    This amount represents the amount due to executive officers of
    the Company associated with the PeterStar Sale; bonuses due to
    the Company s Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting
    Officer to be paid only at the time such that the Company is
    current with its periodic filings with the SEC; and amounts owed
    pursuant to employment agreements with our executive officers
    (see  Item 11.  Executive Compensation  
    Executive Transaction Bonus Agreements, Employment Agreements
    and Bonus Award Agreements ).  

Off Balance Sheet Transactions 

As part of its ongoing business, the Company does not
participate in transactions that generate relationships with
unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, which would
have been established for the purpose of facilitating
off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or
limited purposes. The Company is party to a contractual
arrangement for non-cancelable operating leases totaling
$346,000 as of December 31, 2004. In addition, the Company
has outstanding $6.2 million of outstanding letters of
credit, which serve principally as collateral for certain
liabilities under the Company s self-insurance program.
Such letters are fully collateralized with cash held at
financial institutions. Of the $6.2 million of outstanding
letters of credit, $2.6 million of outstanding letters of
credit were terminated in the first quarter of 2005, as such
letters of credit were deemed to be in excess of estimated
self-insurance liabilities.

Senior Notes 

In connection with the acquisition of PLD Telekom, the Company
issued $210.6 million in aggregate principal amount at
maturity of its Senior Notes in exchange for PLD Telekom s
then outstanding senior notes and convertible subordinated
notes. The Senior Notes accrued interest at the rate of
10  1  / 2 % per
year, payable semi-annually in cash. On April 24, 2003, the
Company completed an exchange with Adamant Advisory Services, a
British Virgin Islands company ( Adamant ), in which
the Company conveyed its ownership interest in certain of its
businesses in Russia in exchange for, among other things,
approximately $58.6 million

98

Table of Contents   

face value of the Company s Senior Notes held by Adamant.
With the completion of this transaction, the outstanding
principal balance on the Senior Notes was reduced to
$152.0 million.

As previously discussed, on August 8, 2005, using a portion
of the cash proceeds from the PeterStar Sale, the Company
completed the redemption of its outstanding $152.0 million
Senior Notes. The aggregate redemption price of the Senior
Notes, including accrued and unpaid interest, was
$157.7 million.

Preferred Stock 

As of December 31, 2004, there were 4.1 million shares
of the Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share issued and
outstanding. Each share of Preferred Stock has a liquidation
preference of $50.00 plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon.
Dividends on the Preferred Stock are cumulative from the date of
issuance and payable quarterly in arrears. The Company may make
any payments due on the Preferred Stock, including dividend
payments and redemptions (i) in cash, (ii) through
issuance of the Company s common stock or
(iii) through a combination thereof.

Through March 15, 2001, the Company paid its quarterly
dividends on the Preferred Stock in cash. The Company has
elected not to declare dividends for any quarterly dividend
periods ending after June 15, 2001. As of December 31,
2004 and December 31, 2005, total dividends in arrears were
$64.7 million and $84.8 million, respectively. The
amount of dividends that will accumulate for the twelve months
ending December 31, 2006 will be $21.7 million,
including the effects of compounding and assuming there are no
payments of the dividends.

The Preferred Stock is redeemable at any time, in whole or in
part, at the discretion of the Company, initially at a price of
$52.5375 per share in the year 2000 and thereafter at
prices declining to $50.00 per share on or after
September 15, 2007, plus in each case all accrued and
unpaid dividends as of the redemption date. As of
December 31, 2004, the Company has not redeemed any of the
Preferred Stock. The Preferred Stock is not subject to any
sinking fund provisions.

The Preferred Stock is convertible at any time at the option of
the holders into shares of common stock of the Company. The rate
used to determine the number of shares of common stock is a
function of the liquidation preference, any accrued and unpaid
dividends and the initial conversion price of $15.00, subject to
adjustment based on certain events defined in the Certificate of
Designation. As of December 31, 2004, no shares of
Preferred Stock have been converted into shares of common stock.
Furthermore, the Certificate of Designation provides that each
holder of shares of Preferred Stock has a one-time option to
convert their shares of Preferred Stock into common stock upon
the Company triggering the  sale of all or substantially
all of the assets of the Company  clause, as defined in the
Certificate of Designation (the  Sale Event ). If such
an event were to occur, the Company would ascertain if the
average closing price of a share of common stock for the five
trading days preceding the Sale Event is less than the
conversion price discussed in the preceding
paragraph (currently $15). If the average closing price of
a share of common stock for the five trading days preceding the
Sale Event was lower than the conversion price discussed above,
then preferred stockholders would have a limited one-time option
to convert their shares of Preferred Stock (the liquidation
value of the Preferred Stock, including accrued but unpaid
dividends) into common stock. If any holder of Preferred Stock
chooses to exercise this one-time conversion option, they would
have the right to convert their shares of Preferred Stock into
common stock at a conversion price equal to the greater of:

the average closing price of common stock for the five trading
    days preceding the Sale Event, and 

$7.91. 

However, in lieu of issuing shares of common stock upon the
exercise of this one-time conversion option, the Company would
have the right, at its sole option, to make a cash payment in an
amount equal to the average closing price of a share of common
stock for the five trading days preceding the Sale Event for
each share otherwise issuable upon exercise of this one-time
conversion option. This one-time conversion option would have to
be exercised within 30 days following the consummation of
the Sale Event. Under the terms of

99

Table of Contents   

the Certificate of Designation governing the Preferred Stock,
the consummation of the PeterStar Sale did not constitute a Sale
Event.

In the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution,
liquidation or winding up of the Company, the holders of the
Preferred Stock will be entitled to be paid out of the
Company s assets available for distribution to its
stockholders before any payment or distribution is made to the
holders of common stock or other class of stock subordinated to
the Preferred Stock. The holders of the Preferred Stock are
entitled to receive a liquidation preference in the amount of
$50.00 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends, or
a pro rata share of the full amounts to which the holders of the
Preferred Stock are entitled in the event the liquidation
preference cannot be paid in full. Under the terms of the
Certificate of Designation, the consummation of the PeterStar
Sale was not deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Except as
described below, the holders of the Preferred Stock have no
voting rights.

According to the terms of the Preferred Stock, in the event the
Company does not make six consecutive dividend payments on the
Preferred Stock, holders of 25% of the outstanding Preferred
Stock can compel the Company to call a special meeting of the
holders of the Preferred Stock for the purpose of electing two
new directors to the Company s Board of Directors. As of
September 15, 2002, the Company had failed to make six
consecutive Preferred Stock dividend payments. In June 2004, the
Company entered into the Board of Director Nominee Agreement
with certain holders of the Preferred Stock who represented to
the Company that they held discretionary authority (including
the power to vote) with regard to 2.4 million shares, or
approximately 58%, of the outstanding 4.1 million shares of
Preferred Stock. Under the terms of the Board of Director
Nominee Agreement, the Participating Preferred Stockholders
irrevocably waived the right to request a special meeting of
holders of Preferred Stock to elect directors or take any action
to request such a meeting. This waiver is to remain effective
until immediately after the next annual meeting of the
Company s stockholders is held. In consideration of this
waiver, Messrs. Gale and Henderson, who were identified by
the Participating Preferred Stockholders as director candidates,
were elected as Class III Directors by the Company s
Board of Directors. Their terms will expire at the
Company s next annual meeting of stockholders. At the next
annual meeting, the holders of Preferred Stock will have the
right to vote separately as a class for the election of two
directors. The Company believes that the Board of Director
Nominee Agreement was advantageous to the Company because it
eliminated the need to hold a special meeting, which would have
been both time consuming and expensive.

Although opportunities to restructure the Preferred Stock have
previously been evaluated, present Company plans presume the
continued deferral of the payment of dividends on the
outstanding Preferred Stock. The Company cannot provide
assurances at this time that a restructuring of the Preferred
Stock will be consummated or, if consummated, that such effort
would produce a material improvement in common shareholder
equity valuation.

Business Venture Support and Corporate Overhead Costs 

In the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the
Company incurred $25.4 million, $29.4 million, and
$27.7 million, respectively, on support of its subsidiary
business ventures and headquarters overheads. The Company
provides business development and financial reporting services
to its business ventures. The principal components of the
Company s corporate overhead costs relate to personnel
costs (salaries and wages, other employee benefits and travel
related costs), professional fees (lawyers, accountants, bankers
and consultants), facility related costs and other general and
associated administrative costs (insurance and regulatory
compliance costs) and funding associated with the Company s
previously discussed Historic Corporate Liabilities. For further
discussion of the Company s corporate overhead expenses,
 (see Item 7.  Consolidated Results of Operations
for the Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to the
Consolidated Results of Operations for the Year Ended
December 31, 2003, Other Consolidated Results ) .

Due to the Company s current initiatives to settle certain
of its Historic Corporate Liabilities related to employee
benefit obligations and the Company s current evaluation of
costs that it will need to incur to meet its compliance
requirements associated with SOX 404, the Company is currently
unable to provide clear

100

Table of Contents   

guidance as to its expected corporate overhead expenses and
respective corporate cash outlays over the next twelve months.

Guarantees and Commitments 

Employee Benefit Plans   

The Company is currently taking steps to settle and resolve
certain benefit obligations to former U.S.-based employees of
the Company. These initiatives are being implemented to both
reduce the Company s prospective rate of use of corporate
cash and to resolve certain of its long-standing Historic
Corporate Liabilities.

Until the third quarter of 2004, the Company sponsored two
tax-qualified defined benefit pension plans in the
U.S. These plans were merged at the end of September 2004
to reduce administrative and related expenditures (the
 Pension Plan ). In the third quarter of 2004, the
Company initiated a process whereby the Pension Plan would be
terminated pursuant to a standard termination, in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4041 of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
( ERISA ). At the time of initiating the termination,
the Company believed that the process to terminate the plan
would take at most twelve months to complete; however, the final
distribution did not take place until the end of first quarter
2006. Specifically, on March 14, 2006, the Company funded
approximately $5.4 million to the Pension Plan to ensure
that the value of the Pension Plan assets was sufficient to
cover all benefit liabilities.

The Pension Plan was required, at termination, to have assets
sufficient in value to provide for all retiree benefit
liabilities under the Pension Plan within the meaning of
Section 4041 of ERISA. The Company engaged an outside
actuary to determine the additional amount that the Company was
required to contribute to the Pension Plan to satisfy all
benefit liabilities. The Company anticipates that it will
recognize an additional expense of $10.2 million in the
first quarter of 2006 for the termination of the Pension Plan,
which includes recognition of $7.4 million of expense that
is recorded within the  accumulated other comprehensive
loss  line item within the Company s consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 2004.

In addition, the Company also maintains a nonqualified, unfunded
supplemental retirement plan ( SERP ) for certain
former executives based in the U.S. and an unfunded group
medical plan and life insurance coverage for certain former
employees subsequent to retirement ( Retiree Medical
Plan ). As of December 31, 2004, the unfunded status
of the SERP and Retiree Medical Plan was approximately
$3.7 million. The Company paid $0.6 million in 2005 to
participants in the SERP and Retiree Medical Plan. In addition,
the Company is currently preparing the necessary analysis needed
to negotiate with participants in the SERP and the Retiree
Medical Plan with regard to a settlement of the Company s
obligations to such former employees; however, at present the
Company is not certain if it will be successful in negotiating a
settlement or of the ultimate cash outlay required to settle
fully any of its SERP and Retiree Medical Plan obligations.

Discussion of Changes in Financial Position 

The Company s current ratio, defined as total current
assets divided by total current liabilities, declined to 1.2
from 1.8 as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively,
after increasing to 1.8 from 1.0 as of December 31, 2003
and 2002, respectively. The decrease in current ratio in 2004 is
primarily due to the accrual of liabilities for the 2004 MOU
obligation cancellation payment ($7.5 million), the Fuqua
litigation ($3.0 million) and the reclassification of the
employee benefit plan obligations ($5.7 million) from
long-term to current as of December 31, 2004. Such
reclassification is due to management s actions to
terminate such benefit plan obligations within the next twelve
months.

101

Table of Contents   

Cash Flows from Operating Activities  

The following table is a summary of operating cash flow
activities of the Company during the respective periods, as
reported within the Company s Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows (in thousands):

Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended
December 31, 2004 was $0.4 million as compared to cash
used in operating activities of $7.1 million for the year
ended December 31, 2003. The $7.5 million year over
year reduction in cash used in operating activities was due to a
$7.4 million decrease in cash used in operations, net of
total noncash and other reconciling items (as defined in the
table above), and a $0.1 million increase in cash provided
by working capital items.

102

Table of Contents   

The $7.4 million decrease in cash used in operations, net
of total noncash and other reconciling items, reflects the net
of the $30.8 million unfavorable movement in loss from
operations in 2004 as compared to 2003, which was fully offset
by a $38.2 million reduction in total noncash and other
reconciling items in 2004 as compared to 2003. The
$38.2 million reduction in total noncash and other
reconciling items, reflects:

The gain of $24.6 million recognized on retirement of debt
    in 2003 that was not repeated in 2004; 

The gain of $16.6 million recognized on the disposition of
    business ventures and discontinued components in 2003 in excess
    of the gains recognized in 2004; 

An increase of dividends and interest received from
    unconsolidated investees of $3.8 million, which represents
    dividend distributions from Magticom. As previously discussed,
    in February and September 2005 the Company s holdings in
    Magticom were reorganized, so that the Company now holds a 50.1%
    effective ownership interest, an increase from 34.5% as of
    December 31, 2004 (see   Item 1. Business  
    Recent Developments   Reorganization of Ownership
    Interest in Business Ventures in Georgia   Magticom
    Ownership Activity   February 2005  ). As
    such, future dividends declared by Magticom will result in a
    larger proportionate receipt of dividends for the Company; and 

Such gains were partially offset principally by an increase in
    equity in income of unconsolidated investees of
    $5.6 million, which is principally due to the continued
    favorable results of Magticom during 2004, the cumulative effect
    of $2.5 million related to a change in accounting principle
    recognized in 2003 upon the elimination of a three-month lag in
    reporting for certain business ventures and certain discontinued
    components and to a lesser extent change in the amounts for
    depreciation and amortization, minority interest, deferred
    income taxes and asset impairment charges in 2004 as compared to
    2003. 

The $0.1 million increase in cash provided by working
capital items reflects:

A $4.9 million increase in cash used for prepaid expenses
    and other assets, which was primarily due to the significant
    reduction in prepaids during 2003 as compared to 2002.
    Professional advisors required significant prepayments and
    advances for professional services in 2002 that were expensed in
    2003. Thus, prepaids decreased by $4.9 million in 2003 as
    compared 2002; however, the Company s prepaid expenses
    remained relatively consistent in 2004 as compared to 2003; 

A $0.8 million increase in cash provided by working capital
    items of discontinued components (this amount represents the
    cash used for working capital items of discontinued components
    prior to each of their respective dispositions); 

A $2.7 million decrease in cash used for accounts payable
    and accrued liabilities. Although the Company used a significant
    amount of cash in 2004 to reduce its outstanding accounts
    payable and accrued liabilities, the Company reflected a net
    cash inflow in 2004 as compared to 2003, since the Company
    accrued approximately $10.5 million in the fourth quarter
    2004. Specifically, the Company accrued the following: 

A $7.5 million accrual to recognize the Company s
    pro-rata portion of the $15.0 million obligation to cancel
    the Georgian government s rights under a 2004 MOU to obtain
    a 20% Magticom purchase option (see   Item 1.
    Business   Recent Developments  
    Reorganization of Ownership Interest in Business Ventures in
    Georgia   Magticom Ownership Activity  
    February 2005 ) ; and 

A $3.0 million accrual to indemnify certain prior directors
    for litigation costs (see   Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings   Fuqua Industries, Inc. Shareholder
    Litigation   and 

103

Table of Contents   

Cash Flows from Investing Activities  

The following table is a summary of investing cash flow
activities of the Company during the respective periods, as
reported within the Company s Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows (in thousands):

Cash provided by investing activities for the year ended
December 31, 2004 was $11.2 million as compared to
$14.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
The $2.9 million decrease in cash provided by investing
activities in 2004 as compared to 2003, reflects:

In 2004, the Company received $0.7 million in cash proceeds
    from the disposition of Cosmos TV; and 

In 2003, the Company received $19.8 million in net cash
    proceeds associated with the following dispositions:
    $14.5 million from the sale of Baltcom TV;
    $3.6 million from the Adamant Transaction;
    $1.2 million from the sale of Tyumen; and $0.9 million
    from the sale of Teleplus, net of costs paid of
    $0.4 million; 

In 2004, the Company received $31.0 million for
    dispositions of its interests in discontinued components,
    comprised of: $13.5 million, $16.5 million,
    $1.5 million, $0.7 million and $0.5 million
    related to the dispositions of MII, Romsat, ATK, Vilsat TV and
    Radio Skonto, respectively, net of costs paid of
    $1.7 million; and 

In 2003, the Company received $14.2 million for
    dispositions of its interests in discontinued components,
    comprised of: $2.1 million, $4.5 million and
    $1.4 million from the dispositions of Sun TV, Technocom and
    from the Adamant Transaction, respectively, net of costs paid of
    $0.6 million. In addition, the Company received
    $6.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2003 in
    relation to the final payment from Simplicity for the sale of
    Snapper Inc. that occurred in November 2002 and
    $0.8 million from other dispositions; 

An increase in cash outlays of $3.8 million associated with
    PeterStar business development to fund its regional business
    acquisition strategy, in 2004 as compared to 2003; 

104

Table of Contents   

A decrease in cash outlays of $2.2 million and
    $1.2 million for capital expenditures associated with
    discontinued business components and PeterStar, respectively, in
    2004 as compared to 2003; 

A decrease in cash outlays of $0.5 million for the funding
    of discontinued business components, in 2004 as compared to
    2003; and 

The remaining $0.7 million reduction in cash proceeds is
    attributable to other PeterStar investing activities associated
    with short-term financial investments. 

Cash Flows from Financing Activities  

The following table is a summary of financing cash flow
activities of the Company during the respective periods, as
reported within the Company s Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows (in thousands):

Cash used in financing activities for the year ended
December 31, 2004 was $1.7 million as compared to
$6.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The
$4.7 million reduction in cash used in financing activities
in 2004 as compared to 2003, reflects:

A reduction in cash outlays of $4.1 million associated with
    dividends distributed to minority interests. The
    $4.1 million decrease was result of PeterStar not
    distributing any dividends to its shareholders in 2004 as
    compared to 2003. In 2003, PeterStar distributed dividends to
    its shareholders of $14.0 million and the minority partner
    received a dividend of $4.1 million; and 

The remaining $0.6 million reduction in cash outlays was
    associated with a decrease in PeterStar repayments on its debt
    and capital lease obligations. 

105

Table of Contents   

Year Ended December 31,
2003 Compared to Year End December 31, 2002  

Cash Flows from Operating Activities  

The following table is a summary of operating cash flow
activities of the Company during the respective periods, as
reported within the Company s Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows (in thousands):

Cash used in operating activities for the year ended
December 31, 2003 was $7.1 million as compared to cash
used in operating activities of $1.3 million for the year
ended December 31, 2002. The $5.8 million increase in
cash used in operating activities in 2003 as compared to 2002
was due to a $7.0 million decrease in cash provided by
working capital items and a $1.2 million decrease in cash
used in operations, net of total noncash and other reconciling
items (as defined in the statements of cash flows).

106

Table of Contents   

The $7.0 million decrease in the cash provided by working
capital items, reflects:

A $12.8 million increase in cash used by working capital
    items at discontinued components, principally due the reduction
    in inventories and accounts receivable during 2002 as compared
    to 2001 at Snapper and during the year ended December 31,
    2002, the Company received $4.9 million and
    $3.1 million related to the settlement of certain claims
    and taxes, respectively, related to discontinued business
    ventures; 

A $7.6 million decrease in the use of cash associated with
    prepaid expenses, primarily due to the significant reduction in
    prepaid expenses during 2003 as compared to 2002. Due to the
    Company s liquidity issues in 2002, professional advisors
    required significant prepayments and advances for professional
    services in 2002 that were expensed in 2003. The Company did not
    have such similar prepayments as of December 31, 2003. 

A $3.0 million decrease in cash used to settle accounts
    payable and accrued expenses in 2003 as compared to 2002; 

A $4.2 million increase in cash used for long-term assets
    and liabilities, principally the release of certain restricted
    cash collateralizing the Company s self-insurance
    obligations in 2003 as compared to 2002; and 

A $0.7 million decrease in cash received from collections
    of accounts receivable in 2003 as compared to 2002. 

The $1.2 million decrease in cash outflows from operations,
net of total noncash and other reconciling items, primarily
reflects a favorable change in the Company s income
(loss) of $121.1 million, which was offset by a
$119.9 million unfavorable change in the total noncash and
other reconciling items.

The $119.9 million increase in total noncash and other
reconciling items, reflects:

The $33.2 million increase in the equity in income of
    unconsolidated investees, principally due to an impairment
    charge of $27.1 million that was recorded in 2002
    attributable to the Company s investment in Comstar with
    the residual associated with increased equity in earnings
    attributable to Magticom; 

The gain of $24.6 million on the retirement of debt in 2003
    that did not occur in 2002; 

The Company recognized higher gains of $19.3 million and
    $7.5 million associated with the disposition of
    discontinued business components and equity investee business
    ventures, respectively, in 2003 as compared to 2002; 

The Company recorded a $13.6 million cumulative effect of a
    change in accounting principles, in 2002, associated with
    discontinued components related to the transitional impairment
    recognized upon adoption of SFAS No. 142 and no
    corresponding amount in 2003; 

The Company recorded a $1.1 million cumulative effect of a
    change in accounting principles, in 2002, associated with
    continuing operations related to the transitional impairment
    recognized upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, which had a
    favorable effect on cash flows. Furthermore, the Company
    recorded a $2.5 million cumulative effect of a change in
    accounting principles, in 2003, associated with continuing
    operations and discontinued components related to the
    elimination of a three-month lag in reporting for certain
    business ventures and discontinued components; and 

107

Table of Contents   

The remaining components were related to change in the amounts
    in 2003 as compared to 2002 with respect to: 

An increase of dividends and interest received from
    unconsolidated investees of $6.1 million, which represents
    dividend distributions from Magticom in 2003 and various
    business ventures paid dividends and interest on credit lines
    during 2002; and 

Asset impairment charges for continuing operations and
    discontinued components of $7.4 million and
    $4.8 million, respectively; 

Depreciation and amortization for discontinued components and
    continuing operations of $8.4 million and
    $0.7 million, respectively; 

Accretion of debt discount of $5.3 million in 2002 and no
    corresponding amount in 2003; 

Minority interest of $1.8 million; and 

Deferred income taxes of $0.8 million. 

Cash Flows from Investing Activities  

The following table is a summary of investing cash flow
activities of the Company during the respective periods, as
reported within the Company s Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows (in thousands):

The $0.6 million increase in cash provided by investing
activities in 2003 as compared to 2002, reflects:

In 2003, the Company received $19.8 million in net cash
    proceeds associated with the following dispositions:
    $14.5 million from the sale of Baltcom TV;
    $3.6 million from the Adamant Transaction;
    $1.2 million from the sale of Tyumen; and $0.9 million
    from the sale of Teleplus, net of costs paid of
    $0.4 million; and 

In 2002, the Company received $11.2 million in cash
    proceeds associated with the following dispositions:
    $9.4 million from the sale of Alma TV; $1.7 million
    from the sale of Belarus-Netherlands BELCEL; and
    $0.1 million from the sale of Omni-Metromedia/ Caspian
    American; 

108

Table of Contents   

In 2003, the Company received $14.2 million in cash
    proceeds associated with the following dispositions:
    $6.0 million for the final payment from the sale of
    Snapper, Inc. that occurred in late 2002; $1.4 million from
    the Adamant Transaction; $4.5 million from the sale of
    Technocom; $2.1 million from the sale of Sun TV; and
    $0.8 million from other dispositions, net of costs paid of
    $0.5 million; and 

In 2002, the Company received $22.8 million in cash
    proceeds associated with the following dispositions:
    $15.6 million from the sale of Snapper, Inc.;
    $4.8 million from the sale of ALTEL; and $2.4 million
    from the sale of CPY Yellow Pages; 

A decrease in cash proceeds of $0.8 million from loan
    principal repayment received from unconsolidated investees in
    2003 as compared with 2002. In 2002, $0.8 million was
    distributed by various business ventures, principally related to
    repayments of outstanding principal on outstanding credit line
    facilities; 

A decrease in cash outlays of $3.6 million for capital
    expenditures associated with discontinued business components in
    2003 as compared to 2002; 

An increase in cash outlays of $2.5 million for capital
    expenditures for PeterStar in 2003 as compared to 2002. The
    PeterStar capital expenditures were principally to fund the
    growth of PeterStar and the efforts of PeterStar to provide a
    high speed digital fiber network to its customers, in lieu of
    traditional copper telephone infrastructure; 

An increase in cash outlays of $1.5 million for the funding
    of discontinued business components in 2003 as compared to 2002;
    and 

The remaining $1.9 million reduction in cash used for
    investing activities is attributable to other PeterStar
    investing activities associated with short-term financial
    investments. 

Cash Flows from Financing Activities  

The following table is a summary of financing cash flow
activities of the Company during the respective periods, as
reported within the Company s Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows (in thousands):

The $4.5 million reduction in cash used in financing
activities in 2003 as compared to 2002, reflects:

A reduction of $11.5 million in payments on debt and
    capital leases of discontinued components, which is principally
    payments that Snapper made on its bank facility prior to the
    Company s disposition in November 2002; 

A decrease of $4.9 million in PeterStar borrowings in 2003
    as compared to 2002; 

109

Table of Contents   

Inflation and Foreign Currency 

The effects of inflation in the respective markets in which the
Company s business ventures operate are reflected within
the Company s business ventures financial results as
effects of foreign currency fluctuations.

During 1999, a number of emerging market economies suffered
significant economic and financial difficulties resulting in
liquidity crises, devaluations of currencies, higher interest
rates and reduced opportunities for financing. Although the
economic climate in these markets has improved, the long-term
prospects for the emerging market of Georgia remains unclear.
The devaluation of many of the currencies in the region in 2000
and 2001 was not as marked as in previous years and in 2003 and
2004 such currencies strengthened against the U.S. Dollar.
However, the potential still remains for future negative effects
on the U.S. Dollar value of the revenues generated by the
Company s business ventures. Any such economic difficulties
could materially negatively impact the financial performance of
the Company.

The Company currently does not hedge against exchange rate risk
and therefore could be materially negatively impacted by
declines in exchange rates between the time its business
ventures receive funds in local currency and the time such
business ventures distribute these funds in U.S. Dollars to
the Company. The ability of the Company to hedge is
significantly limited, since the Company s operations are
in the country of Georgia and the Georgian Lari is not readily
convertible outside Georgia.

The Company s strategy is to minimize its foreign currency
risk. Whenever possible, the Company billed and collected
revenues in U.S. Dollars or an equivalent local currency
amount adjusted on a monthly basis for exchange rate
fluctuations. However, due to the strengthening of the Russian
Ruble, effective September 1, 2003 PeterStar began billing
and collecting in Russian Rubles. In a majority of customer
contracts, PeterStar has retained the right to change the
billing currency should PeterStar deem the circumstances warrant
such a change. As a result, PeterStar changed its functional
currency to the Russian Ruble effective October 1, 2003. In
addition, due to changes in its principal liabilities, Magticom
changed its functional currency to the Georgian Lari effective
April 1, 2003.

The Company is exposed to foreign exchange price risk in that
its operations are located outside of the United States. In
remeasuring the financial statements stated in the local
currency into the reporting currency, U.S. Dollars, a
cumulative translation adjustment may result. In Russia, where
the Company had the majority of its operations in consolidated
business ventures, a 10% devaluation of the Russian Ruble in the
year ended December 31, 2004, for example, would have
resulted in a decrease to the Company s net income of
$0.4 million, with all other variables held constant. In
addition, Magticom, which is accounted for under the equity
method of accounting, could be exposed to foreign exchange price
risk. In Georgia, where Magticom operates, a 10% devaluation of
the Georgian Lari for the year ended December 31, 2004, for
example, would have resulted in a decrease to the Company s
net income of $0.8 million, with all other variables held
constant.

Through the year ended December 31, 2004, the average
Georgian Lari exchange rate against the U.S. Dollar
increased by 11% compared to the average exchange rate for the
year ended December 31, 2003. For the year ended
December 31, 2003 the average Georgian Lari exchange rate
increased by 3% against the U.S. Dollar compared to the
year ended December 31, 2002.

Through the year ended December 31, 2004, the average
Russian Ruble exchange rate against the U.S. Dollar
increased by 6% compared to the average exchange rate for the
year ended December 31, 2003.

110

Table of Contents   

For the year ended December 31, 2003, the average Russian
Ruble exchange rate increased by 2% against the U.S. Dollar
compared to the year ended December 31, 2002.

As the Company s business ventures expand their operations
and become more dependent on local currency based transactions,
the Company expects that its foreign currency exposure will
increase. However, Magticom established a U.S. Dollar bank
account at a U.S. based financial institution to maintain
its excess cash balance.

The following table provides information about the
Company s principal financial instruments denominated in
Russian Rubles and presents such information in U.S. Dollar
equivalents (in thousands). The table summarizes information on
instruments that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange
rates.

In addition to the above exposure to changes in the exchange
rate of the Russian Ruble, the Company is exposed for its
investments in Georgia based business ventures, principally
Magticom, for changes in the exchange rate of the Georgian Lari.
The Company s U.S. GAAP carrying balance in Magticom
was $30.3 million, $24.9 million and
$21.5 million as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

Results of Operations 

Basis of Presentation   

The Company accounts for certain of its business ventures
following the equity method of accounting, since it generally
does not exercise control over such business ventures. Under the
equity method of accounting, the Company reflects the
investments in and advances to business ventures, adjusted for
distributions received and its share of the income or losses on
the Company s balance sheet. The income (losses) recorded
represents the Company s equity in the income (losses) of
the business ventures. Equity in the income (losses) of the
business ventures by the Company are generally reflected
according to the level of ownership of the business venture by
the Company until such business venture s contributed
capital has been fully depleted. Subsequently, the Company
recognizes the full amount of losses generated by the business
venture, if the Company is the sole funding source of the
business venture.

In an effort to provide more timely and meaningful financial
information on the Company s business operations, the
Company determined that all business ventures should be reported
on a real-time basis. Accordingly, effective January 1,
2003, the Company changed its policy regarding the accounting
for the business ventures previously reported on a three-month
lag basis. Prior to the adoption of this accounting policy, all
of the Company s then current business ventures, with the
exception of PeterStar, had reported their financial results on
a three-month lag. Therefore, the Company s financial
results for the year ended December 31, 2002 includes the
results for those business ventures for the twelve months ended
September 30, 2002.

On September 30, 2003, the Board of Directors formally
approved management s plan to dispose of the remaining
non-core media businesses of the Company. As of
December 31, 2004, the Company had entered into agreements
for the disposition of all non-core media businesses. In
addition, since the first quarter of 2002, the Company had
sought out opportunities to sell other business ventures for the
purpose of improving

111

Table of Contents   

the Company s liquidity position. In light of these events,
the Company had concluded that certain business ventures met the
criteria for classification as discontinued business components
as outlined in SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  and these
business ventures had been presented as such within the
Company s consolidated financial statements.

As discussed in further detail (see   Item 1.
Business   Recent Developments   Restatement
of Prior Year Financial Information 2005 Restatement Work
Effort  ) in June 2005, the Company reached the
conclusion that it needed to restate its previously issued
financial statements for certain accounting errors. Accordingly,
this periodic report reflects the effects of that restatement
effort.

As of December 31, 2004, the PeterStar Group did not meet
the requirements of Paragraph 30 of SFAS No. 144,
  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets   ( SFAS No. 144 ), as such,
the Company has not treated the PeterStar Group as a long-lived
asset held for sale as of December 31, 2004. As such, the
Company has continued to present the PeterStar Group s
results of operations as continuing operations in the
consolidated statements of operations for all years presented.
However, effective in the first quarter of 2005, the PeterStar
Group met the criteria of SFAS No. 144 for
classification as a discontinued component. As a result,
beginning with the Company s quarterly report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2005, the
PeterStar Group will be so accounted for within the
Company s financial statements at that date and
prospectively through the date of disposition.

112

Table of Contents   

Segment Information 

The Company s segment information, including other
unconsolidated operating segments, is set forth for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 in the following
tables (in thousands):

Segment Information 

Year Ended December 31, 2004 

(1)  
     
    Equity in income (losses) of unconsolidated investees reflects
    elimination of intercompany interest expense. 

113

Table of Contents   

Segment Information 

Year Ended December 31, 2003 

(1)  
     
    Equity in (losses) income of unconsolidated investees reflects
    elimination of intercompany interest expense. 

114

Table of Contents   

Segment Information 

Year Ended December 31, 2002 

(1)  
     
    Equity in (losses) income of unconsolidated investees reflects
    elimination of intercompany interest expense. 

The following discussion and analysis relates to the
Company s results of operations of both continuing and
discontinued businesses for each of the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. This discussion

115

Table of Contents   

should be read in conjunction with   Item 6.
Selected Financial Data   and the Consolidated Financial
Statements and the notes related thereto that appear elsewhere
in this document.

Included is a discussion of certain material non-consolidated
operations. The Company believes that this discussion is helpful
to developing an understanding of the factors contributing to
the overall financial condition and results of operations. The
discussion of the results of operations is organized as follows:

Consolidated Results   

Consolidated Results of Operations for the Year Ended
    December 31, 2004 compared to the Consolidated Results of
    Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2003 

Consolidated Results of Operations for the Year Ended
    December 31, 2003 compared to the Consolidated Results of
    Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2002 

Unconsolidated Results   

Unconsolidated Results of Operations for the Year Ended
    December 31, 2004 compared to the Unconsolidated Results of
    Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2003 

Unconsolidated Results of Operations for the Year Ended
    December 31, 2003 compared to the Unconsolidated Results of
    Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2002 

Discontinued Components Results   

Discontinued Components Results of Operations for the Year Ended
    December 31, 2004 compared to the Discontinued Components
    Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2003 

Discontinued Components Results of Operations for the Year Ended
    December 31, 2003 compared to the Discontinued Components
    Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2002 

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED TO THE CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 

PeterStar 

PeterStar is the leading competitive local exchange carrier in
St. Petersburg, Russia. On October 1, 2003, PeterStar
acquired the ownership rights of Baltic Communications Ltd.
( BCL ), a local and long distance telephony operator
in St. Petersburg, Russia. Prior to October 1, 2003, BCL
was an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and
therefore the acquisition of BCL by PeterStar was a transaction
between two companies under common control. Accordingly, the
results of BCL have been combined with PeterStar on a historical
basis for presentation purposes, since PeterStar has accounted
for its acquisition of BCL in a manner similar to the pooling
method of accounting. Subsequent to its acquisition of BCL,
PeterStar successfully integrated BCL s staff and network
with its own operating facilities and shifted BCL s
telephony and data service customers to PeterStar-branded
services. BCL now serves as PeterStar s outlet for pre-paid
calling cards distributed through a network of dealers. Such
pre-paid calling cards are usable for Voice-over-IP
( VoIP ) calling and
 dial-up  Internet access
and can be used in conjunction with any telephone and enable the
user to make VoIP long distance calls or access Internet
services providers. The cards are usable in St. Petersburg,
select Russian cities and in certain foreign countries. As
discussed previously, on August 1, 2005, the Company sold
its economic interest in PeterStar for cash consideration of
$215.0 million.

Since 2003, PeterStar has pursued a strategy of regional
expansion from its initial base of operations in the city of St.
Petersburg. PeterStar opened branch operations in Moscow in 2003
to extend services to those of its St. Petersburg customers
with Moscow business interests. In April 2004, PeterStar
acquired a controlling

116

Table of Contents   

interest in Pskov City Telephone Company, the incumbent fixed
line telephony service provider in the city of Pskov (the
central administrative city of the Northwest Russia regional
district bordering Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia). In September
2004, PeterStar acquired ADM, a leading independent provider of
telephony and IP-based services in the city of Murmansk (a
significant Russian seaport and central city of a Northwest
Russia regional district bordering Finland and Norway). Such
business acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase
method of accounting and the results of operations of these
acquired businesses have been included in the results of
PeterStar s operations since their respective acquisition
dates.

Revenues   

PeterStar revenues increased by $8.6 million (12%) to
$79.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as
compared to $70.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The significant components of revenues
for PeterStar for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2003 are as follows (in thousands):

PeterStar s financial results for the full-year 2004 were
favorably affected by the strengthening of the Russian Ruble,
PeterStar s functional currency, against the
U.S. Dollar. The Russian Ruble average exchange rate
against the U.S. Dollar for the full-year 2004 increased by
6% compared to the average exchange rate of the Russian Ruble
against the U.S. Dollar for the full-year 2003. Until
September 30, 2003, PeterStar s functional currency
was the U.S. Dollar, because it reflected the economic
substance of the underlying events and circumstances of
PeterStar. On October 1, 2003, the Company determined that
a change in the currency in which PeterStar determined
customers  bills required it to reevaluate its operations
and, as a result, it concluded that as of that date, the
functional currency should change from the U.S. Dollar to
the Russian Ruble.

PeterStar markets to both large businesses with complex or high
capacity voice and data communications requirements and often
significant internal as well as public access communications
needs; and to small and medium scale businesses whose
requirements may be less demanding. This market is highly
competitive and the customers are generally discerning in their
selection of price, service and quality mix. Customer loyalty
can be maintained, especially among larger business customers,
only through aggressive customer care and continued high quality
at competitive prices. Maintenance and continued growth of
Business fixed telephony revenues is central to PeterStar s
marketing programs and it has introduced a variety of
competitive tariff and service arrangements to ensure the
continued satisfaction of current business customers and
attractiveness to new customers.

Business fixed revenues grew $3.3 million to
$41.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as
compared to $37.7 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The growth in Business fixed revenues
was principally due to PeterStar s continued focus in 2004
on marketing to its Business fixed customers a flat fee monthly
pricing structure, as compared with usage based contractual
arrangements. PeterStar introduced a flat fee monthly pricing
structure in 2001 in an effort to eliminate low monthly fee
lease line customers and to free up the associated numbering
capacity for the benefit of higher revenue volume customers.
This marketing strategy had initially led to high
customer-churn; however in 2004, PeterStar s customer churn
stabilized and as a result of this strategy PeterStar has
removed significant customer revenue volatility and increased
its customer base for other high band-width intensive product
offerings. PeterStar has marketed its high-speed digital fiber
network to business customers, in lieu of its traditional copper
telephone infrastructure. In 2004,

117

Table of Contents   

PeterStar achieved a 96% new customer connectivity rate for
direct connections on its owned telecommunications
infrastructure, versus an 86% new customer connectivity rate in
2003.

Data and internet revenues grew $4.5 million to
$20.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as
compared to $16.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. PeterStar s continued focus on the
fast-growing Data and internet services product market resulted
in significant increases in both revenues and subscribers.
PeterStar s Data and internet service product revenue
stream is comprised of leased circuits,
 dial-up  subscriber and
interconnect based capacity of other Internet service providers
for these promising service offerings. Included in the Data and
internet revenues for the full-year 2004 were $0.9 million
of revenues contributed by businesses acquired by PeterStar. Due
to acquisitions, PeterStar almost doubled the number of
 dial-up  data service
subscribers. Absent such acquisitions, PeterStar experienced a
22.4% growth in Data and internet revenues. In 2004, PeterStar
initiated provision of wireless Internet access (WiFi) at
 hotspots  located in heavily frequented commercial
locations. Business proprietors in such locations can offer
their customers wireless connection to the Internet via suitably
equipped portable personal computers and similar data processing
appliances.

Carrier services revenues decreased $1.0 million to
$8.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as
compared to $9.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. Although not customers in the
conventional sense, PeterStar maintains commercial relationships
with other telephony and IP-based operators for the purpose of
exchanging traffic with these other operators and recognizes
transit carrier services revenues. These operators pay PeterStar
to terminate traffic from their subscribers on PeterStar s
network. Conversely, PeterStar pays these operators to arrange
termination of PeterStar customer traffic at remote destinations
on the other operators  network.

Regulated services revenues grew $2.6 million to
$6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as
compared to $4.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The growth in Regulated services
revenues was principally attributable to the inclusion of Pskov
City Telephone Network ( Pskov Telecom ) revenues,
which was acquired by PeterStar in April 2004. Pskov Telecom
contributed $2.0 million to 2004 revenues. Regulated
services revenues also include Vasilievsky Island, which
represents an area of St. Petersburg where PeterStar provides
principally residential telephony services. Revenues in
Vasilievsky Island increased $0.6 million in 2004,
principally due to a tariff increase effective October 1,
2004. The revenues related to Vasilievsky Island are based on
fixed government regulated tariffs by the Russian regulatory
authority so as to be the same as rates offered elsewhere by
other Russian carriers. Although these residential service
tariffs are considerably lower than those charged to
PeterStar s business customers, PeterStar management
believes that its residential voice telephony customer base
represents a significant opportunity for sale of value-added and
non-regulated Internet-based and VoIP services.

Equipment and other revenues decreased $1.0 million to
$2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as
compared to $3.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. PeterStar offers premises-based
equipment to its business customers. Such equipment supports a
variety of high-function forms of interconnection with
PeterStar s voice telephony and data service, as well as
supporting a customer s internal voice and data
communication systems. PeterStar also offers business customers
planning and engineering services connected with arrangement of
the customer s overall communication system. Although these
sales and services do not make up a material part of overall
revenues, PeterStar s ability to sell and service
premises-based systems in conjunction with its wide range of
public access telephony and data services positions PeterStar as
a one-stop, full-service provider to its business customers.

Cost of services.   

Cost of services increased $3.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2003. Revenues less cost of services, as a
percentage of revenues ( Margin Percentage ),
decreased slightly from 67% in 2003 to 66% in 2004. PeterStar
has been able to maintain such Margin Percentage primarily due
to better utilization of its telecommunications network and the
reduction of lower Margin transit carrier revenues on a
year-over-year basis. In addition, Regulated Services Margin
Percentage

118

Table of Contents   

increased, as Pskov Telecom Margin Percentages are higher than
those historically recognized at PeterStar. Such increase in the
Margin Percentage was fully offset by lower Margin Percentages
on long distance traffic, which is traditionally low Margin
Percentage. Even though long distance traffic volume is
increasing, the Margin Percentages are contracting due to
competitive pressures on tariffs charged to customers.
Furthermore, PeterStar s interconnection costs have also
increased, which is another factor that has caused
PeterStar s Margin Percentage to remain relatively flat. As
discussed previously, PeterStar has had success in marketing the
use of its digital fiber network to its customer base, which
management expects will halt the erosion of its Margin
Percentage in the short-term as PeterStar should be able to
reduce its payments of third-party access fees associated with
its historical reliance upon leased copper line telephone
infrastructure.

An important factor relative to the Margin Percentages is
PeterStar s reliance upon contracts for provision of
services with OAO Telecominvest ( Telecominvest ) and
its affiliates (the  Telecominvest Related parties ).
Telecominvest is the Company s minority shareholder in
PeterStar. On August 1, 2005, the Company sold its interest
in PeterStar to First National, Emergent and Pisces. These
companies share common ownership with Telecominvest. Such
services amounted to $13.8 million and $15.3 million
for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. Such amounts represent 52% and 65% of cost of
services for PeterStar for the years December 31, 2004 and
2003, respectively. Thus, any changes to contractual terms with
Telecominvest and the Telecominvest Related Parties could have a
material affect on future Margin Percentages of PeterStar.

Selling, general and administrative.   

PeterStar selling, general and administrative expenses increased
by $4.5 million (32%) to $18.6 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004 as compared to $14.1 million
for the year ended December 31, 2003.

The significant components of selling, general and
administrative expenses for PeterStar for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows (in thousands):

PeterStar s selling, general and administrative expenses
for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased principally
due to $2.1 million of expenses incurred at business
ventures that PeterStar acquired in 2004 that were not included
in 2003. Also, PeterStar increased its average number of
employees in 2004 by 7% as compared to 2003 and provided wage
increases, which resulted in a $1.3 million increase in
personnel related costs. Office related costs increased
principally due to rents of additional space and an increase in
maintenance costs. PeterStar experienced a slight increase in
taxes other than income, offset by a $0.4 million VAT
refund as a result of a court case that PeterStar won during
2004. In addition, during the fourth quarter 2004 and 2003,
PeterStar wrote off obsolete inventory totaling
$0.7 million and $0.1 million, respectively.

119

Table of Contents   

Depreciation and amortization.   

PeterStar depreciation and amortization expense increased by
$2.8 million to $23.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 as compared to $20.3 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003. This includes
$6.7 million and $6.6 million of license amortization
allocated from corporate headquarters for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

This increase in depreciation and amortization expense is due to
PeterStar s continued investment to expand and upgrade its
network infrastructure, thereby creating an increase in the
fixed asset depreciable base when compared to the prior year.

With the exception of the allocated license amortization,
management expects that such trend will continue until cessation
of depreciation upon classification of PeterStar as a
discontinued component in the first quarter of 2005. During the
fourth quarter of 2004, the allocated license became fully
amortized.

Corporate and Other Consolidated Results 

Other consolidated results principally include the activities of
the corporate headquarters, which relate to executive,
administrative, logistical and business venture support
activities. Also included are the results of Ayety, a cable
television provider in Tbilisi, Georgia. Since the
Company s U.S. GAAP investment in Ayety is zero and
the Company has no obligation to fund its current operations,
the Company does not deem Ayety s current financial
performance to be material. In addition, the Company is involved
in a number of commercial and legal disputes with the 15%
minority shareholder of Ayety. The result of which is that the
Company no longer controls the day-to-day business affairs of
Ayety and has been unable to prepare U.S. GAAP financial
statements of Ayety subsequent to June 30, 2004 since the
Company no longer has access to the statutory accounting records
of Ayety. ( See Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings   Legal Matters with
Mtatsminda    International Telcell SPS vs
Mtatsminda ).  As the Company has not been able to
prepare U.S. GAAP financial statements of Ayety subsequent to
June 30, 2004, the Company has only included the results of
the six-month statement of operations of Ayety within its
consolidated financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 2004. Ayety recognized consolidated revenues
of $1.4 million and $2.5 million for the six months
ended June 30, 2004 and year ended December 31, 2003,
respectively. Ayety incurred consolidated selling general and
administrative expenses of $1.2 million and
$2.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2004
and year ended December 31, 2003, respectively. Ayety
incurred consolidated depreciation and amortization of
$0.2 million and $0.5 million for the six months ended
June 30, 2004 and year ended December 31, 2003,
respectively. Following is a discussion of corporate activities.

Selling, general and administrative.   

Corporate selling, general and administrative expenses decreased
$3.9 million (13%) to $25.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 as compared to $29.4 million for the
prior year.

120

Table of Contents   

The significant components of corporate selling, general and
administrative expenses for the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2003 are as follows (in thousands):

The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses is
primarily due to the Company s restructuring initiatives
and actions to substantially down-size the Company s
corporate headquarters personnel, substantially offset by the
Company s recognition of a $7.5 million charge in the
fourth quarter of 2004 associated with the termination of the
Georgian Government MOU and higher professional services fees.

The $3.1 million and $3.0 million year-over-year
decrease in severance and retention expenses and personnel
related costs, respectively, reflect the impact of the
Company s 2003 Restructuring initiatives. The severance and
retention expenses of $0.6 million and $3.7 million in
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively
was principally attributable to severance that was paid to
corporate personnel based on retention agreements that certain
employees had entered into with the Company due to the
initiative set forth in the 2003 Restructuring.

In February 2005, the Company, along with its partner in
Magticom entered an agreement with the Georgian government that
terminated the Georgian Government MOU. Accordingly, the Company
recognized a $7.5 million obligation in the fourth quarter
of 2004 to reflect the Company s pro rata portion of such
obligation.

Professional services decreased $0.8 million principally
related to legal fees. Had the Company not established a
$3.0 million accrual in the fourth quarter of 2004 for
contingent legal fees attributable to the Fuqua shareholder
litigation, professional services expense would have decreased
significantly. The $3.0 million accrual for the Fuqua
shareholder litigation represents the Company s adjustment
to its estimated defendant indemnification cost reserve, to
reflect the estimated costs that the Company anticipates that it
will have paid to the respective defendant s legal counsel,
from the period January 1, 2005 through the settlement of
the litigation in April 2006 (see   Item 3. Legal
Proceedings   Fuqua Industries, Inc. Shareholder
Litigation  ).

The $1.1 million for the estimated early termination cost
for closing the Company s former corporate offices in New
York City in the fourth quarter of 2003 is a result of the
Company s relocation of its corporate headquarters to
Charlotte, North Carolina. In addition, in the fourth quarter of
2004, the Company was able to settle the obligation with the New
York City landlord at a discount of $0.2 million.

The reduction in office related costs and other expenses is
principally due to the Company s reduced cost structure
resulting from its 2003 Restructuring initiatives.

The restructuring related professional services fees of
$1.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 is a
result of the Company s engagement of professional advisors
to assist the Company with the marketing, negotiation and
structuring of a strategic transaction, which resulted in the
disposal of the Company s interest

121

Table of Contents   

in PeterStar. The professional advisory restructuring fees of
approximately $2.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003 are attributable to the Company s
2003 Restructuring initiatives.

The Company anticipates that the costs that it will incur to
meet its SOX 404 requirements will be very substantial in fiscal
year 2006, 2007 and beyond. The Company has recently retained
additional finance personnel, both fulltime and
consultants/contractors, to assist the Company in meeting its
SOX 404 compliance requirements. The Company is very concerned
with its ability to meet SOX 404 compliance requirements and the
accelerated time frame for filing its periodic reports with the
SEC. At present, the Company does not expect any significant
reductions in recurring corporate overhead expense run-rate for
the foreseeable future; however, the Company remains attentive
in containing and evaluating opportunities to further reduce
corporate overhead costs.

Due to the uncertainties attributable to the costs that the
Company will need to incur in future periods to effectively
address its financial accounting, reporting and disclosure
material weaknesses and its initiatives to settle certain of its
Historic Corporate Liabilities related to employee benefit
obligations, the Company is not currently able to provide clear
guidance as to its expected corporate overhead expenses and
respective corporate cash outlays over the next twelve months.

Equity in income (losses) of unconsolidated
    investees.   

Equity in income (losses) of unconsolidated business ventures
was income of $15.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 as compared to income of
$9.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The
increase is principally the result of the favorable
year-over-year operating performance of Magticom. For further
information on the ventures reported under the equity method,
refer to the   Unconsolidated Results   section.

Interest expense, net.   

Interest expense, net decreased $1.7 million to
$16.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as
compared to $17.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The decrease is principally due to the
$58.6 million reduction of the outstanding Senior Notes as
a result of the Adamant transaction on April 24, 2003. The
Company expects a significant reduction in the prospective
interest expense as the remaining Senior Notes were redeemed on
August 8, 2005.

Gain on retirement of debt.   

On April 24, 2003, the Company completed an exchange with
Adamant Advisory Services of certain business ventures for,
among other things, $58.6 million aggregate principal
amount of the Company s Senior Notes. The Company
recognized a gain of $24.6 million related to the early
extinguishment of the exchanged Senior Notes.

Gain on disposition of equity investee business
    ventures.   

Gain on disposition of equity investee business ventures was
$13.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
Such gains on dispositions consist principally of Teleplus on
November 21, 2003 ($0.7 million), Tyumenruskom on
September 24, 2003 ($2.5 million) and Baltcom TV on
August 1, 2003 ($9.9 million).

Minority interest.   

Minority interest represents the allocation of income and losses
by the Company s majority owned subsidiaries and business
ventures to its minority ownership interest. Minority interest
decreased by

122

Table of Contents   

$1.1 million to $3.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 as compared to $4.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003. The minority interest amount
relates to the operations of PeterStar.

Income tax expense.   

Income tax expense decreased by $2.0 million to
$4.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as
compared to $6.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The income tax expense in 2004 and 2003
is principally from foreign income taxes on the operations of
PeterStar and foreign taxes withheld from dividends received by
the Company.

Income (loss) from discontinued components.   

Income from discontinued components was $6.6 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to
$10.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. In
addition to the net losses from the operations of the
discontinued ventures of $0.5 million in 2004 and
$0.3 million in 2003, as further discussed in the section
titled   Results of Discontinued Components Operations
for the Year Ended December 31, 2004 compared to the
Results of Discontinued Components Operations for the Year Ended
December 31, 2003,   the Company recognized gains
and losses on the dispositions of certain components in 2004 and
2003, as well as other activity associated with the discontinued
ventures.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company
recognized a gain of $5.2 million related to the sale of
Romsat, a gain of $0.5 million related to the sale of ATK,
a gain of $0.3 million related to the sale of Radio Skonto
and a gain of $0.1 million associated with the sale of the
Radio Group. In addition, the Company recognized a gain of
$0.5 million related to the settlement of the remaining
severance obligations and other liabilities of the discontinued
components.

During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company
recognized a gain of $7.2 million associated with sale of
the Company s Russian radio businesses in the Adamant
transaction, a gain of $2.8 million related the sale of
Technocom and a gain of $0.7 million for the final
settlement for the sale of Snapper.

Cumulative effect of changes in accounting
    principles.   

The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of
$2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003
represents the effect of the Company changing its accounting
policy to recognize the results of operations of business
ventures that were previously reported on a three-month lag to a
real time basis.

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED TO THE CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 

PeterStar 

On October 1, 2003, PeterStar acquired the ownership rights
of BCL. Prior to October 1, 2003, BCL was an indirect
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and therefore the
acquisition of BCL by PeterStar was a transaction between two
companies under common control. Accordingly, the results of BCL
have been combined with PeterStar on a historical basis for
presentation purposes, since PeterStar has accounted for its
acquisition of BCL in a manner similar to the pooling method of
accounting. As discussed previously, on August 1, 2005, the
Company sold its economic interest in PeterStar.

123

Table of Contents   

Revenues.   

PeterStar revenues increased by $7.7 million (12%) to
$70.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to $62.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. The significant components of revenues
for PeterStar for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002 are as follows (in thousands):

PeterStar s financial results for the full-year 2003 were
favorably affected by the strengthening of the Russian Ruble
PeterStar s functional currency, against the
U.S. Dollar. On October 1, 2003, PeterStar changed
functional currency from the U.S. Dollar to the Russian
Ruble. The Russian Ruble average exchange rate against the
U.S. dollar for the full-year 2003 increased by 2% compared
to the average exchange rate of the Russian Ruble against the
U.S. dollar for the full-year 2002.

Business fixed revenues grew $1.4 million to
$37.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to $36.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. The growth in Business fixed revenues
was principally due to PeterStar s continued focus in 2003
on marketing to its Business fixed customers a flat fee monthly
pricing structure, as compared with usage based contractual
arrangements. PeterStar introduced a flat fee monthly pricing
structure in 2001 in an effort to eliminate low monthly fee
lease line customers and to free up the associated numbering
capacity for the benefit of higher revenue volume customers.
This marketing strategy had initially led to high
customer-churn; however in 2004, PeterStar s customer churn
stabilized and as a result of this strategy PeterStar has
removed significant customer revenue volatility and increased
its customer base for other high band-width intensive product
offerings. PeterStar has marketed its high-speed digital fiber
network to business customers, in lieu of its traditional copper
telephone infrastructure. In 2003, PeterStar achieved an 86% new
customer connectivity rate for direct connections on its owned
telecommunications infrastructure, versus a 64% new customer
connectivity rate in 2002.

Data and internet revenues grew $3.5 million to
$16.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to $12.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. PeterStar s continued focus on the
fast-growing Data and internet services product market resulted
in significant increases in both revenues and subscribers.
PeterStar s Data and internet service product revenue
stream is comprised of leased circuits,
 dial-up  subscriber and
interconnect based capacity of other Internet service providers
for these promising services product offerings.

Carrier services revenues grew $1.7 million to
$9.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to $7.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. Equipment and other revenues increased
$0.6 million to $3.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003 as compared to $2.9 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002. Although these sales and
services do not make up a material part of overall revenues,
PeterStar s ability to sell and service premises-based
systems in conjunction with its wide range of public access
telephony and data services positions PeterStar as a one-stop,
full-service provider to its business customers. PeterStar does
not anticipate that this revenue stream will grow significantly
in future periods.

Regulated services revenues grew $0.6 million to
$4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to $3.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. The growth in Regulated services
revenues was principally attributable to Vasilievsky Island,
which represents an area of St. Petersburg where PeterStar
provides principally residential telephony services. Revenues in
Vasilievsky Island increased $0.5 million in 2003,
principally due to a tariff increase effective July 1,
2003. The revenues related to Vasilievsky Island are

124

Table of Contents   

based on fixed government regulated tariffs. PeterStar s
residential telephony tariffs are set by the Russian regulatory
authority so as to be the same as rates offered elsewhere by
other Russian telecommunications carriers.

Cost of services.   

Cost of services increased $4.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2002. Revenues less cost of services, as a
percentage of revenues ( Margin Percentage ),
decreased from 69% to 67% for the year ended December 31,
2003 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002. The
decrease in Margin Percentage is primarily due to lower margins
on long distance traffic, which is traditionally low margin.
Even though long distance traffic volume is increasing, the
margin percentages are contracting due to competitive pressures
on tariffs charged to customers. Furthermore, PeterStar s
interconnection costs have also increased, which is another
factor that has caused PeterStar s Margin Percentage to
decline.

Overall, the BCL business contributed favorably to
year-over-year fixed telephony Margin Percentage due to a change
in BCL s product mix; that is, BCL had low margin transit
traffic being replaced by high margin data revenues
year-over-year.

An important factor relative to the Margin Percentages is
PeterStar s reliance upon contracts for provision of
services with OAO Telecominvest ( TCI ) and its
affiliates (the  TCI Related parties ). TCI is the
Company s minority shareholder in PeterStar. Such services
amounted to $15.3 million and $12.4 million for the
years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Such
amounts represent 65% of cost of services for PeterStar for the
years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. Thus, any changes
to contractual terms with TCI and the TCI Related Parties could
have a material affect on future Margin Percentages of PeterStar.

Selling, general and administrative.   

PeterStar selling, general and administrative expenses decreased
by $2.9 million (17%) to $14.1 million for the year
ended December 31, 2003 as compared to $17.0 million
for the year ended December 31, 2002.

The significant components of selling, general and
administrative expenses for PeterStar for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002 are as follows (in thousands):

PeterStar s selling, general and administrative expenses
for the year ended December 31, 2003 decreased principally
due to a $2.0 million decrease in management fees, a
$0.4 million decrease in marketing expenses and a
$0.4 million decrease in taxes other than income.
Management fees are fees paid to the Company and TCI. The fees
paid to the Company eliminate in consolidation. In addition, the
Company was able to reduce certain duplicative costs, including
a reduction in personnel costs and overhead incurred at BCL as a
result of PeterStar s acquisition of BCL on October 1,
2003.

125

Table of Contents   

Asset impairment charge.   

The fixed telephony business segment incurred an asset
impairment charge of $1.4 million in 2002 associated with
the BCL business. This charge resulted from the Company s
analysis that indicated that the carrying value of BCL s
property and equipment exceeded the projected discounted cash
flows of BCL. There was no such charge recorded in 2003.

Depreciation and amortization.   

PeterStar depreciation and amortization expense increased by
$1.5 million to $20.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003 as compared to $18.8 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002. This includes
$6.6 million of license amortization each year allocated
from corporate headquarters.

This growth in depreciation and amortization expense is due to
the increase in investment to expand and upgrade the PeterStar
network infrastructure, thereby creating an increase in the
fixed asset depreciable base when compared to the prior year.
Such increase was partially offset by the impairment of certain
BCL fixed assets as of December 31, 2002, thereby creating
a reduction in its fixed asset depreciable base for 2003 when
compared to prior year.

With the exception of the allocated license amortization of
$6.6 million, management expects that such trend will
continue until cessation of depreciation upon classification of
PeterStar as a discontinued component in the first quarter of
2005. During the fourth quarter of 2004, the allocated license
became fully amortized.

Corporate and Other Consolidated Results 

Other consolidated results principally include the activities of
the corporate headquarters, which relate to executive,
administrative, logistical and business venture support
activities. Also included are the results of Ayety, a cable
television provider in Tbilisi, Georgia. Since the
Company s U.S. GAAP investment in Ayety is zero and
the Company has no obligation to fund its current operations,
the Company does not deem Ayety s financial performance to
be material. In addition, the Company is involved in a number of
commercial and legal disputes with the 15% minority shareholder.
The result of which is that the Company no longer controls the
day-to-day business affairs of Ayety and has been unable to
prepare U.S. GAAP financial information of Ayety subsequent to
June 30, 2004  (see Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings   Legal Matters with
Mtatsminda    International Telcell SPS vs
Mtatsminda ).  Ayety recognized consolidated revenues of
$2.5 million and $2.4 million for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Ayety incurred
consolidated selling general and administrative expenses of
$2.3 million and $2.1 million for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Ayety incurred
consolidated depreciation and amortization of $0.5 million
and $0.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2003
and 2002, respectively. Ayety recognized an impairment charge
related to long-lived assets totaling $5.5 million during
the year ended December 31, 2002. Following is a discussion
of corporate activities.

Selling, general and administrative.   

Corporate selling, general and administrative expenses increased
$1.7 million (6%) to $29.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003 as compared to $27.7 million for the
prior year.

126

Table of Contents   

The significant components of corporate selling, general and
administrative expenses for the years ended December 31,
2003 and 2002 are as follows (in thousands):

The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was
due to the incurrence of additional professional fees attributed
principally to the Company s restructuring initiatives and
severance related expenses due to the Company s actions to
substantially down-size the Company s corporate
headquarters personnel in the first of quarter 2003. The Company
recognized severance related charges of $3.7 million in the
year ended December 31, 2003 and incurred incremental,
restructuring-related professional and outside consulting fees
of $1.0 million on a year over year basis. In addition, the
Company recognized a $1.1 million one-time expense
associated with exiting the Company s New York City office
facilities during 2003. These incremental costs were partially
offset by reduced payroll and related benefits as well as a
reduction in overall discretionary spending in the amount of
$4.1 million as a result of the Company s downsizing
efforts.

Depreciation and amortization.   

Depreciation and amortization decreased $1.4 million to
$0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to $1.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. This decrease was principally related to
the impairment of certain intangibles in the fourth quarter of
2002, which had been recorded at the corporate level.

Equity in income (losses) of unconsolidated
    investees.   

Equity in income (losses) of unconsolidated business ventures
was income of $9.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003 as compared to a loss of
$23.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.
The increase is principally the result of a $27.3 million
charge to earnings in 2002 for the Company s investments in
Comstar and Kosmos TV during the year ended December 31,
2002 and the favorable year-over-year operating performance of
Magticom. For further information on the ventures reported under
the equity method, refer to the   Unconsolidated
Results   section.

Interest expense, net.   

Interest expense, net decreased $3.2 million to
$17.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to $21.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. Interest expense is principally
attributable to interest of the Senior Notes and debt incurred
at PeterStar. The decrease is principally due to the reduction
of the outstanding Senior Notes as a result of the Adamant
transaction.

Gain on retirement of debt.   

On April 24, 2003, the Company completed an exchange with
Adamant Advisory Services of certain business ventures for,
among other things, $58.6 million aggregate principal
amount of the Company s Senior

127

Table of Contents   

Notes. The Company recognized a gain of $24.6 million
related to the early extinguishment of the exchanged Senior
Notes.

Gain on disposition of equity investee business
    ventures.   

Gain on disposition of equity investee business ventures was
$13.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to a gain of $5.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002.

For 2003, such gains on dispositions consist principally of
Teleplus on November 21, 2003 ($0.7 million),
Tyumenruskom on September 24, 2003 ($2.5 million) and
Baltcom TV on August 1, 2003 ($9.9 million).

For 2002, such gains on dispositions consist principally of Alma
TV on May 24, 2002 ($1.7 million), CIBBV/BELCEL on
July 25, 2002 ($1.3 million) and OMCL/ CAT on
August 27, 2002 ($2.4 million).

Minority interest.   

Minority interest represents the allocation of income and losses
by the Company s majority owned subsidiaries and business
ventures to its minority ownership interest.

Minority interest increased by $1.8 million to
$4.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to $2.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. The minority interest amount relates to
the operations of PeterStar.

Income tax expense.   

Income tax expense increased by $5.2 million to
$6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to $1.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. The income tax expense in 2003 and 2002
is principally from foreign income taxes on the operations of
PeterStar. In 2002, these taxes were partially offset by the
recognition of $4.4 million in tax refunds at the corporate
level related to alternative minimum tax ( AMT )
carrybacks. A March 2002 tax law change permitted the Company to
carry back certain AMT losses generated in 2001 and 2002 to
recapture amounts previously paid for AMT.

Income (loss) from discontinued components.   

Income from discontinued components was $10.3 million for
the year ended December 31, 2003 as compared to a loss of
$36.3 million of the year ended December 31, 2002. In
addition to the net losses from the operations of the
discontinued ventures of $0.3 million in 2003 and
$34.0 million in 2002, as further discussed in the section
titled   Results of Discontinued Components Operations
for the Year Ended December 31, 2003 compared to the
Results of Discontinued Components Operations for the Year Ended
December 31, 2002,   the Company recognized gains
and losses on the dispositions of certain components in 2003 and
2002, as well as other activity associated with the discontinued
ventures.

During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company
recognized a gain of $7.2 million associated with sale of
the Company s Russian radio businesses in the Adamant
transaction, a gain of $2.8 million related to the sale of
Technocom and a gain of $0.7 million for the final
settlement for the sale of Snapper.

During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company
recognized a loss of $10.1 million associated with the sale
of Snapper. In addition, the Company recognized income of
$4.9 million and $3.1 million related to the
settlement of certain claims of a former business venture and
tax refunds, including related interest, relating to carry-back
claims for previously disposed businesses, respectively.

128

Table of Contents   

Cumulative effect of changes in accounting
    principles.   

The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of
$2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003
represents the effect of the Company changing its accounting
policy to recognize the results of operations of business
ventures that were previously reported on a three-month lag to a
real time basis. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle of $1.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002 was due to the adoption of
SFAS No. 142, which resulted in a transitional
impairment charge at BCL.

UNCONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED TO THE UNCONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 

Magticom 

Magticom is the leading mobile telephony operator in Tbilisi,
Georgia, in which the Company presently owns a 50.1% ownership
interest, operates a wireless communications network and markets
mobile voice communication services to private and commercial
users nationwide in the country of Georgia. Magticom s
network offers services using GSM standards in both the 900 Mhz
and 1800 Mhz spectrum range. Prior to mid-February 2005, the
Company had a 34.5% ownership interest in Magticom. As a result
of the restructuring of the Company s ownership interest in
Magticom in February 2005, the Company is able to exert
operational oversight over Magticom. However, the Company has
determined that its ownership interest in Magticom (through its
holding company structure), as a result of the ownership
restructurings that occurred in February 2005 and September
2005, should still be accounted for following the equity method
of accounting.

Revenues.   

Revenues at Magticom increased by $30.0 million (42%) to
$102.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004
compared to $72.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003, due principally to strong customer
demand. The significant components of revenues for Magticom for
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows
(in thousands):

Magticom s financial results for the full-year 2004 were
favorably affected by the strengthening of the Georgian Lari,
Magticom s functional currency, against the
U.S. Dollar. The Georgian Lari average exchange rate
against the U.S. dollar for the full-year 2004 increased by
11% compared to the average exchange rate of the Georgian Lari
against the U.S. dollar for the full-year 2003.

Magticom is the market leader in Georgia, based on both revenues
and number of subscribers, and anticipates further increases in
its subscriber base as it continues to penetrate a market that
currently has low telephone density rates. Average revenue per
subscriber ( ARPU ) was favorably affected by the
strengthening of the Georgian Lari against the U.S. Dollar.
Lari calculated ARPU decreased 10.6% for the year ended
December 31, 2004, which reflects the ARPU trend since Lari
calculated ARPU peaked in the third quarter of 2003. Magticom
anticipates that its Lari calculated ARPU will continue to
decline in future periods due to both competitive pressures on
pricing of services but also due to Magticom s further
penetration of the

129

Table of Contents   

addressable market; that is, new customers are anticipated to
have lower usage than Magticom s existing customer base.

Inbound revenues reflect revenues that Magticom earns as a
result of its termination of other telephone service
providers  traffic on Magticom s telecommunications
network. The significant growth in inbound revenues in 2004 as
compared to 2003 principally reflects a change in the
contractual arrangement related to an interconnect arrangement
with another mobile telephone service provider in Tbilisi,
Georgia. Effective October 1, 2004, Magticom began
processing monthly invoices to the mobile telephone service
provider based on its termination of traffic on Magticom s
telecommunication network and as a result Magticom recognized
inbound revenues of $3.3 million. Prior to October 1,
2004, Magticom s arrangement with the other mobile
telephone service provider provided for the termination of
traffic on each other s network would be at no cost, unless
certain net traffic volume thresholds were exceeded. Magticom
anticipates further growth in inbound revenues in future periods.

Roaming revenues are based on Magticom subscribers originating
calls using their Magticom-equipped mobile telephone in a
territory not directly serviced by Magticom. Magticom bills its
subscribers an international roaming premium on a per-minute
basis for calls made while abroad. Given the nature of this
revenue stream, which is dependent upon Magticom users traveling
abroad and utilizing their respective Magticom-equipped mobile
telephone, predicting future revenue levels is difficult.

Cost of services.   

Cost of services at Magticom increased by $5.7 million in
the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the year
ended December 31, 2003, due principally to the
aforementioned change in the contractual interconnect
arrangement with another mobile telephone service provider in
Tbilisi, Georgia. Effective October 1, 2004, Magticom began
receiving monthly invoices from the mobile telephone service
provider based on Magticom s termination of its traffic on
the telecommunications network of such service provider and as a
result Magticom recorded interconnect cost for the services of
$3.5 million. Pro-forma cost of services as a percentage of
revenue, after removing the accounting effects for the
aforementioned change in the contractual interconnect
arrangement with the other mobile telephone service provider,
declined in the fourth quarter and full-year 2004 as compared to
the same period in 2003. Magticom s position as a market
leader has allowed it to maintain its subscriber margins.

Selling, general and administrative.   

The significant components of selling, general and
administrative expenses for Magticom for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows (in thousands):

The increase in Magticom s selling, general and
administrative expenses is attributable to an increase in
personnel costs in the year ended December 31, 2004 of
$2.3 million as compared to 2003. The increase in personnel
costs reflects an overall increase in personnel by 35% during
2004 compared to 2003 and the implementation of a wage increase
program that benefited several employees, effective January 2004.

130

Table of Contents   

Depreciation and amortization.   

Magticom s depreciation and amortization increased by
$1.6 million from $12.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003 to $14.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 primarily due to the increase in the
average exchange rate of the Georgian Lari against the
U.S. dollar. Depreciation and amortization expense on a
Georgian Lari basis remained flat as certain assets became fully
depreciated during 2004 offset by additions.

Other Unconsolidated and Disposed Businesses 

The Company has ownership in certain business ventures accounted
for on the equity method of accounting that are not material to
the Company s operations. In addition, the Company had
ownership interests in certain fixed telephony, wireless
telephony and cable television business ventures accounted for
on the equity method of accounting, in which the Company has
disposed its interest by December 31, 2004. A summary of
these entities and their operations are as follows:

Fixed Telephony   

Unconsolidated fixed telephony is comprised of the
Company s 30% minority ownership interest in Telecom
Georgia, which is an international and long distance telephony
provider in the country of Georgia. Since the Company s
U.S. GAAP investment was zero and there has been no
obligation to fund operations, the Company has not recorded any
share of the losses of Telecom Georgia since December 31,
2003. However, as discussed previously, on February 11,
2005, the Company acquired an additional 51% interest in Telecom
Georgia for $5.0 million, and as a result, the Company has
the ability to exert operational oversight over Telecom Georgia.
Furthermore, effective May 23, 2005, Telecom Georgia will
be accounted for following the  consolidation method of
accounting  within the Company s consolidated
financial statements since Telecom Georgia had met the criteria
of the Company s consolidation accounting policy. In July
2006, the Company consummated a series of transactions
associated with its ownership interest in Telecom Georgia. As a
result of these transactions, the Company s ownership
interest in Telecom Georgia decreased to 20.7% and is now held
through various U.S. based holding companies in which the
Company has the controlling interest, thereby enabling the
Company to continue to exercise operational oversight and also
consolidation accounting with respect to Telecom Georgia.
Further, in October 2006, the Company, through
International T LLC, an intermediary holding company
in which the Company has a 25.6% economic ownership interest,
acquired the 19% ownership interest held by Bulcom in Telecom
Georgia, thereby increasing the Company s economic interest
in Telecom Georgia to 25.6%. During the year ended
December 31, 2003, fixed telephony was also comprised of
Comstar, MTR Svyaz and Teleport-TP. The Company disposed of its
interests in Comstar on April 24, 2003 and its interests in
MTR Svyaz and Teleport-TP on June 25, 2003.

Other Wireless Telephony   

The Company owned 46% of Tyumenruskom, which operates and
markets communication services in the Tyumen region of Russia
utilizing a D-AMPS telephony infrastructure. The Company
disposed of its interest in Tyumenruskom on September 24,
2003.

Cable Television   

Unconsolidated cable television is comprised of Cosmos TV, a
cable television provider in Minsk, Belarus in which the Company
owned a 50% interest. The Company disposed of its interest in
Cosmos TV in March 2004. In addition, unconsolidated cable
television is comprised of the Company s 85% ownership
interest in Ayety, which prior to June 30, 2004 was
accounted for following the consolidation method of accounting.
Currently, the Company is involved in a number of commercial and
legal disputes with the 15% minority shareholder. The result of
which, is that the Company no longer controls the
 day-to -day business
affairs of Ayety and has been unable to prepare U.S. GAAP
financial information of Ayety, subsequent to June 30,
2004, to include within its consolidated financial statements.
As such, any year-over-year analysis of Cable

131

Table of Contents   

Television results would be affected by this change in
accounting. Furthermore, the Company does not deem its Cable
Television financial performance to be material.

UNCONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED TO THE UNCONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 

Magticom 

Magticom is the leading mobile telephony operator in Tbilisi,
Georgia, in which the Company presently owns a 50.1% ownership
interest, operates a wireless communications network and markets
mobile voice communication services to private and commercial
users nationwide in the country of Georgia. Magticom s
network offers services using GSM standards in both the
900 Mhz and 1800 Mhz spectrum range. Prior to
mid-February 2005, the Company had a 34.5% ownership interest in
Magticom.

Revenues.   

Revenues at Magticom increased by $25.5 million (55%) to
$72.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003
compared to $46.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. The significant components of revenues
for Magticom for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002
are as follows (in thousands):

Magticom s financial results for the full-year 2003 were
favorably affected by the strengthening of the Georgian Lari,
Magticom s functional currency, against the
U.S. Dollar. On April 1, 2003, Magticom changed
functional currency from the U.S. Dollar to the Georgian
Lari. The Georgian Lari average exchange rate against the
U.S. dollar for the full-year 2003 increased by 2% compared
to the average exchange rate of the Georgian Lari against the
U.S. dollar for the full-year 2002.

Magticom is the market leader in Georgia, based on both revenues
and number of subscribers, and anticipates further increases in
its subscriber base as it continues to penetrate a market that
currently has low telephone density rates. ARPU was favorably
affected by the strengthening of the Georgian Lari against the
U.S. Dollar. Lari calculated ARPU increased 4% for the year
ended December 31, 2003 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2002.

Inbound revenues reflect revenues that Magticom earns as a
result of its termination of other telephone service
providers  traffic on Magticom s telecommunications
network. The significant growth in inbound revenues in 2003 as
compared to 2002 principally reflects the overall increase in
the customer base.

Roaming revenues are based on Magticom subscribers originating
calls using their Magticom-equipped mobile telephone in a
territory not directly serviced by Magticom. Magticom bills its
subscribers an international roaming premium on a per-minute
basis for calls made while abroad. Given the nature of this
revenue stream, which is dependent upon Magticom users traveling
abroad and utilizing their respective Magticom-equipped mobile
telephone, predicting future revenue levels is difficult.

132

Table of Contents   

Cost of services.   

Cost of services at Magticom increased by $3.9 million
(57%) from $6.7 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002 to $10.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. Cost of services as a percent of
revenues increased slightly from 14% for the year ended
December 31, 2002 as compared to 15% for the year ended
December 31, 2003. Magticom s position as the market
leader is allowing it to maintain its margins.

Selling, general and administrative.   

The significant components of selling, general and
administrative expenses for Magticom for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002 are as follows (in thousands):

Magticom s selling, general and administrative expenses
increased $1.5 million (21%) to $8.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003 compared to $7.1 million
for the year ended December 31, 2002. This increase was due
primarily to increases in other taxes of $0.8 million,
advertising and marketing expenses of $0.5 million and
personnel related costs of $0.4 million. The increase in
taxes other than income tax is principally due to the overall
growth of Magticom. The increase in marketing expenses
represents the increase in quarterly advertising magazines and a
lottery promotion that occurred in 2003. The increase in
personnel related costs resulted from an increase in personnel
and bonuses that were paid based on 2003 business performance.

Depreciation and amortization.   

Magticom s depreciation and amortization increased by
$0.4 million from $12.1 million for the year ended
December 30, 2002 to $12.5 million the year ended
December 31, 2003 primarily due to increases in fixed
assets purchased during the year, which were offset by a
reduction of the depreciable fixed asset base for assets
purchased prior to March 31, 2003. Magticom changed its
functional currency from the U.S. Dollar to the Georgian
Lari in the second quarter of 2003.

Asset impairment charges.   

During the fourth quarter of 2002, Magticom ceased using a
billing software package due to the implementation of a new
software system. Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment
charge of $0.8 million.

Other Unconsolidated and Disposed Businesses 

The Company has ownership in certain business ventures accounted
for on the equity method of accounting that are not material to
the Company s operations. In addition, the Company had
ownership interests in certain fixed telephony, wireless
telephony and cable television business ventures accounted for on

133

Table of Contents   

the equity method of accounting, in which the Company has
disposed its interest by December 31, 2003. A summary of
these entities and their operations are as follows:

Fixed Telephony   

Unconsolidated fixed telephony is comprised of the
Company s 30% minority ownership interest in Telecom
Georgia, which is an international and long distance telephony
provider in the country of Georgia. However, as discussed
previously, on February 11, 2005, the Company acquired an
additional 51% interest in Telecom Georgia for
$5.0 million, and as a result, the Company has the ability
to exert operation oversight over Telecom Georgia. Furthermore,
effective May 23, 2005, Telecom Georgia will be accounted
for following the  consolidation method of accounting 
within the Company s consolidated financial statements
since Telecom Georgia had met the criteria of the Company s
consolidation accounting policy. In July 2006, the Company
consummated a series of transactions associated with its
ownership interest in Telecom Georgia. As a result of these
transactions, the Company s ownership interest in Telecom
Georgia decreased to 20.7% and is now held through various U.S.
based holding companies in which the Company has the controlling
interest, thereby enabling the Company to continue to exercise
operational oversight and also consolidation accounting with
respect to Telecom Georgia. Further, in October 2006, the
Company, through International T LLC, an intermediary holding
company in which the Company has a 25.6% economic ownership
interest, acquired the 19% ownership interest held by Bulcom in
Telecom Georgia, thereby increasing the Company s economic
interest in Telecom Georgia to 25.6%. Since the Company s
U.S. GAAP investment is zero and there is no obligation to
fund operations, the Company had not recorded any share of the
losses of Telecom Georgia since December 31, 2003. During
the year ended December 31, 2002, fixed telephony was also
comprised of Comstar, MTR Svyaz and Teleport-TP. The Company
disposed of its interests in Comstar on April 24, 2003 and
its interests in MTR Svyaz and Teleport-TP on June 25, 2003.

Revenues.   

Fixed telephony revenues decreased by $65.9 million (72%)
to $25.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003
as compared to $91.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. This decrease is principally
attributable to the sale of the Company s interests in
Comstar, Teleport-TP and MTR Svyaz. Comstar, Teleport-TP and MTR
Svyaz contributed additional incremental revenues of
$46.8 million, $7.2 million and $1.3 million,
respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2002 as
compared to the year ended December 31, 2003.

Cost of services.   

Fixed telephony cost of services decreased by $32.1 million
(71%) to $12.8 million for the year ended December 31,
2003 as compared to $44.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. This decrease is principally due the
sales of the Company s interests in Comstar, Teleport-TP
and MTR Svyaz in the second quarter of 2003. Comstar,
Teleport-TP and MTR Svyaz contributed additional incremental
cost of sales of $18.4 million, $5.5 million and
$0.4 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2002 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2003.

Selling, general and administrative.   

Fixed telephony selling, general and administrative expenses
decreased by $14.9 million (69%) to $6.8 million for
the year ended December 31, 2003 as compared to
$21.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.
This decrease is principally attributable to the sale of the
Company s interests in Comstar, Teleport-TP and MTR Svyaz
in the second quarter of 2003. Comstar, Teleport-TP and MTR
Svyaz incurred additional selling, general and administrative
expenses of $12.0 million, $1.0 million and
$0.3 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2002 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2003.

134

Table of Contents   

Depreciation and amortization.   

Fixed telephony depreciation and amortization expense decreased
by $17.1 million to $4.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003 as compared to $21.5 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002. The reduction in depreciation
and amortization is principally due to the sale of the
Company s interest in Comstar, Teleport-TP and MTR Svyaz in
second quarter of 2003. Comstar, Teleport-TP and MTR Svyaz
incurred incremental depreciation and amortization expense of
$14.1 million, $0.2 million and $0.6 million,
respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2002 as
compared to the year ended December 31, 2003.

Asset impairment charge.   

During the second quarter of 2002, Comstar wrote down certain
assets totaling $0.4 million related to one of its
locations. No such charge was incurred in 2003.

Other Wireless Telephony   

The Company owned 46% of Tyumenruskom, which operates and
markets communication services in the Tyumen region of Russia
utilizing a D-AMPS telephony infrastructure. The Company
disposed of its interest in Tyumenruskom on September 24,
2003. During the year ended December 31, 2002, other
wireless telephony was also comprised of BELCEL, which the
Company disposed its interests in July 2002.

Cable Television   

Unconsolidated cable television is comprised of Cosmos TV, a
cable television provider in Minsk, Belarus in which the Company
owned a 50% interest. The Company disposed of its interest in
Cosmos TV in March 2004. During the year ended December 31,
2002, cable television was also comprised of Baltcom TV, Kosmos
TV and Alma TV. The Company disposed of its interest in Baltcom
in August 2003, its interest in Kosmos TV in April 2003 and its
interest in Alma TV in May 2002. As such, these dispositions
have a significant consequence when comparing the unconsolidated
cable television financial results for the year ended
December 31, 2003 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2002.

Revenues.   

Cable television revenues decreased by $11.7 million to
$9.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to $21.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. Such decrease is principally due to the
disposal of the Baltcom TV, Kosmos TV and Alma TV business
ventures. Baltcom TV, Kosmos TV and Alma TV contributed
incremental revenue of $3.3 million, $5.0 million and
$4.1 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2002 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2003. Cosmos TV experienced revenue growth of
$0.9 million primarily driven by growth of wired cable
subscribers.

Cost of services.   

Cable television cost of services decreased by $2.2 million
to $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003
as compared to $4.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. Such decrease is principally due to the
disposal of the Baltcom TV, Kosmos TV and Alma TV business
ventures. Baltcom TV, Kosmos TV and Alma TV incurred additional
costs of services of $0.8 million, $1.0 million and
$0.5 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2002 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2003.

Selling, general and administrative.   

Cable television selling, general and administrative expenses
decreased by $6.2 million to $5.8 million for the year
ended December 31, 2003 as compared to $12.0 million
for the year ending December 31, 2002. Such decrease is
principally due to the disposal of Kosmos TV and Alma TV.
Baltcom TV, Kosmos TV and Alma

135

Table of Contents   

TV incurred additional selling, general and administrative
expenses of $1.6 million, $2.9 million and
$1.8 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2002 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2003.

Depreciation and amortization.   

Cable television depreciation and amortization decreased by
$4.1 million to $2.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003 as compared to $6.5 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002. Such decrease is principally
due to the disposal of Baltcom TV, Kosmos TV and Alma TV.
Baltcom TV, Kosmos TV and Alma TV incurred additional
depreciation and amortization expenses of $0.8 million,
$2.0 million and $1.3 million, respectively, for the
year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2003.

DISCONTINUED COMPONENTS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR
ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED TO THE DISCONTINUED
COMPONENTS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2003 

Radio Broadcasting 

On April 24, 2003 the Company completed an exchange with
Adamant Advisory Services, a British Virgin Islands company, of
its ownership in certain of its business ventures in Russia for,
among other things, approximately $58.6 million aggregate
principal amount of the Company s Senior Notes held by
Adamant. As part of this transaction, the Company conveyed to
Adamant its ownership interests in its Russian radio
stations   ZAO SAC in Moscow and ZAO Radio Katusha in
St. Petersburg.

In addition, on May 5, 2003, the Company completed the sale
of its ownership interests in Radio Georgia. Further, on
September 30, 2003, the Board of Directors formally
approved management s plan to dispose of the remaining
non-core Radio businesses. As a result, on April 28, 2004
the Company disposed of its interests in Radio Skonto and on
September 7, 2004 the Company sold all but one of its
remaining radio businesses.

The combined results of operations of the discontinued radio
businesses are as follows (in thousands):

Revenues.   

Radio broadcasting revenues decreased by $3.8 million to
$10.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as
compared to $13.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. This decrease is principally due to the
sale of the radio businesses in the third quarter of 2004.

Revenues at Juventus Radio decreased as a consequence of
increased rate competition by national competitors and a general
decline in the national radio advertising market. In addition,
one of the venture s key clients temporarily halted
advertising during 2004 due to a change in the client s
ownership.

Revenues at Country Radio decreased due to a change in the sales
arrangement with Country Radio s sales house agent, coupled
with a shortfall in direct revenues. The annual agency sales
agreement for 2004 is based on a fixed guarantee instead of a
minimum guarantee, as was the case in 2003. The fixed guarantee
for

136

Table of Contents   

the year will result in consistent sales on an annual basis.
Direct sales decreased year over year primarily due to rate
competition.

Operating expenses.   

Radio broadcasting operating expenses decreased by
$5.9 million to $10.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 as compared to $16.4 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease is principally
due to the sale of the radio businesses in the third quarter of
2004.

In addition, Juventus Radio experienced a decrease in operating
expenses primarily due to the successful outcome of
Juventus  negotiations with the Hungarian media regulators
to reduce broadcast license fees from July 2003, as well as cost
savings in other expenses resulting from restructuring and
streamlining operations at Juventus  radio broadcasting.

Cable Television 

On September 30, 2003, the Board of Directors formally
approved management s plan to dispose of the remaining
non-core cable businesses, other than Ayety TV. The
Company s disposal of its interest in cable television
business ventures have significantly affected the comparability
of the discontinued cable television financial results for the
year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2003.

The combined results of operations of the discontinued Cable
businesses are as follows (in thousands):

Revenues.   

Cable television revenues decreased by $8.9 million to
$2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as
compared to $11.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. This decrease is principally due the
sale of cable television business ventures. Romsat, ATK, Vilsat
and Sun TV contributed incremental revenue of $5.7 million,
$1.6 million, $1.1 million and $0.5 million,
respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to the same period in 2004.

Cost of services.   

Cable television cost of services decreased by $1.8 million
to $0.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004
as compared to $2.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. This decrease is principally due the
sale of cable television business ventures. Romsat, ATK, Vilsat
and Sun TV incurred incremental cost of services of
$1.2 million, $0.2 million $0.3 million and
$0.1 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2003 as compared to the same period in 2004.

Operating expenses.   

Cable television operating expenses decreased by
$5.8 million to $0.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 as compared to $6.7 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease is

137

Table of Contents   

principally due the sale of cable television business ventures.
Romsat, ATK, Vilsat and Sun TV incurred incremental operating
expenses of $3.4 million, $1.3 million,
$0.7 million and $0.4 million, respectively, for the
year ended December 31, 2003 as compared to the same period
in 2004.

Asset impairment charges.   

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, the
Company recorded an impairment of $1.1 million for Sun TV
and ATK, based on evaluations of its respective fair value for
the year ended December 31, 2003. For the year ended
December 31, 2004, the Company recorded an impairment
charge of $0.4 million for Vilsat.

Equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated investees   

Cable television equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated
investees decreased by $0.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. This decrease is due to the sale of Sun
TV during the year ended December 31, 2003.

DISCONTINUED COMPONENTS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR
ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED TO THE DISCONTINUED
COMPONENTS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2002. 

Radio Broadcasting 

On April 24, 2003, the Company completed an exchange with
Adamant Advisory Services, a British Virgin Islands company, of
its ownership in certain of its business ventures in Russia for,
among other things, approximately $58.6 million aggregate
principal amount of the Company s Senior Notes held by
Adamant. As part of this transaction the Company conveyed to
Adamant its ownership interests in its Russian radio
stations   ZAO SAC in Moscow and ZAO Radio Katusha in
St. Petersburg.

In addition, on May 5, 2003, the Company completed the sale
of its ownership interests in Radio Georgia. Further, on
September 30, 2003, the Board of Directors formally
approved management s plan to dispose of the remaining
non-core Radio businesses.

The combined results of operations of the discontinued radio
businesses are as follows (in thousands):

Revenues.   

Radio broadcasting revenues decreased by $3.1 million for
the year ended December 31, 2003 to $13.8 million as
compared to $16.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. This decrease is principally due to the
disposal of the Company s interests in radio assets in
Russia and in Georgia during the first half of 2003. Aggregated,
the disposal of the Russian and Georgian assets accounted for a
decrease in revenue of $7.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2002. This decrease is partially offset by
increased revenues at Country Radio, Metromedia Finland, Radio
Juventus, and

138

Table of Contents   

Trio Radio, as well as currency appreciation. A total of
$2.0 million of the revenue increase was due to local
currency appreciation to the U.S. dollar, principally in
Hungary, the Czech Republic, Finland and Estonia.

Revenues at Country Radio increased by $0.3 million on a
comparable currency basis for the year ended December 31,
2003 as compared to the year end December 31, 2002 due to a
change in Country Radio s sales house agent selling
advertising in the station s programming on an exclusive
basis to national clients, resulting in improved terms of
representation.

On a comparable currency basis, year over year, revenues at
Metromedia Finland increased by $0.6 million as a
consequence of the growth of a newly launched radio station with
steady audience ratings and a growing acceptance by advertisers
as an effective advertising medium. In addition, two newly
acquired stations during 2003 facilitated improved performance.

The comparable currency basis increase of $0.8 million on a
 year-to -year basis at
Juventus included the effect of increased sales from non-owned
network affiliate sales, the additional revenue from Sztar FM,
which the company manages under a management agreement and the
acquisitions of two stations in Miskolc, a key secondary market
after Budapest.

Trio Group recorded an increase in revenues of $0.2 million
on a comparable currency basis for the year ended
December 31, 2003 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2002. The increase was primarily due to
increases in agency revenue due to the exit of state TV from the
advertising market as of August 2002, which resulted in an
 across-the -board
increase in the pricing of advertising in electronic media. In
addition, revenues were bolstered by an improvement in
Trio s revenue market share, resulting from hiring
additional sales force in the third quarter of 2002.

Operating expenses.   

Radio broadcasting operating expenses decreased by
$2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 to
$16.4 million as compared to $18.5 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002. This decrease is primarily
due to a decrease of $4.4 million from the sale of the
Russian and Georgian radio assets in the first half of 2003.
This decrease is partially offset by an increase of
$2.5 million due to unfavorable currency movements.

Equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated investees   

Radio broadcasting equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated
investees decreased by $0.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. This decrease is due to a change in the
method of accounting for Trio Radio from equity to consolidated.

Cable Television 

On September 30, 2003, the Board of Directors formally
approved management s plan to dispose the remaining
non-core cable businesses, other than Ayety TV.

139

Table of Contents   

The combined results of operations of the discontinued Cable
businesses are as follows (in thousands):

Revenues.   

Cable revenues increased $1.0 million to $11.0 million
for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to
$10.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.
This increase is primarily due to increased revenues at ATK of
$0.6 million and Romsat of $0.4 million, both of which
are due to increases in subscribers and rate increases.

Operating expenses.   

Cable selling, general and administrative expenses decreased
$1.2 million to $6.7 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003 as compared to $7.9 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002. This decrease is principally
due to incremental expenses in 2002 from Ala TV of
$1.3 million, which was sold in the first quarter of 2003.

Asset impairment charges.   

For the year ended December 31, 2003, in accordance with
the provisions of SFAS No. 142, the Company recorded
an impairment of $1.1 million for Sun TV and ATK, based on
evaluations of its fair value during the then current year. For
the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company completed an
evaluation of the Cable businesses and recorded a transitional
impairment charge of $2.2 million, also in accordance with
the provisions of SFAS No. 142.

Equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated
    investees.   

Cable television equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated
investees decreased for the year ended December 31, 2003 as
compared to December 31, 2002, principally due to the sale
of Sun TV during 2003.

Snapper, Telephony Businesses, Cardlink and Metromedia China
Corporation 

During 2002, the company disposed of Snapper and certain
telephony ventures, including ALTEL and CPY Yellow Pages.
Accordingly, there are no results reported in 2003 for these
business operations. In addition, in 2003, the Company disposed
of its interests in Technocom. Technocom, ALTEL and CPY Yellow
Pages are collectively referred to as the  Telephony and
other businesses.  During 2003 and 2002, the Company
disposed of its interests in Cardlink and began liquidation of
its interests in Metromedia China Corporation ( MCC )
and its related operating subsidiaries.

140

Table of Contents   

Revenues.   

Revenues for Snapper were $124.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. Revenues for the Telephony and other
businesses were $18.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. The Telephony and other businesses,
primarily Technocom, had revenues of $0.3 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003.

Operating income (loss).   

Snapper s operating income was $1.1 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002. Operating losses for the
Telephony and other businesses were $10.4 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002. Technocom and MCC operating
losses were not material for the year ended December 31,
2003.

Cumulative effect of a change in accounting
    principle.   

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, the
Company completed an evaluation of the fair value of Snapper and
determined there was a transitional impairment charge required
and accordingly recorded a $13.6 million charge as of
January 1, 2002.

Critical Accounting Policies 

Management s discussion and analysis of the Company s
financial condition and results of operations is based upon the
Company s consolidated financial statements, which have
been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation
of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP
requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reporting periods. See Note 3,
 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,  in the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for descriptions
of the Company s major accounting policies. Management
bases estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the
circumstances. Management also continuously evaluates such
estimates and assumptions. However, actual results could differ
materially from these estimates. These critical accounting
policies are discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors on a periodic basis.

The Company believes the following critical accounting policies
affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the
preparation of its consolidated financial statements:

Allowance for doubtful accounts   

The Company makes estimates of the collectability of its
accounts receivable. Management analyzes historical write-offs,
changes in internal credit policies and customer concentrations
when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful
accounts. Differences may result in the amount and timing of
expenses for any period if management made different judgments
or utilized different estimates or if actual experience differs
from estimates. Based on the Company s allowance for
doubtful accounts at December 31, 2004, a hypothetical
increase or decrease of 10% in the estimate would increase or
decrease the Company s consolidated general and
administrative expense by $0.2 million. In addition, the
Company s equity in earnings from business ventures would
decrease or increase by $0.1 million.

Useful lives of property and equipment   

Property and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated
depreciation. The telecommunications industry is capital
intensive. Depreciation of operating assets constitutes a
significant operating cost for the Company. The cost of property
and equipment is charged to depreciation expense over estimated
useful lives. Depending on the type of asset or the type of
technology, lives for: (i) buildings and leasehold
improvements

141

Table of Contents   

range from 4 to 10 years; (ii) telecommunications
equipment at 10 years; and (iii) office equipment,
computer equipment and vehicles range from 3 to 5 years.

Based on the weighted average useful life at December 31,
2004, a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the weighted
average useful life would decrease or increase the
Company s consolidated amortization and depreciation
expense by $1.5 million and $1.8 million,
respectively. In addition, the Company s equity in earnings
from business ventures would increase or decrease by
$0.4 million or $0.5 million, respectively.

Impairment of long-lived assets and intangibles   

The Company has recognized goodwill and other intangible assets
that meet the definition of indefinite life intangible assets
under SFAS No. 142. Under SFAS No. 142,
impairment must be assessed at least annually, or when
indications of impairment exist. Management assesses impairment
by comparing the carrying value of the assets to the fair value.
The fair value of long-lived assets and goodwill are estimated
using the discounted present value of expected future cash flows
or the expected proceeds from sale less cost to sell. The
determination of fair value involves significant assumptions and
estimates. Assumptions and estimates made by the Company are
based on management s best judgments and include among
other things: (i) an assessment of market and economic
conditions including discount rates; (ii) future operating
strategy and performance; (iii) competition and market
share; (iv) the nature and cost of technology utilized; and
(v) values placed on such assets as a component of any
planned or pending dispositions. Based on management s
estimate of the fair value performed in 2004, a 10% increase or
decrease in the discount rate used would not have indicated that
the Company s long-lived assets were impaired, as the
Company s principal long-lived intangibles and goodwill are
included as part of the Company s investment in PeterStar.

Management assesses the impairment of long-lived assets whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value of such assets may not be recoverable. Factors that could
trigger an impairment review include significant
underperformance relative to anticipated minimum future
operating results and a significant change in the manner of use
of the assets or the strategy for the Company s overall
business.

Recognition of revenue and deferred revenues   

The Company s business ventures  telephony operations
recognize revenues in the period the service is provided.
Installation fees for telephony operations are deferred together
with the related costs and amortized over the estimated term of
a customer relationship. Installation costs in excess of
installation fees are recognized as expense in the period
incurred.

Customer relationships, which have historically been consistent
and which management views to be reliable for purposes of
gauging predictive behavior, allow the Company to estimate the
average customer relationship to utilize for purposes of
recognizing such deferred revenues. Actual customer
relationships may be longer or shorter than those used by the
Company for purposes of deferring revenues. As a result from
time to time, the Company may adjust the time horizon for
purposes of deferring revenue. For instance, in 2004, upon
review of current customer relationships, PeterStar adjusted the
length of such customer relationships from three to five years.
Based on management s estimated customer relationships at
December 31, 2004, a hypothetical 10% increase or
decrease in the period of such deferral would decrease or
increase the Company s consolidated revenues by
$0.2 million. In addition, the Company s equity in
earnings from business ventures would decrease or increase by
$0.1 million.

Assessing control over operations of business
    ventures   

The Company assesses its level of control over the operating and
financial decisions of its business ventures and subsidiaries
when determining whether to account for their operations either
at cost, using the equity method or the consolidation method.
The assessment considers all relevant facts including the

142

Table of Contents   

Company s legal voting interests, the existence of
protective or participating legal rights of other parties and
the Company s actual involvement in the ordinary course
decision making of the businesses.

Although the Company may own in excess of 50% of a particular
business venture, the Company s rights may be so limited
due to documents legally enforceable in a jurisdiction outside
the U.S., that the Company may not be able to exert such
management control over the
 day-to -day operations
of the business. Thus, the Company may not consolidate all
entities in which it owns a majority of the voting rights. The
Company monitors changes in its level of control due to changes
in ownership percentages, as well as external factors that may
affect its influence or control and responds accordingly. Such
evaluations result in management s judgment in determining
the most appropriate methodology of accounting to recognize its
rights in such business ventures.

Self-insured workers  compensation and product
    liability claims   

The Company establishes reserves for claims and claims expense
on reported and unreported claims of self-insured losses. Such
costs are relative to workers  compensation and product
liability costs for certain former subsidiaries  claims
prior to their sale. In addition, the Company has agreed to
indemnify certain former subsidiaries for claims payments made
on behalf of the Company, or the Company has agreed to act as
guarantor for any claims  reimbursements made on its behalf
by third parties. These reserve estimates are based on known
facts and interpretations of circumstances and internal factors
including the Company s experience with similar cases,
historical trends involving claim payment patterns, loss
payments and pending levels of unpaid claims. In addition, the
reserve estimates are influenced by external factors including
law changes, court decisions, changes to regulatory
requirements, economic conditions, and public attitudes. The
Company may also supplement its claims processes by utilizing
third party appraisers, engineers, other professionals and
information sources to assess and settle claims.

Because reserves are based on estimations of future losses, the
establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain
process. In addition, there may be a lag in the receipt of
information from former subsidiaries or third parties seeking
reimbursement of remittances made on behalf of the Company. As a
result, the ultimate costs of losses may vary materially from
recorded amounts, which are based on management s best
estimates of future losses.

Employee benefit plans   

The Company recognizes liabilities for estimated future
obligations for pension and medical benefits. Such liabilities
are based upon actuarial analysis, which is influenced by a
variety of assumptions, including mortality rates, estimated
returns on investments, and a discount rate for future
liabilities. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount
and timing of future contributions that are required to be made
to the Company s pension plan. The expected amount and
timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum
requirements under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, cash
availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status,
avoidance of Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
( PBGC ) penalty premiums and tax efficiency).

The Company bases the discount rate assumption on investment
yields available at year-end on long-term bonds rated Aa- or
better. The Company used the Moody s Aa long-term bond
yield as the indicator of these yields. The expected return on
plan assets assumption reflects various long-run inputs,
including historical plan returns, inflation and other
variables. Mortality rates are developed to reflect projected
plan experience. The effects of actual results differing from
management s assumptions and the effects of changing
assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses.
Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods
and, therefore, generally affect the Company s recognized
expense in future periods.

As previously discussed (see      Liquidity and
Capital Resources   Guarantees and Commitments  
Employee Benefit Plans ) , in the third quarter of 2004,
the Company initiated a process whereby the Pension Plan would
be terminated pursuant to a standard termination, in accordance
with the provisions of

143

Table of Contents   

Section 4041 of the ERISA. At the time of initiating the
termination, the Company believed that the process to terminate
the plan would take at most twelve months to complete; however,
the final distribution did not take place until the end of first
quarter 2006. Specifically, on March 14, 2006, the Company
funded approximately $5.4 million to the Pension Plan to
ensure that the value of the Pension Plan assets was sufficient
to cover all benefit liabilities.

The Pension Plan was required, at termination, to have assets
sufficient in value to provide for all retiree benefit
liabilities under the Pension Plan within the meaning of
Section 4041 of ERISA. The Company engaged an outside
actuary to determine the additional amount that the Company was
required to contribute to the Pension Plan to satisfy all
benefit liabilities. The Company anticipates that it will
recognize an additional expense of $10.2 million in the
first quarter of 2006 for the termination of the Pension Plan,
which includes recognition of $7.4 million of expense that
is recorded within the  accumulated other comprehensive
loss  line item within the Company s consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 2004.

Income taxes   

The Company has historically had sufficient uncertainty
regarding the realization of its deferred tax assets, including
a history of recurring operating losses, such that a valuation
allowance has been recorded for the deferred tax assets of the
Company. The Company has continued to record a valuation
allowance on its U.S. federal and state deferred tax
assets, as sufficient evidence does not exist that they will be
realized from continuing operating activities. To determine if a
valuation allowance is necessary for each tax jurisdiction, the
Company estimated several items including: (i) future
taxable income at each entity and in each jurisdiction,
(ii) the timing of future reversals of deferred tax assets
and deferred tax liabilities, and (iii) the likelihood that
the Company will be able to realize its deferred tax assets,
which are primarily related to federal net operating loss and
net capital loss carryforwards. Based on management s
estimates at December 31, 2004, a hypothetical 10% increase
or decrease in the Company s estimated future taxable
income would not change its valuation allowance on the
Company s U.S. deferred tax assets or its foreign net
deferred tax assets.

In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company determined that
adequate evidence existed that it is more likely than not that
Magticom will realize long-term deferred tax assets for Georgian
income tax purposes. As a result, Magticom has released its
valuation allowance on these long-term deferred tax assets.

Contingencies   

The Company is currently involved in certain legal proceedings
and litigation and has accrued amounts as appropriate that
represent management s estimate of the probable outcome of
these matters. The judgments that management makes with regard
to whether to establish a reserve are based on an evaluation of
all relevant factors by internal and external legal counsel. The
relevant factors analyzed include an analysis of the complaint,
documents, testimony and other materials as applicable. The
damages claimed in most legal proceedings are not a meaningful
predictor of actual potential liability because the amounts
claimed generally have little or no relationship to the actual
damages suffered or sustained. Claims are continually monitored
and reevaluated as new information is obtained. The Company
recognizes a liability when it becomes probable and estimable.
The actual settlement of such matters could differ materially
from the judgments made in determining how much, if any, to
accrue.

New Accounting Pronouncements 

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,
  Inventory Costs   An Amendment of ARB
No. 43, Chapter 4 
 ( SFAS No. 151 ). SFAS No. 151
clarifies that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense,
freight, handling costs, and wasted materials
(spoilage) should be recognized as current-period charges
and requires the allocation of fixed production overheads to
inventory based on the normal capacity of the production
facilities. SFAS No. 151 is effective for fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 2005. The

144

Table of Contents   

Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 151
to have a significant impact on the Company s consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,
  Share-Based Payment  
( SFAS No. 123R ). SFAS No. 123R
requires that the compensation cost relating to share-based
payment transactions, including grants of employee stock
options, be recognized in financial statements. That cost will
be measured based on the fair value of the equity or liability
instruments issued. SFAS No. 123R covers a wide range
of share-based compensation arrangements including stock
options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share
appreciation rights, and employee share purchase plans.

SFAS No. 123R specifies that the fair value of an
employee stock option be based on an observable market price of
an option with the same or similar terms and conditions if one
is available. Since the Company s employee stock options
are not currently traded, there is no observable market price,
and SFAS No. 123R thus requires that the fair value be
estimated using a valuation technique that (1) is applied
in a manner consistent with the fair value measurement objective
and the other requirements of the Statement, (2) is based
on established principles of financial economic theory and
generally applied in that field, and (3) reflects all
substantive characteristics of the instrument.
SFAS No. 123R permits entities to use any
option-pricing model that meets the fair value objective in the
Statement.

The Statement is effective for public companies at the beginning
of the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005
(fiscal 2006 for the Company). The impact of this Statement on
the Company in fiscal 2006 and beyond will depend upon various
factors, including, but not limited to, the Company s
future compensation strategy. The pro forma compensation costs
presented have been calculated using a Black-Scholes option
pricing model and may not be indicative of amounts, which should
be expected in future years. As of the date of this filing, no
decisions have been made as to which option-pricing model is
most appropriate for the Company. The adoption of this standard
will have no impact on the Company s cash flows, but should
the Company grant stock options during 2006 and beyond, the
Company s compensation expense would be expected to
increase.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153,
  Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets   an
amendment of APB Opinion No. 29   ( APB
No. 29 ) (SFAS No. 153 ). APB Opinion
No. 29 requires that nonmonetary exchanges of assets be
recorded at fair value with an exception for exchanges of
similar productive assets, which can be recorded on a carryover
basis. SFAS No. 153 eliminates the current exception
and replaces it with a general exception for exchanges of
nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. A
nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash
flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a
result of the exchange. SFAS No. 153 is effective for
nonmonetary asset exchanges that take place in fiscal periods
beginning after June 15, 2005, which is July 1, 2005
for the Company; however, earlier application is permitted. The
Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 153
to have a significant impact on the Company s consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47,
  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations   An Interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 143   ( FIN No. 47 ). The
FASB issued FIN No. 47 to address diverse accounting
practices that developed with respect to the timing of liability
recognition for legal obligations associated with the retirement
of a tangible long-lived asset when the timing and
(or) method of settlement of the obligation are conditional
on a future event. FIN No. 47 concludes that an entity
is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a
conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred if the
liability s fair value can be reasonably estimated.
FIN No. 47 is effective for the Company no later than
December 31, 2005. The Company has determined that the
adoption of FIN No. 47 will not have a material impact
on its financial position or results of operations.

In June 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections 
 ( SFAS No. 154 ), which will require
entities that voluntarily make a change in accounting principle
to apply that change retrospectively to prior periods 
financial statements, unless this would be impracticable.
SFAS No. 154 supersedes APB Opinion No. 20,
  Accounting Changes   ( APB
No. 20 ), which previously

145

Table of Contents   

required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be
recognized by including in the current period s net income
the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting
principle. SFAS No. 154 also makes a distinction
between  retrospective application  of an accounting
principle and the  restatement  of financial
statements to reflect the correction of an error. Another
significant change in practice under SFAS No. 154 will
be that if an entity changes its method of depreciation,
amortization, or depletion for long-lived, non-financial assets,
the change must be accounted for as a change in accounting
estimate. Under APB No. 20, such a change would have been
reported as a change in accounting principle.
SFAS No. 154 applies to accounting changes and error
corrections that are made in fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2005.

In June 2005, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue
No.  05-06, 
  Determining the Amortization Period for Leasehold
Improvements Purchased after Lease Inception or Acquired in a
Business Combination   ( EITF
No.  05-6 ), 
that leasehold improvements acquired in a business combination
should be amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the
assets or a term that includes required lease periods and
renewals that are deemed to be reasonably assured (as defined in
paragraph 5 of FASB Statement No. 13) at the date of
acquisition. Additionally, leasehold improvements that are
placed in service significantly after and not contemplated at or
near the beginning of the lease term should be amortized over
the shorter of the useful life of the assets or a term that
includes required lease periods and renewals that are deemed to
be reasonably assured (as defined in paragraph 5 of FASB
Statement No. 13) at the date the leasehold improvements
are purchased. EITF
No.  05-6  should be
applied to leasehold improvements that are purchased or acquired
in reporting periods beginning after June 29, 2005. Early
application is permitted. The Company does not expect the
adoption of EITF
No.  05-6  to have a
significant impact on the Company s consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

In September 2005, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue
No.  05-7, 
  Accounting for Modifications to Conversion Options
Embedded in Debt Instruments and Related Issues  
( EITF
No.  05-7 ), 
that an entity should include, upon the modification of a
convertible debt instrument, the change in fair value of the
related embedded conversion option in the analysis to determine
whether a debt instrument has been extinguished pursuant to
Issue 96-19; that the modification of a convertible debt
instrument should affect subsequent recognition of interest
expense for the associated debt instrument for changes in the
fair value of the embedded conversion option; and therefore the
issuer should not recognize a beneficial conversion feature or
reassess an existing beneficial conversion feature upon
modification of a convertible debt instrument. EITF
No.  05-7  should be
applied to future modifications of debt instruments beginning in
the first interim or annual reporting period beginning after
December 15, 2005. Early application is permitted. The EITF
reaffirmed its consensus in June 2006, EITF
No.  06-6, 
  Application of Issue
No.  05-7   
without any change. The Company does not expect the adoption of
EITF Nos. 05-7 and 06-6 to have a significant impact on the
Company s consolidated financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

In March 2006, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue
No.  06-2, 
  Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar
Benefits Pursuant to FASB Statement No. 43 
 ( EITF
No.  06-2 ), 
that an employee s right to a compensated absence under a
sabbatical or other similar benefit arrangement (a) that
requires the completion of a minimum service period and
(b) in which the benefit does not increase with additional
years of service accumulates pursuant to paragraph 6(b) of
FASB Statement No. 43 for arrangements in which the
individual continues to be a compensated employee and is not
required to perform duties for the entity during the absence.
Therefore, assuming all of the other conditions of
paragraph 6 of FASB Statement No. 43 are met, the
compensation cost associated with a sabbatical or other similar
benefit arrangement should be accrued over the requisite service
period. EITF
No.  06-2  is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2006. An entity should apply the consensus reached in this Issue
through either (a) a change in accounting principle through
a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings or to other
components of equity or net assets in the statement of financial
position at the beginning of the year of adoption or (b) a
change in accounting principle through retrospective application
to all prior periods. Earlier adoption is permitted. The Company
does not expect the adoption of EITF
No.  06-2  to have a
significant impact on the Company s consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

146

Table of Contents   

In March 2006, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue
No.  06-3, 
  How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to
Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income
Statement (That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation ) 
( EITF
No.  06-3 ), 
that the scope of this Issue includes any tax assessed by a
governmental authority that is both imposed on and concurrent
with a specific revenue-producing transaction between a seller
and a customer, and may include, but is not limited to, sales,
use, value added, and some excise taxes. The scope of this Issue
excludes tax schemes that are based on gross receipts and taxes
that are imposed during the inventory procurement process.
Additionally, the presentation of taxes within the scope of this
Issue on either a gross basis (included in revenues and costs)
or a net basis (excluded from revenues) is an accounting policy
decision that should be disclosed pursuant to APB Opinion
No. 22. An entity is not required to reevaluate its
existing policies related to taxes assessed by a governmental
authority as a result of this consensus. In addition, for any
such taxes that are reported on a gross basis, an entity should
disclose the amounts of those taxes in interim and annual
financial statements for each period for which an income
statement is presented if those amounts are significant. The
disclosure of those taxes can be done on an aggregate basis.
EITF No.  06-3 
should be applied to financial reports for interim and annual
reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2006.
Earlier application is permitted. The Company does not expect
the adoption of EITF
No.  06-3  to have a
significant impact on the Company s consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,
  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  
an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 
 ( FIN No. 48 ). This Interpretation
clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in
accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for
Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 prescribes a recognition
threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected
to be taken in a tax return. This Interpretation also provides
guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and
penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and
transition. FIN No. 48 is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2006. Earlier application is
encouraged. The Company does not expect the adoption of
FIN No. 48 to have a significant impact on the
Company s consolidated financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 108, ( SAB 108 ).
SAB 108 addresses the staff s views regarding the
process of quantifying financial statement misstatements. The
staff is aware of diversity in practice and has provided
guidance on the consideration of the effects of prior year
misstatements in quantifying current year misstatements for the
purpose of a materiality assessment. The staff believes
registrants must quantify the impact of correcting all
misstatements, including both the carryover and reversing
effects of prior year misstatements, on the current year
financial statements. The staff believes that this can be
accomplished by quantifying an error under both the rollover and
iron curtain approaches by evaluating the error measured under
each approach. Thus, a registrant s financial statements
would require adjustment when either approach results in
quantifying a misstatement that is material, after considering
all relevant quantitative and qualitative factors. To provide
full disclosure, registrants electing not to restate prior
periods should reflect the effects of initially applying the
guidance in their annual financial statements covering the first
fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006. The cumulative
effect of the initial application should be reported in the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities as of the beginning
of that fiscal year, and the offsetting adjustment should be
made to the opening balance of retained earnings for that year.
Registrants should disclose the nature and amount of each
individual error being corrected in the cumulative adjustment.
The disclosure should also include when and how each error being
corrected arose and the fact that the errors had previously been
considered immaterial. Early application of the guidance is
encouraged in any report for an interim period of the first
fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006, filed after the
publication of this Staff Accounting Bulletin.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,
  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) 
 ( SFAS No. 158 ), requiring an employer
to recognize the over funded or under funded status of a defined
benefit postretirement plan (other than a multi-employer plan)
as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position
and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in
which the changes occur

147

Table of Contents   

through comprehensive income. This Statement also requires an
employer to measure the funded status of a plan as of the date
of its year-end statement of financial position, with limited
exceptions. SFAS No. 158 requires the Company to
initially recognize the funded status of a defined benefit
postretirement plan and to provide the required disclosures as
of the end of the fiscal year ending after December 15,
2006. Earlier application is encouraged. The Company does not
expect the adoption of SFAS No. 158 to have a
significant impact on the Company s consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
  Fair Value Measurements  
( SFAS No. 157 ). This Statement defines
fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and expands
disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement
clarifies that the exchange price is the price in an orderly
transaction between market participants to sell the asset or
transfer the liability in the market in which the reporting
entity would transact for the asset or liability, that is, the
principal or most advantageous market for the asset or
liability. The definition focuses on the price that would be
received to sell the asset or paid to transfer the liability (an
exit price), not the price that would be paid to acquire the
asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price).
SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements
issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007,
and interim periods within those fiscal years. Earlier
application is encouraged. The Company does not expect the
adoption of SFAS 157 to have a significant impact on the
Company s consolidated financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

Item 7A.  
     
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk   

In the normal course of business, the financial position of the
Company is routinely subjected to a variety of risks. In
addition to the market risk associated with interest rate
movements on outstanding debt and currency rate movements on
 non-U.S.  Dollar
denominated assets and liabilities, other examples of risk
include collectability of accounts receivable and significant
political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business
in emerging markets such as Russia and Georgia.

The Company does not currently hedge against foreign exchange
rate risks. In the countries that the Company s business
ventures operate, the currencies (the Russian Ruble and the
Georgian Lari) are non-convertible outside the respective
countries, so the Company s ability to hedge against
devaluation by converting to other currencies is significantly
limited. In these countries, a sophisticated or reliable market
for the trade of derivative instruments in order to allow the
Company to hedge foreign currency risk does not currently exist.
Accordingly, the Company seeks to maintain the minimal amount of
foreign currency on hand to reduce its exposure. However, the
Company s ability to minimize such amount is limited by the
fact that most expenses are denominated in foreign currencies
and the countries in which the Company does business have strict
foreign currency regulations. Accordingly, the Company s
business ventures maintain local currency accounts for immediate
cash needs but also maintain U.S. dollar accounts. Magticom
maintains a significant portion of its cash balance in a
U.S. dollar account. The book values of such accounts at
December 31, 2004 and 2003 approximate their fair value.
The Company s corporate cash in excess of immediate
operating needs is invested in a U.S. money market account.

The Company is exposed to foreign exchange price risk in that
its operations are located outside of the United States and the
functional currency of such businesses is the relevant local
currency. In remeasuring the financial statements stated in the
local currency into the reporting currency (U.S. Dollars),
a gain or loss may result in the accumulated translation
adjustment account. In Russia, where the Company had, prior to
August 1, 2005, its operations in consolidated
subsidiaries, a 10% devaluation of the Russian Ruble in 2004
relative to the 2003 year-end exchange rate would have
resulted in a reduction in foreign currency translation gains of
$0.4 million, with all other variables held constant. In
addition, the Company s business ventures accounted for
under the equity method are exposed to foreign exchange price
risk. The Company s exposure to these risks is limited by
its less significant ownership interest.

The majority of the Company s debt obligations and those of
its operating businesses are fixed rate obligations, and are
therefore not exposed to market risk from upward changes in
interest rates. Although

148

Table of Contents   

market risk exists for downward changes in interest rates, the
Company s fixed interest rate of
10  1  / 2 %
on its Senior Notes, prior to redemption in August 2005,
would likely approximate or be lower than a hypothetical rate on
similar variable rate obligations, thereby limiting the risk.
Furthermore, the Company s long-term debt is denominated in
U.S. Dollars. The Company does not believe that the
Company s debt not denominated in U.S. Dollars
(totaling $3.1 million as of December 31, 2004)
exposes the Company to a material market risk from changes in
foreign exchange rates.

Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations  
Inflation and Foreign Currency   contains additional
information on risks associated with the Company s
investments in Russia (prior to August 2005) and Georgia.

Item 8.  
     
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

The financial statements and supplementary data required under
this item are included in Item 15 of this Report.

Item 9.  
     
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

The Company had no reportable events.

Item 9A.  
     
      Controls and Procedures   

Management s Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures 

As of December 31, 2004, the end of the period covered by
this Annual Report on
Form  10-K, 
management performed, under the supervision and with the
participation of the Company s Chief Executive Officer and
the Chief Financial Officer, an evaluation of the effectiveness
of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as
defined in
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e)  of the
Exchange Act. The Company s disclosure controls and
procedures are designed to ensure that information required to
be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted by the Company
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s
rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and
communicated to the Company s management, including the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Based on this
evaluation and the identification of material weaknesses in the
Company s internal control over financial reporting as
described below, the restatement of the Company s
previously issued consolidated financial statements as described
in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements and the
Company s inability to file this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for a substantial period of time beyond the
prescribed due date, the Company s Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of
December 31, 2004, the Company s disclosure controls
and procedures were not effective.

However, management performed substantial additional procedures
and made appropriate adjustments to satisfy themselves that the
consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K fairly present, in all material respects, the
Company s financial position, results of operations and
cash flows for the periods presented in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

The Company s management, including the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the
disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls will
prevent all errors and all improper conduct. An internal control
system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide
only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of
the internal control system are met. Further, the design of an
internal control system must reflect the fact that there are
resource constraints, and the benefits of a specific internal
control must be considered relative to the cost to implement
said internal control. Because of the inherent limitations in
all internal control systems, no evaluation of internal controls
can provide absolute assurance that all internal control issues
and instances of improper conduct, if any, within the Company
have been detected. These inherent limitations include the
realities that judgments in decision-

149

Table of Contents   

making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of
simple error or mistake. Additionally, internal controls can be
circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by
collusion of two or more people, or by management override of a
specific control.

During the preparation of the Company s financial
statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 for
inclusion within the Company s 2004 Form 10-K, the
Company identified certain accounting errors related to
previously issued financial statements. The Company determined
that the accounting errors were so significant that certain
financial statements contained in the Company s periodic
reports previously filed with the SEC could no longer be relied
upon.

The accounting errors required restatement of the Company s
previously issued consolidated financial statements as of
December 31, 2003 and for the two year period ended
December 31, 2003 and the condensed consolidated financial
statements for the interim periods during the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003. In addition, the Company also
restated summary financial information included in the Selected
Financial Data for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2002
and 2001. The amounts included in Management s Discussion
and Analysis and other disclosures in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K have also been restated for all periods
presented. Restatement adjustments are described in Note 2:
 Restatement of Prior Information  of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included within this
Form 10-K.

A material weakness in internal control over financial reporting
is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies,
that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material
misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will
not be prevented or detected. Management identified the
following material weaknesses in internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2004:

The Company did not maintain an effective control environment.
    Specifically, the Company did not maintain a sufficient number
    of personnel at its foreign locations with an appropriate level
    of knowledge, experience and training in the application of U.S.
    GAAP and in internal control over financial reporting
    commensurate with the Company s financial reporting
    requirements, nor did the Company complement its foreign
    locations with a sufficient number of trained personnel at its
    corporate office to appropriately review and approve the
    financial reporting of the Company s business ventures. The
    Company also did not maintain adequate controls with respect to
    the review, supervision and monitoring of accounting operations
    at its foreign locations with respect to application of
    consistent accounting policies. These deficiencies in the
    Company s control environment contributed to the existence
    of the material weaknesses discussed below; 

The Company did not maintain effective policies and procedures
    governing the financial close and reporting process. This
    deficiency resulted in a lack of management oversight and review
    procedures over the preparation of the Company s financial
    statements; and 

The Company did not design and maintain effective policies and
    procedures over the completeness, accuracy, existence, valuation
    and disclosure of financial information submitted by its
    business ventures located in Russia and the Country of Georgia.
    Specifically, the Company had ineffective controls over:
    (a) the appropriate method of consolidation for its
    business ventures; (b) the review of customer contracts for
    proper revenue recognition in accordance with U.S. GAAP;
    (c) the recording of accrued liabilities and related
    expense; and (d) the capitalization of property and equipment
    and related depreciation and amortization. 

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

There have been no changes in the Company s internal
control over financial reporting during the most recently
completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
internal control over financial reporting.

150

Table of Contents   

Remediation of Material Weaknesses 

Subsequent to December 31, 2004, management has engaged in,
and continues to engage in, substantial efforts to address the
material weaknesses in the Company s internal control over
financial reporting and the ineffectiveness of the
Company s disclosure controls and procedures. As indicated
earlier, the Company has been able to retain additional finance
personnel, both fulltime and consultants/contractors, to assist
in meeting its financial reporting obligations and to also
assist Magticom finance personnel with the implementation of its
new ERP system; however, the additional recruitment of finance
personnel to work within the country of Georgia is required.

Management is currently in the process of evaluating its
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005 as prescribed by SOX 404. The remediation
effort noted above are subject to the Company s internal
control assessment, testing and evaluation processes. Management
expects that its evaluation will result in a conclusion that the
Company s internal control over financial reporting was not
effective as of December 31, 2005. While the remediation
effort continues, management will rely on other measures as
needed to assist with complying with its financial reporting
obligations.

Other Factors Affecting Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting 

The following items describe some events that are reasonably
likely to continue to affect the Company s internal control
over financial reporting and/or its ability to remediate certain
material weaknesses:

i)  
     
    The Company has experienced, and will continue to experience for
    the foreseeable future, difficulty and significant cost in the
    timely collection of financial statement results with respect to
    its business ventures. As a result, the timely collection of
    financial data and preparation of consolidated financial
    statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP has required significant
    resources of the Company, and the Company has been unable to
    provide adequate resources to ensure the timely compliance with
    this obligation, thus the Company s ability to timely file
    its periodic reports with the SEC in the future will continue to
    be indicative of a material weakness for the foreseeable future; 

ii)  
     
    The Company does not presently have sufficient financial
    personnel and resources within Georgia to prepare and finalize,
    on a timely basis, the U.S. GAAP financial results for the
    Company s business ventures located within Georgia. The
    recruitment and retention of qualified U.S. GAAP accountants in
    Georgia is difficult due to the high demand for individuals with
    these skills in this part of the world; 

iii)  
     
    The Company s business ventures in Georgia do not have
    adequate local financial accounting workflow processes and
    accounting information systems for the timely preparation of
    U.S. GAAP financial accounting and reporting. Such workflow
    processes and accounting information systems are sufficient to
    meet, and were designed to meet, the local statutory tax
    reporting requirements; however, significant work effort by both
    the local finance personnel and corporate finance personnel to
    transform the local statutory accounting records to U.S. GAAP
    financial results; and 

iv)  
     
    The effective oversight by the Company of the business managers
    who are responsible for managing the daily business matters of
    the Company s business ventures may be encumbered due to
    business practice common within the geographic area of the
    business operations. An example includes, the fact that the
    Company has attempted to terminate the General Director at
    Ayety, in which the Company has a majority ownership. However,
    due to disputes with the Company s minority shareholder,
    the Company has been unable to enforce such actions and does not
    expect such situation to improve in the foreseeable future. 

Item 9B.  
     
      Other Information   

None.

151

Table of Contents   

PART III 

Item 10.  
     
      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

The Company s directors and executive officers and their
respective ages and positions are as follows:

Name  
       
      Age    
       
      Position  

Mark S. Hauf

58 

Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief
    Executive Officer 

Harold F. Pyle, III

42 

Executive Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer and
    Treasurer 

B. Dean Elledge

42 

Vice President Finance, Chief Accounting Officer and Assistant
    Treasurer 

Natalia Alexeeva

37 

Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 

Victor Koresh

53 

Vice President of Operations   Russia, through August
    2005 

John S. Chalsty

72 

Director 

David Gale

47 

Director 

Alan K. Greene

66 

Director 

William F. Harley, III

43 

Director 

Wayne Henderson

65 

Director 

Clark A. Johnson

74 

Director 

I. Martin Pompadur

71 

Director 

Stuart Subotnick

64 

Director 

Leonard White

67 

Director 

The following is a biographical summary of the experience of the
Company s executive officers and directors.

Mr. Hauf  has served as Chairman of the Board of
Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company
since February 2003. Prior to that time, Mr. Hauf has
occupied several positions with affiliates of the Company
beginning in 1996. From February 2002 until his appointment to
his new role, Mr. Hauf served as the Chief Operating
Officer of MITI. Prior to that, he served as President of
Metromedia China Corporation.

Mr. Pyle  has served as the Executive Vice President
Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company
since October 2003. Prior to that time, he served as Senior Vice
President Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since
February 2002. Previously, he was the Vice President, Finance
and Corporate Controller at Global TeleSystems, Inc., which was
a provider of data, internet and broadband services across
Europe, from December 1995 to July 2001.

Mr. Elledge  has served as the Vice President
Finance, Chief Accounting Officer since October 1, 2003.
Prior to that date, Mr. Elledge was the Vice President of
Financial Reporting since March 2002. Previously, he was a
Senior Manager at Ernst & Young LLP for the Technology,
Communications & Entertainment Group from 1999 to 2001,
serving principally telecommunications companies and other high
technology companies. Mr. Elledge is a Certified Public
Accountant and a Certified Management Accountant.

Ms. Alexeeva  has served as the Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary of the Company since November
2003. From August 2000 and until her appointment to her new
role, Ms. Alexeeva served as the Assistant General Counsel
of MITI. Before joining the Company, Ms. Alexeeva was an
associate with the law firms Patterson Belknap, Webb &
Tyler LLP and Clifford Chance, specializing in corporate law and
international business transactions. Ms. Alexeeva is
admitted to practice law in the State of New York and in the
Russian Federation.

Mr. Koresh  has served as the Vice President of
Operations   Russia from September 2003 until August
2005. He also acted as General Director of PeterStar, a position
that he held since May 2001. Prior to that

152

Table of Contents   

time, he held key posts in telecommunications companies such as
Sovintel (General Director of the Petersburg branch from 1997 to
2001), Baltic Communications Limited, and Leningrad Telegraph.
Mr. Koresh graduated from the M.A. Bonch-Bruevich Leningrad
Electrical Institute of Communications and qualified as a
telecommunications engineer in 1976. He is a full member of the
International Academy of Communications. Mr. Koresh
resigned from the Company in August 2005 following the
completion of the PeterStar sale.

Mr. Chalsty  has served as a Director of the Company
since March 2001. Mr. Chalsty is currently the Chairman of
Muirfield Capital Management, LLC. He had been with Donaldson,
Lufkin & Jenrette since 1969, serving as President and
Chief Executive Officer beginning in 1985 and as Chairman
beginning in 1996 and continuing until the Company s merger
with Credit Suisse First Boston in 2000. He also was a senior
advisor to Credit Suisse First Boston until 2002. He is
currently a member of the Board of Directors of Occidental
Petroleum Corporation and Republic Property Trust, Inc.
Mr. Chalsty is a Trustee of Columbia University and
Chairman of the Columbia Investment Management Corporation.
Mr. Chalsty is Chairman of the Nominating Committee.

Mr. Gale  has served as a Director of the Company
since June 2004 when the Company appointed him as a Director
pursuant to an agreement between the Company and certain holders
of the Company s Preferred Stock. He is President of Delta
Dividend Group, Inc., an investment firm and an ETP holder on
the Archipelago Exchange that invests primarily for its own
account in preferred stocks and corporate bonds. Previously, he
was a Managing Director at Lehman Brothers where he was
responsible for the company s preferred stock sales and
trading area. Over the past 10 years, Mr. Gale has
served as a Director on the Boards of several publicly traded
companies, including Flaherty & Crumrine Preferred Income
Funds, four closed-end mutual funds with combined assets of
approximately $2.5 billion; Stone Container Corporation, a
company in the paper industry with operations in the U.S. and
overseas; FreeRealTime.com, an Internet-based financial media
company; and Golden State Vintners, a California wine-processing
company.

Mr. Greene  has served as a Director of the Company
since October 2002 when the Company appointed him as a director
pursuant to an agreement between the Company and Elliott
Associates, a shareholder of the Company. Mr. Greene is the
Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of Greene Rees
Technologies, LLC, a corporation specializing in advanced
technology for the security industry. In addition,
Mr. Greene owns AKG Consulting Partners, Ltd., a
private consulting firm. Mr. Greene is also a Director of
Enduro Medical Technologies Inc., a medical equipment supplier,
Intellicorp Inc., a software development company and Connecticut
Innovations, a fund investing in Connecticut-based technology
companies. Previously, Mr. Greene served as the Chief
Financial Officer of International Telecommunication Data
Systems, Inc. Prior to this position, he had over twenty years
of experience as a Managing Partner at Price Waterhouse.
Mr. Greene is a member of the Compensation and Audit
Committees. He was also a member of the special board committee
formed in July 2004 to evaluate strategic transactions
( Special Committee ).

Mr. Harley  has served as a Director of the Company
since October 10, 2006. Mr. Harley is Co-Portfolio
Manager and Chief Investment Officer of Mellon HBV, an
investment adviser, and is principally responsible for the
investment decisions for Mellon HBV. Before forming Mellon HBV
in 2002, Mr. Harley was the Head of Research at Milton
Partners LLC. Mr. Harley joined Milton Partners LLC in
1996, where he concentrated on analyzing investment
opportunities, developing new investment strategies and managing
the overall direction of the risk arbitrage portfolio. Before
joining Milton, Mr. Harley was a Vice President and
Director of Allen & Company Inc., where he was
responsible for the
 day-to -day management
and investment strategies of the arbitrage department with
assets under management in excess of $150 million.

Mr. Henderson  has served as a Director of the
Company since June 2004, when the Company appointed him as a
Director pursuant to an agreement between the Company and
certain holders of the Company s Preferred Stock.
Mr. Henderson is the principal of Capital Dynamics
International, a consulting firm focused on the information
communications technology sector, providing strategic planning
and enterprise solutions for corporate and government clients.
Before founding Capital Dynamics in 1990, Mr. Henderson
held executive positions with Illinois Bell and AT&T. He was
a member of the Special Committee.

153

Table of Contents   

Mr. Johnson  has served as a Director of the Company
since 1990. Mr. Johnson is also the non-executive Chairman
of PSS World Medical, a distributor of healthcare products to
physicians and eldercare facilities, and a Director of that
company serving on the Corporate Governance, Executive and
Compensation Committees. In addition, Mr. Johnson is the
non-executive Chairman of Refac Optical Inc., a retail optical
business and its Director, serving on the Compensation
Committee. Mr. Johnson is also a Director of Neurologix,
Inc., a publicly traded development stage biotechnology company.
In addition, Mr. Johnson serves on the Boards of three
private companies, World Factory, Inc., an international
sourcing and product development company, Brain Twist, Inc., a
developer of specialty soft drinks, coffees and teas, and Lydian
Trust Company, a diversified financial services company.
Mr. Johnson is Chairman of the Company s Audit
Committee and a member of the Compensation and Nominating
Committees.

Mr. Pompadur  has served as a Director of the Company
since September 1999 and prior to that was a Director of PLD
Telekom, Inc. since May 1998. In June 1998, Mr. Pompadur
joined News Corporation as Executive Vice President, President
of News Corporation Eastern and Central Europe and as a member
of News Corporation s Executive Management Committee. In
January 2000, Mr. Pompadur was appointed Chairman of News
Corp. Europe. He is a Director of elong, Inc., an online travel
service provider in China, serving on its Audit Committee;
Nexstar Broadcasting Group, Inc., serving on its Audit
Committee; and News Corporation s subsidiaries News Out of
Home B.V., Balkan Bulgarian and SKY Italia. Mr. Pompadur is
a member of the Compensation Committee.

Mr. Subotnick  has served as a Director of the
Company since 1995. He served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company (from December 1996 until November 2001)
and as Vice Chairman of the Company s Board of Directors
(from November 1995 until November 2001). Mr. Subotnick has
served as Executive Vice President of Metromedia Company and its
 predecessor-in -interest,
Metromedia, Inc., for over five years. He is a Director of
AboveNet, Inc. and Carnival Cruise Lines, Inc.
Mr. Subotnick is Chairman of the Executive Committee and
was a member of the Special Committee.

Mr. White  has served as a Director of the Company
since 1995. Mr. White has served as President and Chief
Executive Officer of Rigel Enterprises, Inc., a management and
private investment firm, since July 1997. Prior to that,
Mr. White was President and Chief Executive Officer of
Orion Pictures Corporation and Metromedia Entertainment Group.
Mr. White is Chairman of the Compensation Committee and a
member of the Audit Committee.

The Board of Directors, which presently consists of nine
members, is divided into three classes. Class I Directors
were elected for a term expiring at the 2005 annual meeting of
stockholders; Class II Directors were elected for a term
expiring at the 2006 annual meeting; and Class III
Directors were elected for a term expiring at the 2004 annual
meeting. Members of each class hold office until their
successors are elected and qualified. As the Company did not
hold an annual meeting of stockholders in 2004 and 2005, the
terms of Class I Directors, Class II Directors and
Class III Directors shall expire at the 2006 annual meeting.

The successors of the class of directors whose term expires at
that meeting will be elected by a plurality vote of all votes
cast at such meeting and will hold office for a three-year term,
except that the next term for both of the Class III
Directors and Class I Directors will be less than three
years. The Class III Directors term will expire at the
annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2007 and the
Class I Directors term will expire at the annual meeting of
stockholders to be held in 2008. Class I Directors, whose
term expired at the 2005 annual meeting of stockholders, are
Stuart Subotnick, Alan Greene and Mark Hauf. Class II
Directors, whose term expires at the 2006 annual meeting of
stockholders, are I. Martin Pompadur and Leonard White.
Class III, whose term expired at the 2004 annual meeting of
stockholders, are Clark A. Johnson, John S. Chalsty, David Gale
and Wayne Henderson. Pursuant to an agreement between the
Company and certain holders of the Preferred Stock representing
discretionary authority (including the power to vote) with
regard to 2.4 million shares or approximately 58% of the
outstanding 4.1 million shares of Preferred Stock (the
 Participating Preferred Stock Holders ), in June
2004, the Participating Preferred Stock Holders identified
Messrs. Gale and Henderson as director candidates and the
Company s Board of Directors thereafter appointed them as
Class III Directors. At the Company s next annual
meeting of stockholders, the holders of

154

Table of Contents   

Preferred Stock will have the right to vote separately as a
class for the election of two new directors. Once elected to the
Board of Directors by the holders of Preferred Stock, these
directors will not be part of any of the three classes of
directors and will hold office until the next annual meeting of
stockholders or such time as the Company becomes current in its
payment of accrued and unpaid dividends to preferred
stockholders, whichever occurs sooner.

On October 10, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company
temporarily expanded the size of the Board and appointed William
F. Harley, III to the Board as an independent Class I
Director with a term expiring at the 2006 annual meeting of
stockholders. At the 2006 annual stockholders meeting, the size
of the Board of Directors will be reduced to nine members, all
of whom will be up for election, and the holders of the
Company s preferred stock will have the right to vote
separately as a class for the election of two of the nine
director positions.

Audit Committee Members and Financial Expert 

The Company has a separately designated standing audit committee
established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the
Exchange Act. As indicated above, Messrs. Greene, Johnson
and White comprise the Audit Committee. Each of these Directors
meets the  independence requirements  set forth in the
applicable rules and regulations of the SEC.

Currently, the Board of Directors has not designated a member of
the Audit Committee as the  audit committee financial
expert  as that term is defined by the applicable rules and
regulations of the SEC as none of the Directors consented to
serve in this capacity. However, the Board of Directors believes
that each of the members of the Audit Committee have sufficient
financial expertise and experience to effectively and
competently discharge such director s responsibilities and
duties as a member of the Audit Committee.

Company Code of Ethics 

A current copy of the Company s Code of Ethics, which
applies to the Company s Principal Executive Officer and
Senior Financial Officers, satisfies the SEC s requirements
for a  code of ethics  and has been filed as an
exhibit to the
Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2003. If the Company amends any
provision of its Code of Ethics that is required under the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if a waiver of any such provision
is granted to an executive officer, the notice of such amendment
(other than technical, administrative, and other non-substantive
amendments), or waiver will be filed on a Current Report on
Form  8-K  with the
SEC. While the Board or the Audit Committee may consider a
waiver for an executive officer, the Company does not expect to
grant any such waivers.

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance 

Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires that the
Company s directors and executive officers, and persons who
beneficially own more than 10% of the outstanding common stock,
file with the SEC initial reports of beneficial ownership and
reports of changes in beneficial ownership of the common stock.
Such officers, directors and greater than 10% stockholders are
required by the regulations of the SEC to furnish us with copies
of all reports that they file under Section 16(a). To the
Company s knowledge, based solely on a review of the copies
of such reports furnished to us and written representations that
no other reports were required, all Section 16(a) filing
requirements applicable to the Company s officers,
directors and greater than 10% beneficial owners were complied
with by such persons during the year ended December 31,
2004, except that Form 3 reports were inadvertently filed
late for Messrs. Henderson, Gale, Lee and Koresh and a
Form 4 report was inadvertently filed late for Metromedia
Company. In addition, on May 17, 2005,
Messrs. Subotnick and Kluge filed amendments correcting and
updating their respective August 8, 2002 Form 4
reports.

155

Table of Contents   

Item 11.  
     
      Executive Compensation   

Summary Compensation Table 

The following Summary Compensation Table sets forth information
on compensation awarded to, earned by or paid to the Chief
Executive Officer and the Company s other most highly
compensated executive officers for services rendered to us and
the Company s business ventures during the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

(1)  
     
    Mark S. Hauf was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors,
    President and Chief Executive Officer on February 25, 2003.
    Prior to that time, Mr. Hauf was the Chief Operating
    Officer of MITI since February 2002. Prior to that he served as
    President of Metromedia China Corporation since 1998. 

(2)  
     
    Harold F. Pyle, III was appointed Executive Vice President
    Finance in October 2003. Prior to that time, Mr. Pyle
    served as Senior Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer
    and Treasurer since February 19, 2002. 

(3)  
     
    B. Dean Elledge was appointed Chief Accounting Officer and
    Assistant Treasurer in October 2003. Prior to that time,
    Mr. Elledge served as Vice President Finance and Financial
    Reporting since March 18, 2002. 

(4)  
     
    Natalia Alexeeva was appointed Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary in November 2003. Prior to that time,
    Ms. Alexeeva served as Vice President and Assistant General
    Counsel of MITI since August 2000. 

(5)  
     
    Victor Koresh was appointed Vice President of
    Operations   Russia in September 2003. Prior to that
    time, Mr. Koresh served as General Director of PeterStar
    since May 2001. Mr. Koresh resigned as Vice President of
    Operations   Russia on August 1, 2005, in
    connection with the completion of the PeterStar sale. 

156

Table of Contents   

(6)  
     
    The amount in 2004 consists of $126,313 as payment for
    Mr. Hauf s living expenses in Russia and $39,846 of
    tax equalization payments made on behalf of Mr. Hauf (in
    each case, as required under the terms of Mr. Hauf s
    employment agreement). The 2004 living expense amount included
    $22,000 in tuition reimbursement for his child in Moscow,
    Russia. The 2003 and 2002 amounts consist of payments for
    Mr. Hauf s living expenses in Russia, and the 2002
    amount also includes Mr. Hauf s commuting related
    expenses from his home to the Company s office. Further, as
    the commuting and living expenses were considered taxable fringe
    benefits, the Company
     grossed-up  the benefits
    for federal and state compensation taxes purposes and the
     gross-up  payments are
    included in the amounts reported. 

(7)  
     
    The amounts in 2003 and 2002 consist of amounts that were
    processed associated with Mr. Pyle s weekly commuting
    related expenses from his home to the Company s New York
    Office (including reasonable weekly airfare and lodging
    expenditures while in New York). These amounts were considered
    taxable fringe benefits, the Company
     grossed-up  the benefits
    for federal and state compensation taxes purposes and the
     gross-up  payments are
    included in the amounts reported. 

(8)  
     
    The amounts in 2004, 2003 and 2002 consist of
    Mr. Elledge s temporary living expenses in Charlotte
    and New York (including monthly lodging and occasional airfare
    expenditures). The temporary living expenses were considered
    taxable fringe benefits, the Company
     grossed-up  the benefits
    for federal and state compensation taxes purposes and the
     gross-up  payments are
    included in the amounts reported. 

(9)  
     
    The 2004 amount consists of Ms. Alexeeva s temporary
    living expenses in Charlotte, North Carolina. The temporary
    living expenses were considered taxable fringe benefits, the
    Company  grossed-up  the
    benefits for federal and state compensation taxes purposes and
    the  gross-up  payments
    are included in the amounts reported. 

(10)  
     
    This amount represents compensation for unused vacation. 

(11)  
     
    The Company has not awarded restricted stock to the executives
    included within the table. 

(12)  
     
    These amounts represent the employer match on
    Mr. Hauf s 401(k) contributions. 

(13)  
     
    The 2004 amount includes payment for Mr. Pyle s unused
    2003 vacation. The 2003 amount includes a severance payment
    pursuant to a retention agreement that Mr. Pyle entered
    into with the Company on March 27, 2003, as a result of his
    employment being terminated by the Company effective
    August 31, 2003. Subsequent to August 2003, Mr. Pyle
    and the Company entered into a new agreement for the
    continuation of his employment (described below). Also included
    in 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounts is the employer match on
    Mr. Pyle s 401(k) plan contribution. 

(14)  
     
    The 2004 amount includes payment for Mr. Elledge s
    unused 2003 vacation and relocation expenses incurred by
    Mr. Elledge to move his primary residence to Charlotte,
    North Carolina. The relocation expenses were considered taxable
    fringe benefits, and the Company
     grossed-up  the benefits
    for federal and state compensation taxes purposes. The
     gross-up  payments are
    included in the amounts reported. The 2003 amount includes a
    severance payment pursuant to a retention agreement that
    Mr. Elledge entered into with the Company on March 27,
    2003, as a result of his employment being terminated by the
    Company effective August 31, 2003. Subsequent to August
    2003, Mr. Elledge and the Company entered into a new
    agreement for the continuation of his employment (described
    below). Also included in 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounts is the
    employer match on Mr. Elledge s 401(k) plan
    contribution. 

(15)  
     
    The 2004 amount includes payment for Ms. Alexeeva s
    unused 2003 vacation and relocation expenses incurred by
    Ms. Alexeeva to move her primary residence to Charlotte,
    North Carolina. The relocation expenses were considered taxable
    fringe benefits, and the Company
     grossed-up  the benefits
    for federal and state compensation taxes purposes. The
     gross-up  payments are
    included in the amounts reported. The 2004 and 2003 amounts
    include the first and second installments of a payment pursuant
    to a retention agreement that Ms. Alexeeva entered into
    with the Company on November 3, 2003, as a result of her
    employment being terminated by the Company effective
    May 31, 2004. In May 2004, Ms. Alexeeva and the
    Company entered into a new agreement for the continuation of her
    employment (described below). Also, included in 2004, 2003 and
    2002 amounts is the employer match on Ms. Alexeeva s
    401(k) plan contribution. 

157

Table of Contents   

Option/SAR Grants 

During the Year Ended December 31, 2004 

There were no grants of stock options by the Company pursuant to
its 1996 Incentive Stock Plan or otherwise to the named
executive officers during fiscal year 2004.

Aggregated Option and SAR Exercises in Fiscal 2004 

and Fiscal Year-End Option and SAR Values 

The following table sets forth information concerning the
exercise of options or SARs by the named executive officers
during fiscal year 2004 and the number of unexercised options
and SARs held by such officers at the end of fiscal year 2004.

Number of Securities    

Underlying Unexercised    
       
      Value of Unexercised in the    

Value Realized    
       
      Options/SARs at    
       
      Money Options/SARs at    

Shares    
       
      (Market Price at    
       
      Fiscal Year End (#)    
       
      Fiscal Year End ($)(1)    

Acquired on    
       
      Exercise Less    

Name  
       
      Exercise    
       
      Exercise Price)    
       
      Exercisable    
       
      Unexercisable    
       
      Exercisable    
       
      Unexercisable    

Mark S. Hauf

Harold F. Pyle, III

60,000 

40,000 

$ 
     12,000 

$ 
     8,000 

B. Dean Elledge

Natalia Alexeeva

Victor Koresh

Compensation of Directors 

During fiscal year 2004, each of the directors that were not
employed by the Company or affiliated with Metromedia Company
received a $2,000 monthly retainer and was entitled to
receive a separate attendance fee for each meeting of the Board
of Directors or a committee of the Company s Board of
Directors in which such director participated. During fiscal
year 2004, the attendance fees were $1,200 for each meeting of
the Company s Board of Directors attended by a non-employee
director in person and $500 for each meeting of the
Company s Board of Directors in which a non-employee
director participated by conference call. Members of committees
of the Company s Board of Directors are paid $500 for each
meeting attended, except that members of the Special Committee
were paid $1,500 for each meeting attended in person or by
conference call.

Executive Transaction Bonus Agreements, Employment
Agreements, Special Bonus Award Agreements and Incentive Bonus
Agreements 

Transaction Bonus Agreements   

On March 1, 2005, the Company entered into a Transaction
Bonus Agreement with Victor Koresh, the Company s Vice
President of Operations   Russia from September 2003
through August 2005. On March 8, 2005, the Company entered
into Transaction Bonus Agreements with each of Mr. Hauf and
Ms. Alexeeva. On July 29, 2005, the Company entered
into Transaction Bonus Agreements with each of Mr. Pyle and
Mr. Elledge.

158

Table of Contents   

Transaction Bonus Agreements with Messrs. Hauf, Pyle
    and Elledge and with Ms. Alexeeva   

Under the Transaction Bonus Agreements with Messrs. Hauf,
Pyle and Elledge and with Ms. Alexeeva, each executive is
entitled to the following compensation and benefits:

Transaction Bonus Amount.  In light of the Company s
    consummation of the sale of its entire interest in PeterStar
    before September 30, 2005 at a purchase price of
    $215 million, each executive became entitled to cash
    bonuses in the following amounts: (i) $6,883,333 for
    Mr. Hauf; (ii) $833,333 for Mr. Pyle; and
    (iii) $466,667 for each of Mr. Elledge and
    Ms. Alexeeva. 

Transaction Bonus Payment Schedule.  Each executive was
    entitled to payment of his or her cash bonus as follows: 50% on
    the closing of the PeterStar sale, 25% six-months after closing
    and the remaining 25% on the first anniversary of closing,
    subject to each executive s continued employment with the
    Company as of each such date. In light of the Company s
    consummation of the PeterStar sale on August 1, 2005, the
    first tranche of the bonus payments was paid to Messer s
    Hauf, Pyle and Elledge and Ms. Alexeeva on August 4,
    2005, the second tranche was paid to these executives on
    February 1, 2006 and the final installment was paid on
    August 2, 2006. 

Effect on Severance and Change of Control Provisions in
    Mr. Hauf s Employment Agreement.  Because the
    PeterStar Sale was consummated on or before September 30,
    2005, the severance provisions of Mr. Hauf s
    employment agreement are null and void as of the date of such
    consummation (August 1, 2005). 

Effect on Severance and Change of Control Provisions in
    Employment Agreements for Messrs. Pyle and Elledge and
    Ms. Alexeeva.  If any of Messrs. Pyle or Elledge or
    Ms. Alexeeva is terminated by the Company without Cause at
    any time after the PeterStar Sale, then, to the extent such
    executive would be entitled to severance under his or her
    employment agreement, including any enhanced severance payable
    upon such a termination that occurs following a  Change of
    Control,  (as defined in each executive s employment
    agreement), such severance payment shall be reduced by the full
    amount of the bonus under the applicable Transaction Bonus
    Agreement. Each of these executives  Transaction Bonus
    Agreements provides that (i) a sale of PeterStar that
    triggers payment of the bonus under the agreement and
    (ii) the occurrence of a Change of Control under the
    executive s employment agreement, are mutually exclusive
    such that any single transaction may not constitute both a
    Change of Control and a transaction triggering the bonus payment
    under the Transaction Bonus Agreement. 

Gross-Up for  Golden Parachute  Excise Taxes. 
    To the extent that any amounts payable to each executive whether
    under each executive s Transaction Bonus Agreement or
    otherwise, are subject to any excise taxes, the Company has
    agreed to  gross up  all such amounts in an amount
    equal to the excise taxes imposed, including any excise taxes
    imposed on the  gross up  payments, and any interests
    and penalties associated with such excise taxes. Provisions in
    employment agreements with Messrs. Pyle and Elledge and
    Ms. Alexeeva (described below) that provide that amounts
    payable to such executives will be reduced to the extent they
    would result in such excise taxes (referred to herein as
     cutback provisions ) are superseded and replaced by
    the  gross-up  provisions
    in the Transaction Bonus Agreements described in the preceding
    sentence. 

Restrictive Covenants for Mr. Hauf.  Pursuant to
    Mr. Hauf s Transaction Bonus Agreement, the Company
    has waived its rights under certain restrictive covenants in
    Mr. Hauf s employment agreement (in exchange for which
    Mr. Hauf has waived his right to severance under the
    employment agreement, on the terms described above), and
    Mr. Hauf has agreed to instead be bound by certain
    restrictive covenants set forth in the Transaction Bonus
    Agreement. The restrictive covenants in the Transaction Bonus
    Agreement are in effect commencing on March 8, 2005 and
    remain in effect during Mr. Hauf s employment and for
    two years following termination of his employment for any
    reason. These restrictive covenants prohibit him from, among
    other things, materially competing with the Company,
    intentionally interfering with material business relationships
    of the Company, disparaging or making certain other public
    statements about the Company, soliciting business from customers
    or 

159

Table of Contents   

suppliers of the Company, soliciting for employment or employing
    certain employees of the Company or requesting any employee to
    leave the employ of the Company. 

Transaction Bonus Agreement with Victor Koresh   

Under the terms of Mr. Koresh s Transaction Bonus
Agreement, he was entitled to the following compensation and
benefits:

Transaction Bonus.  In connection with the consummation of
    the PeterStar Sale, the Company paid Mr. Koresh a lump sum
    cash bonus in an amount equal to U.S. $1,000,000. 

Termination of Employment Agreement. 
    Mr. Koresh s employment with the Company and his
    employment agreement with the Company (which is described below)
    was terminated pursuant to the terms of his Transaction Bonus
    Agreement as of the date of consummation of the PeterStar Sale
    (except that certain covenants protecting the Company s
    confidential information and intellectual property rights shall
    survive such termination, in accordance with their terms). 

Employment Agreements   

We have entered into employment agreements with each of our
named executive officers and with Victor Koresh, the
Company s former Vice President of Operations  
Russia, the material terms of which are described below.

Employment
Agreements with Messrs. Hauf, Pyle and Elledge and
Ms. Alexeeva  

Term.  The employment agreements are in effect until
    terminated either by the Company or by the executive. 

Base Salary.  The annual base salaries under the
    employment agreements are (i) $550,000 for Mr. Hauf,
    (ii) $350,000 for Mr. Pyle, and (iii) $200,000
    for each of Mr. Elledge and Ms. Alexeeva. These
    salaries may not be decreased during the terms of the employment
    agreements. 

Bonus.  Each executive is eligible for a discretionary
    bonus, but the Company is not obligated to pay the executives
    any bonus. 

Employee Benefits.  Each executive is entitled to the
    following employee benefits: (i) 25 days of paid
    vacation per year, (ii) reimbursement of reasonable
    expenses incurred in connection with the services performed
    under the employment agreement, including, without limitation,
    expenses for entertainment, travel, hotel accommodations and
    similar items, and (iii) participation in all pension and
    welfare programs made available to senior executives of the
    Company. 

Perquisites for Mr. Hauf.  Mr. Hauf s
    employment agreement provides for the use by Mr. Hauf of an
    apartment at the Company s foreign operating location (or,
    at Mr. Hauf s election, reimbursement for expenses
    incurred by him for the rental, lease or purchase of comparable
    housing, not to exceed $98,000 per year), tuition
    reimbursement for his child s private school up to
    $25,000 per year and a car and driver for Mr. Hauf and
    his family s use in foreign locations where they may
    occasionally reside. Mr. Hauf s principal work
    location from 2002 and until August 2005 was Moscow, Russia.
    Mr. Hauf s principal work location since August 2005
    is Tbilisi, Georgia, where he and his family reside. In
    connection with Mr. Hauf s relocation to Tbilisi,
    Georgia in August 2005, Mr. Hauf s employment
    agreement was amended on November 1, 2005, to increase the
    reimbursement for his housing expenses to $144,000 per
    annum and reimbursement for tuition expenses for his
    child s private school up to $30,000 per annum. 

Tax Equalization for Mr. Hauf.  In view of the
    foreign tax obligations that he would otherwise personally
    incur, Mr. Hauf s employment agreement provides that
    the Company will ensure that he 

160

Table of Contents   

bears a total income tax burden in respect of his base salary
    and any incentive compensation paid to him pursuant to the
    employment agreement which is approximately equal in amount to
    that which he would bear if working solely in the U.S. by
    paying or otherwise offsetting his total tax obligations in
    respect of base salary and incentive compensation in all
    jurisdictions exceeding the amount he would be responsible for
    if working solely in the U.S. The Company is also
    responsible for payment of taxes, if any, assessed against
    Mr. Hauf in any jurisdiction with respect to the
    Company s (i) provision of or payment for housing,
    (ii) payment or reimbursement of travel, lodging or other
    business expenses, (iii) reimbursement of child education
    expenses, and (iv) payment or reimbursement of expenses in
    connection with preparation of tax filings. 

Severance for Mr. Hauf.  Because the PeterStar Sale
    was consummated on or before September 30, 2005, under
    Mr. Hauf s Transaction Bonus Agreement (described
    above), Mr. Hauf has agreed to waive his right to severance
    under his employment agreement. 

Severance for Messrs. Pyle and Elledge and
    Ms. Alexeeva.  If the Company terminates any of these
    executives  employment without Cause, the Company must pay
    the executive an amount equal to the greater of
    (i) 12 months of base salary or (ii) one month of
    base salary for every full or partial year of service with the
    Company since the start date. A termination without Cause may
    only be effected upon a vote of the majority of the Board and
    with 30 days  prior notice. The Company will also pay
    the executive s and his or her family s continuing
    health insurance coverage under COBRA until the earlier of
    (i) the expiration of the period of time represented by the
    severance payment described above or, if payment is made on a
    lump-sum basis, the expiration of the period of time represented
    by such payment as measured by the executive s base salary,
    and (ii) the date the executive ceases for any reason to be
    eligible for continuation of group health insurance coverage
    under COBRA. Messrs. Pyle, Elledge and Alexeeva were also
    entitled to severance upon a termination of employment by each
    executive for  Good Reason  (as defined in each
    executive s employment agreement); however, their
    employment agreements were amended to remove the Good Reason
    trigger for severance (as described above). As described in the
    summary of the executives  Transaction Bonus Agreements,
    above, since the executive received a bonus pursuant to the
    Transaction Bonus Agreement, if the executive subsequently is
    entitled to severance under his or her employment agreement, the
    amount of severance payable under the employment agreement shall
    be offset by the full amount of the bonus payable under the
    applicable Transaction Bonus Agreement. 

Change of Control Provision in Mr. Hauf s
    Employment Agreement.  Because the PeterStar Sale was
    consummated on or before September 30, 2005, under
    Mr. Hauf s Transaction Bonus Agreement (described
    above) Mr. Hauf has agreed to waive his employment
    agreement provisions regarding severance following a
     Change of Control , (as defined in his employment
    agreement). 

Change of Control Provision in Employment Agreements with
    Messrs. Pyle and Elledge and Ms. Alexeeva.  If
    within 12 months following a  Change of Control 
    (as defined in each executive s employment agreement), the
    Company terminates the executive s agreement for any reason
    other than death, disability or Cause, the Company must pay the
    executive a lump-sum amount equal to two years of base salary.
    As described in the summary of the executives  Transaction
    Bonus Agreements, above, since the executive received a bonus
    pursuant to the Transaction Bonus Agreement, if the executive is
    subsequently entitled to this enhanced severance following a
    Change of Control, the amount of the enhanced severance payable
    under the employment agreement shall be offset by the full
    amount of the bonus payable under the Transaction Bonus
    Agreement. As described above, each executive s Transaction
    Bonus Agreement provides that (i) a sale of PeterStar that
    triggers payment of the bonus under the Transaction Bonus
    Agreement and (ii) the occurrence of a Change of Control
    under the executive s employment agreement, are mutually
    exclusive such that any single transaction may not constitute
    both a Change of Control and a transaction triggering the bonus
    payment under the Transaction Bonus Agreement. Cutback
    provisions in these executives  employment agreements are
    superseded and replaced by the
     gross-up  provisions in
    the Transaction Bonus Agreements described in the preceding
    sentence. 

161

Table of Contents   

Release.  All amounts payable to each executive in
    connection with their termination of employment are conditioned
    on each executive s execution of a release of claims
    against the Company and its affiliates and their respective
    officers, directors, employees, shareholders, agents, successors
    and assigns with respect to matters covered by the employment
    agreements or arising out of the executives  employment
    with the Company. 

Restrictive Covenants.  During each executive s
employment and for one year thereafter, each executive is
restricted from (i) materially competing with the Company,
(ii) intentionally interfering with material business
relationships of the Company, (iii) disparaging or making
certain other public statements about the Company,
(iv) soliciting business from customers or suppliers of the
Company, and (v) soliciting for employment or employing
certain employees of the Company or requesting any employee to
leave the employ of the Company. For Mr. Pyle, the above
covenants apply during his employment and for one year after
termination of employment, unless such termination is by the
Company without Cause, in which case, Mr. Pyle shall not be
restricted post-termination. (As described in the summary of
Mr. Hauf s Transaction Bonus Agreement above, the
Company has agreed to waive these provisions for Mr. Hauf
since a sale of the Company s entire interest in Peterstar
was consummated on or prior to September 30, 2005.) The
executives are also bound by standard obligations not to
disclose Company confidential information and to protect Company
inventions, licenses, copyrights, trademarks and other
intellectual property.

Amendments to Employment Agreements with Messrs. Pyle
    and Elledge and Ms. Alexeeva   

Concurrent with each of Messrs. Pyle s and
Elledge s and Ms. Alexeeva s execution of such
executive s Transaction Bonus Agreement, each executive and
the Company entered into an amendment to his or her employment
agreement, which includes changes to the following material
provisions of the employment agreement: (i) the
executive s right to terminate employment for Good Reason
and receive severance has been eliminated; and (ii) the
definition of Change of Control in the employment agreement that
includes a sale by the Company of all or substantially all of
its assets has been amended by deleting the phrase  all or
substantially all  and inserting in lieu thereof  more
than 90% (in value) .

Employment Agreement with Mr. Koresh   

Prior to August 1, 2005, Mr. Koresh was party to two
employment agreements, one with the Company s subsidiary
Metromedia International Telecommunication Services, Inc.
( MITSI ) that commenced on October 1, 2003 (the
 MITSI Agreement ), and one with PeterStar that
commenced on January 1, 2004 (the  PeterStar
Agreement ). Collectively, the MITSI Agreement and the
PeterStar Agreement are referred to as the Koresh Agreements.
Each of the Koresh Agreements had or has a term of three years,
with the MITSI Agreement ending on September 30, 2006 and
the PeterStar Agreement ending on December 31, 2006, unless
either agreement is terminated earlier by one of the parties.
Either party had the right to terminate the MITSI Agreement for
any reason by providing 30 days prior written notice. As
described above, under the terms of Mr. Koresh s
Transaction Bonus Agreement, since the sale of PeterStar was
consummated on or prior to September 30, 2005, the MITSI
Agreement has been terminated and is of no further force and
effect.

Salary.  The base salary under the MITSI Agreement was the
    Russian Ruble equivalent of $200,000 per year, to be offset
    by any salary (but not bonuses) received by Mr. Koresh
    under the PeterStar Agreement. The base salary under the
    PeterStar Agreement is the Russian Ruble equivalent of $80,000. 

Bonus.  Under the PeterStar Agreement, Mr. Koresh was
    eligible for additional bonuses based on PeterStar s
    achieving and exceeding certain targets set forth in
    PeterStar s annual business plans. These bonuses may not
    exceed one and one-half times Mr. Koresh s base salary
    under the PeterStar Agreement. 

162

Table of Contents   

Other Employee Benefits.  Under the PeterStar Agreement,
    Mr. Koresh was entitled to receive other employee benefits
    such as a car and driver for business and personal use, medical
    insurance coverage and membership fees for a sport and fitness
    center (not to exceed $3,000 per annum). Under the MITSI
    Agreement, Mr. Koresh is entitled to (i) reimbursement
    of necessary and reasonable business expenses, including
    business travel-related expenses, and (ii) eligibility for
    stock options under a Company option plan, in the discretion of
    the Board. 

Severance.  If PeterStar terminates Mr. Koresh s
    employment under the PeterStar Agreement prior to the end of its
    term for any reason other than cause, Mr. Koresh shall be
    entitled to receive the performance bonuses described above
    based upon PeterStar s performance against its annual
    business plan on a pro rata basis for the year in which
    employment is terminated. If MITSI had terminated
    Mr. Koresh s employment prior to the end of its term
    for any reason other than Mr. Koresh s commission of
    certain designated bad acts (such as fraud or dishonesty, a
    serious crime, gross misconduct or material breach of the MITSI
    Agreement), MITSI would have been required to continue to pay
    Mr. Koresh s base salary for the remainder of the term
    of the MITSI Agreement. Since the sale of PeterStar was
    consummated on or prior to September 30, 2005, the MITSI
    Agreement, including its severance provisions, are no longer
    effective, and Mr. Koresh is not entitled to any severance
    under the MITSI Agreement. 

Change-of -Control-Related
    Provisions.  The MITSI Agreement provided that
    Mr. Koresh has no claim against MITSI or any affiliate by
    reason of the merger, consolidation, continuation, dissolution
    or liquidation of MITSI, or the sale of all or substantially all
    of the assets of MITSI, provided that Mr. Koresh has first
    been offered in writing a new appointment with the successor or
    surviving company on terms no less favorable to him than under
    the MITSI Agreement. This provision is null and void as a result
    of the Transaction Bonus Agreement. 

Restrictive Covenants.  The MITSI Agreement includes
    non-competition, non-solicitation, non-disclosure of
    confidential information, and intellectual property protection
    provisions. Since the MITSI Agreement was terminated in
    connection with a sale of PeterStar, the non-disclosure and
    intellectual property provisions survive in accordance with
    their terms, but the other restrictive covenants are not
    effective post-termination. 

Special Bonus Award Agreements 

On August 9, 2005, the Company entered into Special Bonus
Award Agreements with each of Mr. Pyle and Mr. Elledge.

Bonus Award Agreement with Harold F. Pyle, III   

Under the terms of Mr. Pyle s Bonus Award Agreement,
he is entitled to the following compensation and benefits:

The Company has agreed to pay Mr. Pyle a one-time, lump-sum
    cash bonus equal to $416,500 (the  Pyle Bonus ) as
    soon as reasonably practicable following the first date as of
    which both of the following conditions have been satisfied:
    (x) the Company s annual reports on
    Form  10-K  and
    quarterly reports on
    Form  10-Q  required
    to be filed with the SEC prior to such date have been filed and
    (y) at least 21 calendar days remain prior to the next date
    that the Company is required to file with the SEC any periodic
    report on
    Form  10-K  or
    Form  10-Q  (the
     Pyle Payment Date ). Notwithstanding the foregoing,
    if at any time prior to the Pyle Payment Date
    Mr. Pyle s employment is terminated by the Company
    without  Cause  (as defined in Mr. Pyle s
    employment agreement described above), Mr. Pyle shall be
    entitled to receive the Pyle Bonus as soon as reasonably
    practicable following the date of such termination. This
    agreement will be superseded if a  Sale Transaction 
    (defined below) is entered into by January 31, 2007 and is
    subsequently consummated. 

163

Table of Contents   

Bonus Award Agreement with B. Dean Elledge   

Under the terms of Mr. Elledge s Bonus Award
Agreement, he is entitled to the following compensation and
benefits:

The Company has agreed to pay Mr. Elledge a one-time,
    lump-sum cash bonus equal to $233,000 (the  Elledge
    Bonus ) as soon as reasonably practicable following the
    first date as of which both of the following conditions have
    been satisfied: (x) the Company s annual reports on
    Form  10-K  and
    quarterly reports on
    Form  10-Q  required
    to be filed with the SEC prior to such date have been filed and
    (y) at least 21 calendar days remain prior to the next date
    that the Company is required to file with the SEC any periodic
    report on
    Form  10-K  or
    Form  10-Q  (the
     Elledge Payment Date ). Notwithstanding the
    foregoing, if at any time prior to the Elledge Payment Date
    Mr. Elledge s employment is terminated by the Company
    without  Cause  (as defined in Mr. Elledge s
    employment agreement described above), Mr. Elledge shall be
    entitled to receive the Elledge Bonus as soon as reasonably
    practicable following the date of such termination. 

Incentive Bonus Agreements   

On October 1, 2006, the Company entered into incentive
bonus agreements with each of Messrs. Hauf and Pyle. Under
the agreements, the Company has agreed to pay incentive bonuses
to these executives, the payment of which is contingent on
(1) the Company entering into a definitive agreement to
consummate the proposed strategic sale transaction with the
remaining members of the Offering Group or other sale of the
Company or a transaction pursuant to which the Company sells all
or substantially all of its assets (collectively referred to as
the  Sale Transaction ), by January 31, 2007,
(2) the transaction subsequently closing; (3) the
holders of shares of Preferred Stock receiving an amount equal
to $68.00 per share of Preferred Stock; and (4) the
executive s continued employment with the Company through
the date of the last payment to the holders of Preferred Stock
that results in such holders receiving at least $68.00 per share
(the  Payment Date ). Notwithstanding the requirement
in clause (4) of the preceding sentence, under certain
circumstances, described below, the executives may be entitled
to receive an incentive bonus even if such executive s
employment is terminated before the Payment Date. However, in
any such circumstance, the incentive bonus will not be paid
until the Payment Date, if it occurs; the incentive bonuses are
not payable upon any earlier termination of employment.

The incentive bonus for Mr. Hauf is 3.2% of the gross
proceeds received by the Company or its shareholders in the
applicable sale transaction. If Mr. Hauf s employment
is terminated by the Company without  Cause  or by him
for  Good Reason  (as such terms are defined in his
employment agreement, described above) at any time before the
Payment Date, he will receive his incentive bonus on the Payment
Date, if it occurs. To the extent that any amounts payable to
Mr. Hauf, whether under the incentive bonus agreement or
otherwise, are subject to any  golden parachute 
excise taxes, the Company has agreed to  gross up  all
such amounts in an amount equal to the excise taxes imposed,
including any excise taxes imposed on the  gross up 
payments, and any interests and penalties associated with such
excise taxes.

The incentive bonus for Mr. Pyle, will be $1,000,000. If
Mr. Pyle s employment is terminated by the Company
without  Cause  (as defined in Mr. Pyle s
employment agreement described above) at any time before the
Payment Date, he will receive his incentive bonus on the Payment
Date, if it occurs. Under Mr. Pyle s incentive bonus
agreement, the Special Bonus Award Agreement described above is
superseded if an agreement to consummate the Sale Transaction is
entered into by January 31, 2007 and is subsequently
consummated.

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation 

The Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of
Directors consists of Messrs. Johnson, White, Pompadur and
Greene. The Compensation Committee is comprised entirely of
independent directors and is responsible for developing and
making recommendations to the Company s Board of Directors
with respect to

164

Table of Contents   

the Company s executive compensation policies. The Chairman
of the Compensation Committee is Mr. White.

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT ON COMPENSATION 

The following report of the compensation committee discusses the
Company s historical and present executive compensation
policies.

Background   

The Board of Directors established the Compensation Committee
and charged it with responsibility for implementing and
administering the Company s compensation policies and
programs for the Company s executive officers. The
Compensation Committee is comprised entirely of independent
directors as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Compensation Policies   

The Company s compensation policy for executive officers
provides for (a) competitive base compensation and
employment benefit packages sufficient to attract and retain
superior executive talent, (b) bonuses based on achievement
of financial results, which potentially may represent a
significant portion of total compensation, and
(c) long-term equity-based compensation intended to further
align the interests of executive officers with those of
stockholders and further reward sustained successful
performance. Consistent with this policy, the Company s
executive officers have historically received a base salary,
periodic incentive cash bonus awards and grants of stock
options. However, in consideration of the severe liquidity
issues facing the Company since 2002 and the resulting effect on
the Company s capital stock, executive compensation has
generally been limited to base salary and incentive cash bonus
awards and has excluded equity-based compensation.

In mid-2005, the Compensation Committee retained an independent
compensation consultant to advise the Committee on improving the
compensation policies of the Company for its executive officers
and outside directors. The Committee is currently continuing its
work with the compensation consultant.

Current Employment Agreements with Executive
    Officers   

In 2003, severe liquidity constraints prompted a general Company
restructuring in which most of the corporate-level workforce was
terminated. Remaining executives were provided with base
salaries at levels consistent with former employment agreements.
In October 2003, the Company entered into new employment
agreements with its current Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer and in May 2004
the Company entered into a new employment agreement with its
current General Counsel. The aim of these new executive
employment agreements was to (a) retain these key
executives through at least the successful restructuring of the
Company, (b) acknowledge the risks to sustainable
employment created by the Company s then fragile financial
condition, and (c) accommodate the Company s
limitations with respect to providing equity-based compensation.

Each of these employment agreements contemplated an
 initial term  of three to five years of employment.
Unless terminated for cause or unless the executive voluntarily
resigns, each executive is essentially guaranteed payment of
base salary for or through this  initial term . These
provisions were included due to the significant uncertainties
connected with the Company s ability to continue as a going
concern at the time the agreements were entered into and was a
necessary incentive to secure the executives  commitment to
employment. The agreements also provide for a payment of at
least two years  base salary in the event of a change of
control subsequent to which the executive s employment is
terminated or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer,
materially altered.

165

Table of Contents   

Stock Options   

The Company s 1996 Incentive Stock Plan expired on
January 31, 2006, therefore new options may not be granted
under this plan. However, the Compensation Committee continues
to administer the 1996 Incentive Stock Plan as it relates to
outstanding options.

The Compensation Committee did not award any stock options in
2003, 2004 or 2005, as the Company was undergoing a
restructuring. However, as a matter of policy, the Compensation
Committee believes that the grant of stock options motivates
executives to create long-term growth in stockholder value and
provides an incentive that focuses the executives 
attention on managing the business as owners of an equity stake
in the Company. Pursuant to the Company s 1996 Incentive
Stock Plan, prior to its expiration, options could be granted
periodically at the discretion of the Compensation Committee.
The number of shares of the Company s common stock that
could be subject to options was determined based upon the
Compensation Committee s assessment of the
individual s performance. The Compensation Committee
considered the recommendation of, and relied on information
provided by, the Company s Chief Executive Officer in
determining the number of shares to be subject to option grants
to the non-Chief Executive Officer executive officers.

Transaction Bonus Awards   

In 2004, the Company did not award annual cash bonuses to the
executive officers. Despite significant executive accomplishment
in rebuilding the Company s financial vitality, limited
liquidity argued against granting of cash bonuses.

However, in connection with the sale of the Company s
entire interest in PeterStar and the repayment of the
Company s Senior Notes, the Compensation Committee
recommended to the Board of Directors that the Company award
transaction bonuses to the Chief Executive Officer and certain
other executive officers. Accordingly, in 2005, the Company
entered into transaction bonus agreements with
Messrs. Hauf, Pyle, Elledge and Koresh and
Ms. Alexeeva providing for the payment of cash bonuses upon
the consummation of the sale of PeterStar. These bonuses were
intended to reward the recipients for efforts contributing to
the very attractive PeterStar valuation that was realized in the
sale. The bonuses were paid over a period of time to ensure
retention of these executives after closing of the PeterStar
transaction. In August 2005, upon the sale of PeterStar, the
bonuses became payable to Messrs. Hauf, Pyle, Elledge and
Ms. Alexeeva, in three parts as follows: 50% was paid at
the closing of the sale of PeterStar, 25% was paid six-months
following the closing and the remaining 25% was paid on the
first anniversary of the closing. Mr. Koresh received the
full amount of his bonus at the completion of the sale, as his
employment with the Company was terminated at that time.

In connection with receiving this transaction bonus,
Mr. Hauf agreed to waive his right to receive severance pay
and benefits under his employment agreement, including enhanced
severance for certain employment terminations following a change
of control. In addition, in connection with receiving their
transaction bonuses, Messrs. Pyle and Elledge and
Ms. Alexeeva agreed that any severance pay and benefits to
which they become entitled under their employment agreements,
including enhanced severance for certain employment terminations
following a change of control, will be reduced by the amounts of
their transaction bonuses.

Special Bonus Awards   

In order to further incentivize the Company s Chief
Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, on
August 9, 2005, the Company entered into Special Bonus
Award Agreements with each of Mr. Pyle and
Mr. Elledge. Under the terms of Mr. Pyle s and
Mr. Elledge s Special Bonus Award Agreements,
Mr. Pyle is entitled to a one-time, lump-sum cash bonus of
$416,500, and Mr. Elledge is entitled to a one-time,
lump-sum cash bonus of $233,000, in each case payable as soon as
reasonably practicable following the first date as of which both
of the following conditions have been satisfied: (x) the
Company s annual reports on
Form  10-K  and
quarterly reports on
Form  10-Q  required
to be filed with the SEC prior to such date have been filed and

166

Table of Contents   

(y) at least 21 calendar days remain prior to the next date
that the Company is required to file with the SEC any periodic
report on
Form  10-K  or
Form  10-Q.  These
executives also have severance protection in respect of these
bonuses if their employment is involuntarily terminated before
their bonuses are paid.

Incentive Bonus Awards   

In August 2006, the final installments of the transaction
bonuses described above were paid to the executive officers. On
August 22, 2006, the Compensation Committee authorized, in
connection with the anticipated strategic sale transaction with
the members of the Offering Group, or a similar transaction,
that the Company award incentive bonuses to the executive
officers. The incentive bonuses were subsequently ratified by
the full board of directors at a meeting on August 29,
2006. The incentive bonuses are intended to provide an incentive
for the officers to attain value for the stockholders and
perform their duties to the Company in furtherance of the
Company s efforts to consummate such a transaction. As of
the date of this report, only the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer have executed incentive bonus agreements.

These bonuses are paid only if (a) the Company enters into
a definitive agreement to consummate the proposed strategic sale
transaction with the remaining members of the Offering Group or
any other sale of the Company or transaction pursuant to which
the Company sells all or substantially all of its assets, in
each case, by January 31, 2007, (b) such transaction
subsequently closes; and (c) the holders of shares of
Preferred Stock receive an amount equal to $68.00 per share of
Preferred Stock; and (d) the officer remains employed
through the date of the last payment to the holders of Preferred
Stock that results in such holders receiving at least $68.00 per
share (the  Payment Date ). Messrs. Hauf and Pyle
are entitled to receive these incentive bonuses in connection
with certain involuntary employment terminations occurring
before the Payment Date. If Mr. Pyle becomes entitled to
this incentive bonus, he will not also be entitled to his
special bonus award described above.

Mr. Hauf s incentive bonus is intended to compensate
Mr. Hauf for creating the value in the Company s
securities that the Company expects to realize in connection
with the transaction and provide an incentive for Mr. Hauf
to perform his duties to the Company in furtherance of the
Company s efforts to consummate any such transaction. The
amount of the bonus will be based on the amount of consideration
received by the Company or its shareholders in the sale, and,
specifically, will be 3.2% of the gross proceeds received by the
Company or its shareholders in the transaction. If
Mr. Hauf s employment is involuntarily terminated, he
will be entitled to the incentive bonus when all terms stated
above are met. The Company has also agreed, to the extent any
amounts payable to Mr. Hauf, whether under the incentive
bonus agreement or otherwise, are subject to any  golden
parachute  excise taxes, to  gross up  all such
amounts in an amount equal to the excise taxes imposed,
including any excise taxes imposed on the  gross up 
payments, and any interests and penalties associated with such
excise taxes.

At meetings in October 2006, the Compensation Committee and the
Board of Directors approved certain changes to the terms of
these incentive bonuses to insure that the officers would
receive the bonuses in connection with any alternative
transaction conducted in accordance with Company Chapter 11
bankruptcy proceedings and to take into account possible changes
to agreements between the Company and the holders of its shares
of Preferred Stock. Such changes have not been implemented, and,
as mentioned above, Mr. Elledge and Ms. Alexeeva have
not executed any incentive bonus agreement.

Based on the outcome of recent litigation between the Company
and its stockholders relating to the proposed strategic
transaction, and changes to the terms of such transaction, it is
possible that these incentive bonuses will not be payable. The
Compensation Committee intends to continue to review appropriate
incentive compensation arrangements for the executive officers
in light of recent events.

167

Table of Contents   

Chief Executive Officer Compensation   

The compensation package offered to the Company s Chief
Executive Officer is designed to attract, retain and reward
superior executive talent. The base salary and benefits of the
Chief Executive Officer are competitive with compensation
packages of chief executive officers of telecommunications
businesses with overseas operations. The current Chief Executive
Officer, Mr. Mark Hauf, is compensated pursuant to an
employment agreement entered into on October 6, 2003. This
agreement provides for a base annual salary of $550,000 plus
certain payments intended to compensate Mr. Hauf for his
expenses in connection with his overseas posting. The
Compensation Committee may award Mr. Hauf stock options and
a discretionary cash bonus. Other than the transaction bonus in
connection with the sale of PeterStar, Mr. Hauf has not
received any stock option awards or discretionary bonuses since
he has held the Chief Executive Officer position.

Mr. Hauf s transaction bonus in connection with the
sale of PeterStar was based on the amount of consideration
received by the Company from the sale and is equal to
$6,883,333, of which $3,441,667 was paid in August 2005,
$1,720,833 was paid in February 2006 and $1,720,833 was paid in
August 2006. In connection with receiving this transaction
bonus, Mr. Hauf waived his right to receive the severance
pay and benefits under his employment agreement, including
enhanced severance for certain employment terminations following
a change of control. Further, Mr. Hauf has agreed to be
bound by certain restrictive covenants that prohibit him from,
among other things, materially competing with the Company.

The incentive bonus for Mr. Hauf is payable on the terms
described above.

Personal Income Tax Reimbursement   

Senior executives receive reasonable commuting and other fringe
related expenses and the Company reimburses those executives or
grosses-up those amounts in order to defray the personal income
tax effect, if any, of such payments.

Compliance with Internal Revenue Code
    Section 162(m)   

One of the factors the Compensation Committee considers in
connection with compensation matters is the anticipated tax
treatment to the Company and to the executives of the
compensation arrangements. The deductibility of certain types of
compensation depends upon the timing of an executive s
vesting in, or exercise of, previously granted rights. Moreover,
interpretation of, and changes in, the tax laws and other
factors beyond the Compensation Committee s control also
affect the deductibility of compensation. Accordingly, the
Compensation Committee will not necessarily limit executive
compensation to that deductible under Section 162(m) of the
Code. The Compensation Committee will consider various
alternatives to preserving the deductibility of compensation
payments and benefits to the extent consistent with its other
compensation objectives.

The foregoing report of the Compensation Committee shall not be
deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent that we
specifically incorporate such information by reference, and
shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.

Submitted by the Compensation Committee 

Of our Board of Directors as of December 12, 2006 

Alan K. Greene 

Clark A. Johnson 

Leonard White 

I. Martin Pompadur 

168

Table of Contents   

Other Compensation Arrangements 

The Company has not adopted any other long-term incentive plans,
defined benefit pension plans or other compensation or benefit
plans or arrangements in which the Company s current
executives or directors participate.

Performance Graph 

The Company believes that its performance should be compared to
that of telecommunications companies because the
telecommunications business constitutes the strategic focus of
the Company s business operations. As a result, the
following graph sets forth the Company s total stockholder
return as compared to the Standard & Poor s 500
Index and the NASDAQ Telecommunications Stock Index for the five
year period from January 1, 1999 through December 31,
2004. The total stockholder return assumes $100 invested at the
beginning of the period in the Company s common stock, the
Standard & Poor s 500 Index and the NASDAQ
Telecommunications Index and assumes reinvestment of dividends
paid.

TOTAL STOCKHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPH 

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. vs. 

STANDARD & POOR s 500 INDEX AND 

NASDAQ TELECOMMUNICATIONS INDEX 

169

Table of Contents   

Item 12.  
     
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

The following table sets forth, as of December 8, 2006,
certain information regarding each person, including any
 group  as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3)
of the Exchange Act, known to own  beneficially , as
such term is defined in
Rule  13d-3  under
the Exchange Act, more than 5% of the Company s outstanding
common stock. In accordance with the rules promulgated by the
SEC, such ownership includes shares currently owned as well as
shares which the named person has the right to acquire
beneficial ownership of within 60 days, including shares
which the named person has the right to acquire through the
exercise of any option, warrant or right, or through the
conversion of a security. Accordingly, more than one person may
be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the same securities.

(1)  
     
    Unless otherwise indicated by footnote, the named persons have
    sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares of
    common stock beneficially owned. 

(2)  
     
    The amounts set forth in the table above include
    12,415,455 shares of common stock beneficially owned by
    Messrs. Kluge and Subotnick through Metromedia Company, a
    Delaware general partnership owned and controlled by John W.
    Kluge and Stuart Subotnick. In addition, the amounts set forth
    for Mr. Kluge and Mr. Subotnick include shares owned
    directly by a trust affiliated with Mr. Kluge (the
     Trust ) of which Mr. Subotnick is a trustee. The
    Trust directly owns 5,271,214 shares of common stock (which
    includes, on an as converted basis, 200,000 shares of 7.25%
    cumulative convertible Preferred Stock, that are currently
    convertible into 666,666 shares of common stock) as well as
    presently exercisable options to acquire 1,000,000 shares
    of common stock, at an exercise price of $7.44 per share.
    Mr. Kluge transferred the Preferred Stock and assigned
    these options to the Trust pursuant to an Assignment agreement
    dated on May 3, 2005, with an effective date in 1998.
    Mr. Subotnick disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares
    owned by the Trust. The amount set forth above for
    Mr. Subotnick also includes 314,325 shares of common
    stock owned directly by Mr. Subotnick and currently
    exercisable options to acquire 1,000,000 and 50,000 shares
    of common stock at exercise prices of $7.44 and $9.31,
    respectively, per share. 

170

Table of Contents   

(3)  
     
    Pursuant to a report on Schedule 13D filed with the SEC on
    October 8, 1999 by (i) The News Corporation Limited, a
    South Australia, Australia corporation, with its principal
    executive office located at 2 Holt Street, Sydney, New South
    Wales 2010, Australia, (ii) News America Incorporated, a
    Delaware corporation, with its principal executive office
    located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York
    10036, (iii) News PLD LLC, a Delaware limited liability
    company, with its principal executive office located at 1211
    Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, and
    (iv) K. Rupert Murdoch, a United States citizen, with his
    business address at 10201 West Pico Boulevard, Los Angeles,
    CA 90035. News PLD LLC primarily holds, manages and otherwise
    deals with The News Corporation affiliates  investment in
    the Company. 

(4)  
     
    Pursuant to a report on Schedule 13D filed with the SEC on
    November 22, 2006 by Mellon HBV Alternative Strategies LLC,
    a Delaware limited liability company and Mellon HBV Ltd., a
    Cayman Islands corporation, both with principal executive
    offices at 200 Park Avenue, Suite 3300, New York, New York
    10166. 

(5)  
     
    Pursuant to a report of Schedule 13D/A filed with the SEC
    on December 8, 2006 by (i) D.E. Shaw Laminar
    Portfolio, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company,
    (ii) D.E. Shaw  Co., L.P., a
    Delaware limited partnership, (iii) David E.
    Shaw  Co., L.L.C., a Delaware limited
    liability company and (iv) David E. Shaw, a United
    States citizen, all of which have a business address at
    120 West 45th Street, Tower 45, 39th Floor,
    New York, New York 10036. 

(6)  
     
    Pursuant to a report on Schedule 13D/A filed with the SEC
    on December 8, 2006. The amount set forth in the table
    includes (i) 4,347,328 shares of common stock owned by
    Black Horse Capital LP ( Domestic Fund ),
    (ii) 1,580,345 shares of common stock beneficially
    owned by Black Horse Capital (QP) LP ( QP Fund )
    and (iii) 1,061,231 shares of common stock
    beneficially owned by Black Horse Capital Offshore, Ltd.
    ( Offshore Fund ). Black Horse Capital Management LLC
    ( BH Management ) beneficially owns the shares held by
    the Domestic Fund and the QP Fund. Black Horse Capital
    Advisors LLC ( BH Advisors ) beneficially owns
    the shares held by the Offshore Fund. Mr. Dale Chappell and
    Mr. Brian Sheehy, controlling persons of each of BH
    Management and BH Advisors, are each deemed to beneficially own
    the 6,988,904 shares of common stock owned by BH Management
    and BH Advisors. The amount set forth in the table also includes
    61,397 shares of common stock beneficially owned by
    Mr. Sheehy personally. 

(7)  
     
    Upon a holder s decision to convert shares of the 7.25%
    cumulative convertible Preferred Stock to Common Stock, all
    accrued and/or accumulated dividends are immediately due and
    payable and may be paid, at the Company s option, either in
    cash, in shares of Common Stock or by a combination of cash and
    Common Stock. By way of example only, based on the
    December 31, 2005, conversion value of currently accrued
    and/or accumulated dividends, if the Trust on that date had
    tendered its Preferred Stock and upon such tender the Company
    decided to pay the outstanding dividends with Common Stock, then
    the Trust would have received an additional 273,240 shares
    of Common Stock, which would be in addition to those
    beneficially owned shares as reported for Mr. Kluge and
    Mr. Subotnick. 

The foregoing information is based solely on a review, as of
December 8, 2006, by the Company of statements filed with
the SEC under Sections 13(d) and 13(g) of the Exchange Act.
To the Company s best knowledge, except as set forth above,
no person owns beneficially more than 5% of the Company s
outstanding common stock.

171

Table of Contents   

Securities Beneficially Owned by Directors and Executive
Officers 

The following table sets forth the beneficial ownership of
common stock as of October 31, 2006 with respect to
(i) each director and director nominee, (ii) each
current and former executive officer of the Company named in the
Summary Compensation Table under  Executive
Compensation  and (iii) all directors and executive
officers as a group.

*  
     
    Holdings do not exceed one percent of the total outstanding
    shares of common stock. 

172

Table of Contents   

(8)  
     
    Includes 12,415,455 shares of common stock beneficially
    owned by Mr. Kluge and Mr. Subotnick through
    Metromedia Company, a Delaware general partnership owned and
    controlled by Messrs. Kluge and Subotnick. In addition, the
    amounts set forth for Mr. Subotnick include shares directly
    owned by a trust affiliated with Mr. Kluge (the
     Trust ) of which Mr. Subotnick is a trustee. The
    Trust directly owns 5,271,214 shares of common stock (which
    includes, on an as converted basis, 200,000 shares of 7.25%
    cumulative convertible Preferred Stock, which are currently
    convertible into 666,666 shares of common stock) as well as
    presently exercisable options to acquire 1,000,000 shares
    of common stock, at an exercise price of $7.44 per share.
    Mr. Kluge transferred the Preferred Stock and assigned
    these options to the Trust pursuant to an Assignment agreement
    dated on May 3, 2005, with an effective date of 1998.
    Mr. Subotnick disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares
    owned by the Trust. The amount set forth for Mr. Subotnick
    also includes 314,325 shares of common stock owned directly
    by Mr. Subotnick and currently exercisable options to
    acquire 1,000,000 and 50,000 shares of common stock at
    exercise prices of $7.44 and $9.31, respectively, per share. 

(9)  
     
    Includes currently exercisable options to acquire 50,000;
    50,000; 5,000; and 10,000 shares of common stock at
    exercise prices of $9.625; $2.80; $11.875; and $0.50 per
    share, respectively, under the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan. 

(10)  
     
    Includes currently exercisable options to acquire shares of
    common stock in the amounts and at the exercise prices set forth
    in the footnotes above, and also includes, on an as converted
    basis, 221,000 shares of 7.25% cumulative convertible
    Preferred Stock, which are currently convertible into
    736,666 shares of common stock. 

(11)  
     
    Upon a holder s decision to convert shares of the 7.25%
    cumulative convertible Preferred Stock to Common Stock, all
    accrued and/or accumulated dividends are immediately due and
    payable and may be paid, at the Company s option, either in
    cash, in shares of Common Stock or by a combination of cash and
    Common Stock. By way of example only, based on the
    December 31, 2005, conversion value of currently accrued
    and/or accumulated dividends, if the Trust on that date had
    tendered its Preferred Stock and upon such tender the Company
    decided to pay the outstanding dividends with Common Stock, then
    the Trust would have received an additional 331,813 shares
    of Common Stock, which would be in addition to those
    beneficially owned shares as reported for Mr. Subotnick.
    Were Mr. Gale to have tendered his Preferred Stock under
    the same conditions, then Mr. Gale would have received an
    additional 30,278 shares of Common Stock, which would be in
    addition to those beneficially owned shares as reported for
    Mr. Gale. 

Equity Compensation Plan Information 

For information regarding compensation plans (including
individual compensation arrangements) under which equity
securities of the Company are authorized for issuance,  (see
 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities ). 

Item 13.  
     
      Certain Relationship and Related Transactions   

Relationship with Metromedia Company 

Metromedia Company and its affiliates are collectively the
Company s largest stockholder, beneficially holding
20,050,994 shares of the Company s common stock,
representing approximately 21.3% of the Company s
outstanding common stock at December 31, 2004. The Company
is party to certain agreements and arrangements with Metromedia
Company and its affiliates, the material terms of which are
summarized below.

Consulting Agreement   

Metromedia Company provided certain consulting services to the
Company on an hourly basis as requested by the Company in the
areas of tax, legal and investor relations pursuant to a
Consulting Services

173

Table of Contents   

Agreement (the  CSA ). For the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company paid
Metromedia Company consulting fees of $0.2 million,
$0.3 million and $0.8 million, respectively pursuant
to the CSA. Approximately 50% and 49% of fees paid in 2004 were
related to general managerial services and tax services,
respectively, with the remaining for legal and other services.

Services provided by Metromedia Company pursuant to the CSA have
been provided as requested by the Company and have been invoiced
to the Company at agreed-upon hourly rates. There is no minimum
required level of services. The Company has also been obligated
to reimburse Metromedia Company for all of its
 out-of -pocket costs and
expenses incurred and advances paid by Metromedia Company in
connection with services performed by it under the CSA. Pursuant
to the agreement, the Company agreed to indemnify and hold
Metromedia Company harmless from and against any and all
damages, liabilities, losses, claims, actions, suits,
proceedings, fees, costs or expenses (including reasonable
attorneys  fees and other costs and expenses incident to
any suit, proceeding or investigation of any kind) imposed on,
incurred by or asserted against Metromedia Company in connection
with the agreement, other than those in any way relating to or
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of
Metromedia Company, its employees, consultants or other
representatives. The CSA continues in effect unless and until
Metromedia Company or the Company provide written notice of
termination to the other party, whereupon the CSA will terminate
immediately.

Trademark License Agreement   

The Company is party to a license agreement with Metromedia
Company, dated November 1, 1995 (the  License
Agreement ), as amended, pursuant to which Metromedia
Company has granted the Company a non-exclusive,
non-transferable, non-assignable right and license, without the
right to grant sublicenses, to use the trade name, trademark and
corporate name  Metromedia  in the United States and,
with respect to Metromedia International Telecommunications,
Inc., worldwide, royalty-free for a term of 10 years. In
May 2004, the License Agreement was amended and Metromedia
Company granted the Company the right to use the Metromedia
Company logo on the same terms as the trademark. In March 2006,
the Company and Metromedia Company entered into an extension to
the License Agreement, with an effective date of November 2005,
whereby all terms and conditions remained in place with the
exception that the term of the License Agreement was extended to
December 31, 2006.

The license agreement may be terminated by Metromedia Company
upon three months prior written notice to the Company, or upon
the occurrence of certain specified events, upon one
month s prior written notice by Metromedia Company to the
Company. In addition, Metromedia Company has reserved the right
to terminate the license agreement in its entirety immediately
upon written notice to the Company if, in Metromedia
Company s sole judgment, the Company s continued use
of  Metromedia  as a trade name would jeopardize or be
detrimental to the goodwill and reputation of Metromedia Company.

Pursuant to the License Agreement, the Company has agreed to
indemnify and hold Metromedia Company harmless against any and
all losses, claims, suits, actions, proceedings, investigations,
judgments, deficiencies, damages, settlements, liabilities and
reasonable legal (and other expenses related thereto) arising in
connection with the license agreement.

The Company believes that the terms of each of the transactions
described above were no less favorable to the Company than could
have been obtained from non-affiliated parties.

Indemnification Agreements 

In accordance with Section 145 of the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware, pursuant to the Company s
Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Company has agreed to
indemnify its officers and directors against, among other
things, any and all judgments, fines, penalties, amounts paid in
settlements and expenses paid or incurred by virtue of the fact
that such officer or director was acting in such capacity to the
extent not prohibited by law.

174

Table of Contents   

The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with
certain directors. These indemnification agreements provide for
indemnification of such directors to the fullest extent
authorized or permitted by law. They also provide for:

advancement by the Company of expenses incurred by the director
    in defending certain litigation; 

the appointment in certain circumstances of an independent legal
    counsel to determine whether the director is entitled to
    indemnification; and 

the continued maintenance by the Company of directors  and
    officers  liability insurance which currently consists of
    $10 million of primary coverage and secondary coverage of
    $5 million. 

The indemnification agreements were approved by the
Company s stockholders at the Company s 1993 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 14.  
     
      Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures 

The Audit Committee of the Company s Board of Directors is
responsible for the appointment, compensation and oversight of
the work of the Company s independent public accountant.
During 2003, the Company adopted procedures governing
pre-approval of services provided by the Company s
independent auditor. The approval may be given as part of the
Audit Committee s approval of the scope of the engagement
of the Company s independent auditor or on an individual
basis. Pre-approval of all audit, audit-related, tax and
non-audit services are delegated to one or more members of the
Audit Committee. The Company s independent auditor may not
be retained to perform the non-auditing services specified in
Section 10A(g) of the Exchange Act. The audit committee
pre-approved all of the services described below that were
provided after the pre-approval requirements under the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act became effective on May 6, 2003. The
Audit Committee considered whether the non-audit services
rendered by the Company s independent auditors were
compatible with maintaining the independence of the respective
firms as auditors of the Company s financial statements and
determined that they were appropriate.

Fees Paid to the Independent Auditor 

In the second quarter of 2004, representatives of KPMG LLP, the
U.S. member firm of KPMG International, advised the Company
that they could no longer be engaged as the Company s
auditors, due to the Company no longer having any significant
business operations within the United States. As a result, the
Company engaged KPMG Limited, the Russian member firm of KPMG
International, to be its independent auditor on July 9,
2004.

Prior to the engagement of KPMG Limited as its independent
auditor in 2004, KPMG Limited had performed audit related
services at certain of the Company s business ventures on
behalf of KPMG LLP. Subsequent to the engagement of KPMG Limited
as the Company s independent auditor, KPMG LLP has provided
audit related services at the Company s corporate office on
behalf of KPMG Limited.

175

Table of Contents   

The following table sets-forth the fees billed for professional
accounting services provided by both KPMG Limited and KPMG LLP
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and
December 31, 2003, respectively.

(1)  
     
    The reported 2003 audit fee amount of $3.2 million is
    approximately $0.1 million greater than the amount that the
    Company reported within its Annual Report on
    Form  10-K  for the
    fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. The $0.1 million
    difference resulted from the Company being billed an additional
    amount from KPMG LLP for audit fees, as associated with the 2003
    fiscal year; 

(2)  
     
    Of the $3.9 million in 2004 audit fees: $1.2 million
    of the audit fees represents billings in excess of the agreed
    upon audit engagement letter due to audit overages and
    $0.7 million of the audit fees were incurred as a part of
    the previously indicated restatement activities  (see
    Item 1.  Business   Restatement of Prior
    Financial Information   2005 Restatement Work
    Effort ) ; and 

(3)  
     
    Of the $2.8 million in 2003 audit fees: $0.6 million
    of the audit fees represents billings in excess of the agreed
    upon audit engagement letter due to audit overages and
    $0.2 million of the audit fees were incurred as a part of
    the previously indicated restatement activities  (see
    Item 1.  Business   Restatement of Prior
    Financial Information   2003 Restatement Work
    Effort ) . 

For purposes of the preceding table, the professional fees are
classified as follows:

Audit Fees    These are fees for professional
    services performed for the audit of the Company s
    consolidated annual financial statements and review of financial
    statements included in the
    Company s  10-Q 
    filings; 

Audit Related Fees    These are fees for
    assurance and related services that traditionally are performed
    by the Company s independent accountant. Included in this
    category are fees incurred for audits of the financial
    statements of certain of the Company s business ventures
    performed in connection with acquisitions or dispositions of
    such subsidiaries, or in compliance with such subsidiaries 
    independent legal reporting obligations, including statutory and
    regulatory filings; 

Tax Fees    These are fees for all professional
    services performed by professional staff in the Company s
    independent accountant s tax division except those services
    related to the audit of the Company s financial statements.
    These include fees for tax compliance, tax planning and tax
    advice. Tax compliance involves review of original and amended
    tax returns and preparation of tax returns for the
    Company s expatriates, as required under their respective
    employment contract. Tax planning and tax advice encompass a
    diverse range of subjects, including tax advice related to the
    proposed merger, acquisitions and dispositions, and requests for
    rulings or technical advice from taxing authorities; and 

All Other Fees    These are fees for other
    permissible work performed that do not meet the above category
    descriptions. 

176

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

Item 15.  
     
      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

(a) (1) and (a) (2)

Financial Statements and Schedules   

The financial statements and schedules listed in the
accompanying Index to Financial Statements are filed as part of
this Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

(a) (3)  Exhibits 

The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index are
filed as part of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

177

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

By:  
     
    /s/ MARK S. HAUF 

Mark S. Hauf 

President, Chief Executive Officer and  

Chairman of the Board  

Dated: December 14, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/ MARK S. HAUF 
      
Mark
    S. Hauf 

President, Chief Executive Officer and 
    Chairman of the Board 
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

December 14, 2006 

/s/ HAROLD F. PYLE, III 
      
Harold
    F. Pyle, III 

Executive Vice President Finance, Chief 
    Financial Officer and Treasurer 
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

December 14, 2006 

/s/ B. DEAN ELLEDGE 
      
B.
    Dean Elledge 

Vice President Finance, 
    Chief Accounting Officer 
    (Principal Accounting Officer) 

December 14, 2006 

/s/ JOHN STEELE CHALSTY 
      
John
    Steele Chalsty 

Director 

December 14, 2006 

/s/ DAVID GALE 
      
David
    Gale 

Director 

December 14, 2006 

/s/ ALAN K. GREENE 
      
Alan
    K. Greene 

Director 

December 14, 2006 

/s/ WILLIAM F. HARLEY, III 
      
William
    F. Harley, III 

Director 

December 14, 2006 

/s/ WAYNE HENDERSON 
      
Wayne
    Henderson 

Director 

December 14, 2006 

/s/ CLARK A. JOHNSON 
      
Clark
    A. Johnson 

Director 

December 14, 2006 

178

Table of Contents   

179

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

All other schedules have been omitted, either as inapplicable or
not required under the instructions contained in
Regulation  S-X  or
because the information is included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements or the Notes thereto listed above.

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Metromedia International Group, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of
Metromedia International Group, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
 Company ) as of December 31, 2004 and the
related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders  (deficiency) equity and comprehensive
income (loss) and cash flows for the year then ended. In
connection with our audit of the consolidated financial
statements, we have also audited the financial statement
schedules as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004.
These consolidated financial statements and consolidated
financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements and
consolidated financial statement schedules based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Metromedia International Group, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for the year ended
December 31, 2004, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the
related financial statement schedules when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.

/s/ KPMG LIMITED 

KPMG LIMITED 

Moscow, Russian Federation

December 14, 2006

F-1

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Metromedia International Group, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of
Metromedia International Group, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2003 and the related consolidated statements
of operations, stockholders  (deficiency) equity and
comprehensive income (loss) and cash flows for each of the years
in the two-year period ended December 31, 2003. In
connection with our audits of the consolidated financial
statements, we have also audited the financial statement
schedules as of December 31, 2003 and for each of the years
in the two-year period ended December 31, 2003. These
consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedules are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial
statement schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Metromedia International Group, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for the two-year period
ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedules when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been
prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going
concern. The Company has suffered recurring operating losses and
net operating cash deficiencies, and does not presently have
sufficient funds on hand to meet its current debt obligations.
These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company s
ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated
financial statements do not include any adjustments that might
result from the outcome of this uncertainty.

As discussed in Note 2, the accompanying consolidated
financial statements as of December 31, 2003 and for the
two-year period ended December 31, 2003 have been restated.

As discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial
statements, the Company changed its accounting policy regarding
the accounting for certain business ventures previously reported
on a three-month lag basis as of January 1, 2003.

/s/ KPMG LLP 

KPMG LLP 

New York, New York

May 14, 2004 except as to

Note 2, which is as of December 14, 2006

F-2

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-3

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS 
(DEFICIENCY) EQUITY 

AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1.  
     
     Basis of Presentation and Description of Business, Recent
    Developments and Going Concern  

Basis of Presentation and Description of Business   

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Metromedia International Group, Inc. (the
 Company ) and its consolidated subsidiaries. All
significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been
eliminated, inclusive of intercompany interest with business
ventures accounted for on the equity method of accounting.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the financial
statements for prior periods to conform to current year
presentation.

The Company is a holding company that has economic interests in
business ventures that principally provide telecommunication
services to customers in the country of Georgia. Prior to August
2005, the Company also owned a 71% economic interest in ZAO
PeterStar ( PeterStar ) and its subsidiaries, the
leading competitive local exchange carrier in
St. Petersburg, Russia ( the PeterStar Group ).

At December 31, 2004, the Company had two reporting
segments, as follows:

Magticom Ltd., the leading mobile telephony operator in Tbilisi,
    Georgia, in which the Company presently has an effective 50.1%
    ownership interest ( Magticom ). Prior to mid-February
    2005, the Company had a 34.5% ownership interest in Magticom and
    had followed the equity method of accounting for its ownership
    interest; and 

PeterStar, the leading competitive local exchange carrier in St.
    Petersburg, Russia, in which the Company had a 71% economic
    interest until its disposition in August 2005. 

In addition to the two reporting segments, at December 31,
2004, the Company had ownership interests in:

Telecom Georgia, a long-distance transit operator in Tbilisi,
    Georgia, in which, as of July 2006, the Company presently has a
    25.6% ownership interest. In mid-February 2005, the Company
    increased its ownership interest in Telecom Georgia from 30% to
    81%. The Company continued to follow the equity method of
    accounting for its ownership interests until May 2005 when
    Telecom Georgia s charter was amended, at which point
    Telecom Georgia became a consolidated entity of the Company; and 

Ayety TV, a cable television provider in Tbilisi, Georgia, in
    which the Company has an 85% ownership interest. Currently, the
    Company is involved in a number of commercial and legal disputes
    with the 15% minority shareholder of Ayety, the result of which,
    as allowed under FIN 46R, the Company no longer
    consolidates its variable interest in Ayety for all periods
    subsequent to June 30, 2004 to include within its
    consolidated financial statements. 

Substantially all of the Company s assets are located, and
revenues are generated, outside of the United States
( U.S. ). Specifically, for the year ended
December 31, 2004, the Company s PeterStar business
venture that conducts its business operations in Northwest
Russia generated substantially all of the Company s
consolidated revenues and cost of services. Operating expenses
at PeterStar and corporate overhead expenses are the principal
components that generated the Company s consolidated
operating losses. Results of operations of the Company s
Magticom business venture, which conducts its business
operations in Georgia, represent substantially all of the
Company s equity in income of unconsolidated investees.

As discussed in further detail (see
Note 2,  Restatement of Prior Financial
Information ) in June 2005, the Company reached the
conclusion that it needed to restate its previously issued
financial statements for certain accounting errors. Accordingly,
the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
effects of that restatement effort.

F-7

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

On September 30, 2003, the Board of Directors formally
approved management s plan of disposing its remaining
non-core media businesses. As of December 31, 2004, the
Company had entered into agreements for the disposition of all
of its non-core media businesses that were classified as
discontinued components. These consolidated financial statements
also include the results of the Company s discontinued
business components (see Note 12,  Discontinued
Components ).

In an effort to provide more timely and meaningful financial
information on the Company s business operations, the
Company determined that all business ventures should be reported
on a real-time basis. Accordingly, effective January 1,
2003, the Company changed its accounting policy regarding the
accounting for certain business ventures previously reported on
a three-month lag basis. Prior to the adoption of this
accounting policy, all of the Company s then current
business ventures, with the exception of PeterStar, had
historically reported their financial results on a three-month
lag. Therefore, the Company s financial results for the
year ended December 31, 2002 includes the results for those
business ventures for the twelve months ended September 30,
2002 (see Note 4,  Accounting Changes  
Elimination of the Three-Month Lag Reporting Policy ).

As of December 31, 2004, the PeterStar Group did not meet
the requirements of Paragraph 30 of SFAS No. 144,
  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets   ( SFAS No. 144 ).
Consequently the Company did not treat the PeterStar Group as
held for sale as of December 31, 2004 and instead continued
to present the PeterStar Group s results of operations as
continuing operations in the Company s consolidated
statements of operations for all years presented herein.
However, effective in the first quarter of 2005, the PeterStar
Group met the criteria of SFAS No. 144 for
classification as a discontinued component. As a result,
beginning with the Company s quarterly report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2005, the
PeterStar Group will be so accounted for within the
Company s financial statements as of that date and
prospectively through the date of disposition.

Recent Developments   

PeterStar Sale Transaction  

On August 1, 2005, the Company consummated the sale of its
71% ownership interest in the PeterStar Group pursuant to a
definitive agreement that was executed on February 17, 2005
for cash consideration of $215.0 million (the
 PeterStar Sale ). The February 17, 2005
definitive agreement was among the Company, First National
Holding S.A. ( First National ), Emergent Telecom
Ventures S.A. ( Emergent ) and Pisces Investment
Limited, a company organized under the Companies Law of Cyprus
and a wholly-owned subsidiary of First National and Emergent
( Pisces , and together with First National and
Emergent, the  Buyers ). First National, a holding
company incorporated in Luxembourg, owns a 58.9% stake in OAO
Telecominvest ( Telecominvest ) in Russia. At the time
of the consummation of the PeterStar Sale, Telecominvest was the
29% minority shareholder in PeterStar.

The Company anticipates that it will recognize a gain of
approximately $113.7 million, before transactional costs,
on the disposal of the PeterStar Group in the third quarter of
2005, since its U.S. GAAP carrying balance in PeterStar at the
date of sale was $101.3 million. The Company presently
anticipates that it will be able to utilize its tax attributes
(capital loss and net operating loss carryforwards) to offset
any federal or state tax gain that would be recognized on the
sale.

Redemption of Senior Notes  

On August 8, 2005, using a portion of the cash proceeds
from the PeterStar Sale, the Company completed the redemption of
its outstanding $152.0 million
10  1  / 2 %
Senior Notes due 2007 (the  Senior

F-8

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Notes ). The aggregate redemption price of the Senior
Notes, including accrued and unpaid interest, was
$157.7 million.

Early Termination of Defined Benefit Pension Plan 

On March 14, 2006, the Company funded approximately
$5.4 million to its defined benefit pension plan (the
 Pension Plan ) to ensure that the value of the
Pension Plan assets was sufficient to cover all benefit
liabilities since the Pension Plan made a final distribution to
the Pension Plan participants on March 22, 2006. The final
distribution to the Pension Plan participants resulted from the
Company s initiative to terminate the Pension Plan, in
accordance with the provisions of Section 4041 of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
( ERISA ).

Settlement of the Fuqua Industries, Inc. Shareholder
Litigation 

On April 6, 2006, the Company received approximately
$4.6 million from the settlement of the Fuqua Industries,
Inc. Shareholder Litigation (the  Settlement ). The
aggregate amount of the Settlement was $7.0 million;
however, approximately $2.4 million was paid to
plaintiff s legal counsel to cover legal fees and expenses.

Reorganization of Ownership Interest in Business
    Ventures   

In February 2005, through a series of transactions with
Dr. George Jokhtaberidze, co-founder and then majority
owner of Magticom, the Company reorganized its ownership
interest in Magticom. The net result of these transactions, was
as follows:

The Company s economic ownership in Magticom increased to
    42.8% from 34.5%. Through the Company s majority economic
    ownership interest (50.1%) in International Telcell Cellular
    LLC, ( International TC LLC ), an intermediary holding
    company that owned, directly and indirectly as of
    February 28, 2005, 85.5% of Magticom, the Company obtained
    the largest economic ownership interest in Magticom and gained
    the ability to exert operational oversight over Magticom.
    However, the Company has determined that its ownership interest
    in Magticom (through its holding company structure), as a result
    of this ownership restructuring, should still be accounted for
    following the equity method of accounting. Dr. George
    Jokhtaberidze owned, prior to June 1, 2006, the remaining
    49.9% interest in International TC LLC; 

A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company issued a promissory
    note in the amount of $23.1 million to
    Dr. Jokhtaberidze as payment for the additional 8.3%
    Magticom interest the Company obtained in February 2005 (the
     Dr. Jokhtaberidze Promissory Note  and 

International TC LLC subsequently entered into an agreement with
    the Georgian government that resulted in the cancellation, in
    exchange for a cash payment of $15.0 million, of the
    Georgian government s rights to obtain a 20% Magticom
    purchase option. The $15.0 million payment was funded by
    pro-rata cash contributions to International TC LLC from the
    Company and Dr. Jokhtaberidze. The Georgian
    government s right to obtain a 20% purchase option in
    Magticom resulted from a series of negotiations and agreements
    that were executed in April 2004 associated with the
    Company s, but most importantly Dr. George
    Jokhtaberidze s ownership interest in Magticom. These
    negotiations and agreements were a precursor to the, previously
    discussed, February 2005 agreements associated with the
    reorganization of ownership interest in Magticom. 

F-9

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Specifically, in February 2004, Dr. George Jokhtaberidze,
    who is also the son-in-law of former Georgian president Eduard
    Shevardnadze, was arrested in Georgia pending investigation of
    various tax-related matters related to his ownership interest in
    Magticom. On April 26, 2004, the prosecution of
    Dr. Jokhtaberidze by the Georgian government was dropped
    without any finding of wrongdoing and Dr. Jokhtaberidze was
    released from investigative detention. On the same day, the
    Georgian government s investigation into past business and
    tax payment practices of Magticom were completed with no adverse
    findings. 

On September 15, 2005, the Company and
Dr. Jokhtaberidze, through the holding company
International TC LLC, acquired the 14.5% economic interest in
Magticom, formerly owned by Western Wireless International
( Western Wireless ), for a cash price of
$43.0 million in proportion to their respective ownership
interests in International TC LLC. As a result, the
Company s economic interest in Magticom increased to 50.1%
since International TC LLC currently, directly and indirectly,
owns 100% of Magticom. Prior to the purchase, Magticom issued a
dividend of $17.0 million, net of 10% Georgian dividend
withholding taxes, of which $7.3 million was distributed to
the Company. The Company used the net proceeds from this
dividend distribution to partially fund the purchase and funded
its remaining portion of the purchase using corporate cash of
approximately $14.3 million.

Concurrent with this transaction, the Company paid in full all
principal and accrued and unpaid interest due to
Dr. Jokhtaberidze under the Dr. Jokhtaberidze
Promissory Note described above.

Telecom Georgia Ownership Activity  

In February 2005, the Company negotiated and purchased an
additional 51% ownership interest in Telecom Georgia from the
Georgian government for a cash purchase price of
$5.0 million. The additional 51% acquired interest in
Telecom Georgia resulted in the Company increasing its ownership
to 81%, and gaining the ability to exert operational oversight
over Telecom Georgia. Furthermore, on May 23, 2005, the
charter of Telecom Georgia that was in effect for the past
several years was amended, as a result, certain substantive
participatory rights that were afforded to the minority
shareholder were eliminated, which allowed the Company to follow
the consolidation method of accounting.

In July 2006, the Company consummated a series of transactions
associated with its ownership interest in Telecom Georgia. In
summary, the Company acquired a controlling interest in Telenet,
a Georgian company providing internet access, data
communication, voice telephony and international access
services, from a third party in exchange for cash and a minority
interest shareholding in both Telenet and Telecom Georgia. In
addition, Dr. Jokhtaberidze, the Company s principal
partner in Magticom, acquired from the Company a minority
interest shareholding in the Company s ownership in these
two business ventures. As a result, the Company s interests
in Telenet and Telecom Georgia are held through U.S. based
holding companies in which the Company has the controlling
interest, thereby enabling the Company to exercise operational
oversight over and consolidate both Telenet and Telecom Georgia.
Furthermore, the Company exited the transactions with the
largest economic interest of any of the shareholders in both
Telecom Georgia and Telenet, of approximately 21% and 26%,
respectively and completed these transactions with a net
corporate cash outlay of approximately $450,000.

F-10

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Telenet provides high-speed data communication and internet
access services on both a wired and wireless basis, primarily to
commercial and institutional customers in Georgia. It also
operates international voice and data transit links between
Georgia and Russia. Immediately prior to the Company s
acquisition of Telenet, Telenet acquired from IberiaTel,
Georgia s only license to provide CDMA 450 MHz wireless
voice and data services and a CDMA 450 network deployed in
Georgia s capital city, Tbilisi. The target markets of
Telecom Georgia and Telenet are office and residential consumers
of fixed location telephony and data communication service; and
both companies have well-established Georgian brands in these
markets.

Telecom Georgia Ownership Activity   October
    2006  

On October 27, 2006, the Company, through International
Telcell LLC, an intermediary holding company in which the
Company has a 25.6% economic ownership interest, acquired the
19% ownership interest held by Bulcom in Telecom Georgia for
$0.7 million, thereby increasing the Company s
economic interest in Telecom Georgia to 25.6%. Furthermore, as a
part of that transaction, the Company paid a broker fee of
$0.1 million to a third party for their facilitation of the
transaction.

Georgian Business Development Initiatives   

Magticom Georgian License Activity  

On August 10, 2005, the Company announced that in July 2005
Magticom had obligated itself, subject to a tender for a license
that it had won on May 25, 2005, to use 18% of the 800 MHz
radio frequency spectrum available in Georgia for offering Code
Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, data, voice and video
services. Magticom paid approximately 26.1 million Georgian
Lari ( GEL ) (approximately $14.3 million) over
the twelve months following the tender as consideration for
obtaining the license rights to use this 800 MHz spectrum in
Georgia for a period of ten years. The Company further announced
that in August 2005 Magticom won a tender for a license to use
25% of the 2.1 GHz radio frequency spectrum available in Georgia
for offering 3rd Generation ( 3G ) GSM mobile voice,
data and video services. Magticom paid approximately
20.4 million GEL (approximately $11.3 million) over
the twelve months following the tender as consideration for
obtaining license rights to use 25% of the total 2.1 GHz
spectrum assigned for 3G services in Georgia for a period of
10 years. In addition, in November 2005, Magticom acquired
at auction a license to use 20% of the 1,800 MHz (or
equivalent to 15% of the combined 900 MHz and
1,800 MHz) radio frequency spectrum available in Georgia
for offering GSM data and voice services. Magticom has paid
approximately 1.0 million GEL (approximately
$0.6 million) for the license, which is usable for a period
of ten years. Furthermore, on April 25, 2006, license
rights for additional 3G radio frequency spectrum, representing
less than 25% of the available 3G radio frequency spectrum, were
offered at auction; in which the winning bid was approximately
20 million GEL (approximately $11 million). Magticom
did not directly participate in the tender; however, Magticom
has entered into agreements with the winner of the April 2006
auction, pursuant to which Magticom will acquire from that party
license rights to all of their license rights. Magticom
anticipates paying the full winning bid price, plus a nominal
mark-up, for these license rights. Following the purchase,
Magticom s 3G spectrum holdings is less than 50% of total
3G spectrum, as required by Georgian law. On July 7, 2006,
the Georgian regulator renewed Magticom s 900 MHz s
radio frequency spectrum licenses for another ten year period,
effective immediately. Magticom paid a license renewal fee of
GEL 24.9 million (approximately $13.7 million). These
new licenses position Magticom to provide mobile communication
services in Georgia that are as advanced as any now offered
anywhere in the world. Each license is effective for a ten-year
period and is effective country-wide. Magticom already holds
long-standing, renewable licenses to offer conventional GSM
telephony services in the 900 and 1800 MHz spectrum.

F-11

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Proposed Sale of Substantially all of Company
    Assets   

On October 2, 2006, the Company announced the execution of
a letter of intent (the  Offer Agreement ) in respect
of an offer it received to acquire all of the Company s
business interests in Georgia for a cash price of
$480 million from a group of investors ( Offering
Group ).

The Company entered into the Offer Agreement with the Offering
Group on September 28, 2006, providing for exclusivity in
negotiations during a sixty-day due diligence period and setting
forth intended terms of a binding share purchase agreement. The
Offer Agreement was executed on September 28, 2006 but did
not become effective until October 1, 2006, the date at
which the Company had entered into the separate Lock-Up and
Voting Agreements, as defined below, with representatives of
holders of approximately 80% of its 4.1 million outstanding
shares of Preferred Stock.

On December 5, 2006, the Company received a letter from
Salford Capital Partners ( Salford ), the then sole
remaining member of the Offering Group and a party to the Offer
Agreement, in which Salford (a) informed the Company that
it (x) has decided not to proceed with the proposed
transaction outlined in the Offer Agreement, (y) is
terminating the exclusivity restrictions of the Offer Agreement
for Cause (as defined in the Offer Agreement) as a result of an
alleged breach of the  access to information  covenant
contained therein, and (b) requested that the Company
reimburse Salford for the transaction expenses incurred by it to
date in connection with the proposed transaction in the amount
of US $1,010,000. The Company is in the process of evaluating
Salford s claim for reimbursement of its expenses in order
to assess whether the request is with or without merit.

In connection with the execution of the Offer Agreement,
beginning on September 29, 2006 and finalizing on
October 1, 2006, the Company entered into separate lock-up,
support and voting agreements (the  Lock-Up and Voting
Agreements ) with representatives (the  Preferred
Representatives ) of holders of approximately 80 % of its
4.1 million outstanding shares of preferred stock, par
value $1.00 per share (the  Preferred Stock ). In
connection with the Offer Agreement, the Preferred
Representatives have agreed to support a chapter 11 plan
(in a case to be filed in the United States Court for the
District of Delaware (the  Wind-up )), pursuant to
which holders of the Company s Preferred Stock would
receive $68 per share from Net Distributable Cash (hereinafter
defined) of $420 million or less and one-half of any Net
Distributable Cash in excess of $420 million, allocated
equally among the shares of Preferred Stock. The balance of Net
Distributable Cash would be allocated equally among the
outstanding common shares. Since the Preferred Representatives
represent holders of more than two-thirds of the presently
outstanding Preferred Stock, if such a plan is approved by the
Court, the plan would be binding on all preferred stockholders.
 Net Distributable Cash  will consist of the cash
proceeds of the intended sale of the Company s business
interests in Georgia plus the Company s portion of
dividends received from its subsidiary Magticom Ltd. prior to
the sale and all headquarters cash on hand in the Company at
sale closing less: (i) any taxes arising out of the sale of
assets; (ii) payments of all allowed claims in the Wind-Up;
(iii) necessary reserves for the final liquidation of the
Company and its subsidiaries; (iv) professional fees
connected with the proposed sale transaction and pursuit of the
Wind-Up; and (v) Board-approved bonuses or similar payments
to Company directors, management and employees which in an
aggregate amount are estimated to equal approximately 5% of the
proposed sale transaction proceeds. By end of first half 2007,
the combined face value plus accumulated unpaid dividends that
would otherwise be due to the preferred stockholders would be in
aggregate approximately $325 million or $78.50 per share of
Preferred Stock outstanding.

On November 18, 2006, the Company and Preferred
Representatives of holders of more than two-thirds of the
Company s outstanding shares of Preferred Stock agreed to
an amendment to the Lock-Up and Voting Agreements pursuant to
which holders of the Company s Preferred Stock will receive
$68 per share from Net Distributable Consideration (as
defined in the amendment to the Lock-Up and Voting Agreements)
of $420 million or less, plus one-half of any Net
Distributable Consideration in excess of $420 million and
less

F-12

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

than $465 million, and plus twenty percent of any remaining
Net Distributable Consideration in excess of $465 million,
allocated equally among the shares of Preferred Stock. The
balance of Net Distributable Consideration would be allocated
equally among the outstanding common shares.

As previously noted, the Offer Agreement was terminated on
December 5, 2006 and, as a result, there is presently no
transaction pending that would trigger the arrangements
contemplated under the Lock-Up and Voting Agreements.

Furthermore, as discussed in further detail (see Note 14,
 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities  
Contingencies   Esopus Creek Capital
Litigation   Legal Actions in Connection with the
Proposed Asset Sale ), certain common stockholders of the
Company had taken legal action against the Company, its
directors and officers from proceeding with the Offer Agreement.

Magticom Dividend Distribution   

On October 18, 2006, Magticom issued a $33.33 million
dividend to its shareholders of which $3.33 million was
paid to the Georgian government, representing the required 10%
withholding tax for dividend distributions to
U.S. shareholders. International TC LLC received the
$30.0 million dividend distribution and then repaid its
loan obligations, principal and interest, to a wholly-owned
subsidiary of MIG and Dr. Jokhtaberidze in the amount of
$14.73 million and $14.67 million, respectively. The
International TC LLC loan obligations, to its then members,
originated in September 2005 when it acquired Western
Wireless  indirect 14.5% economic interest in Magticom.
Furthermore, International TC LLC distributed the remaining
$0.6 million to its members as a dividend, of which a
wholly-owned subsidiary of MIG received $0.3 million.

In the first quarter of 2003, the Company embarked on an overall
restructuring of its business interests and corporate operations
(the  Restructuring ). Prior to that time, the Company
owned interests in a diverse array of telephony, cable
television and radio broadcasting businesses operating in
Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia. Pursuant to the
Restructuring, the Company focused its attentions on further
development of Magticom and PeterStar; and undertook the gradual
disposal of its interests in all other business ventures
( Non-Core Business Ventures ). The Company also
substantially downsized its corporate support staff that worked
in the U.S. and Europe. The Restructuring was prompted by and
was intended to resolve the severe liquidity issues that had
confronted the Company since the beginning of 2002. At the
beginning of the Restructuring, the Non-Core Business Ventures
included nine cable television networks, twenty radio
broadcasting stations and various telephony businesses located
principally in Eastern Europe and other member states of the
former Soviet Union. Cash proceeds from the sale of these
Non-Core Business Ventures alleviated short-term corporate
liquidity concerns and thus reduced the Company s
dependence upon cash distributions from Magticom and PeterStar,
thereby enabling these business ventures to retain more cash for
business development purposes. The concurrent substantial
downsizing of corporate support personnel significantly
decreased the Company s use of corporate cash.

The Restructuring of business interests and corporate operations
was substantially completed by the end of the third quarter of
2004 with the sale of most of the Company s remaining radio
business ventures.

Liquidity   

Internal Sources of Liquidity   

The Company is a holding company; accordingly, it does not
generate cash flows from operations. As a result, the Company is
dependent on the earnings of its business ventures and the
distribution or other

F-13

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

payment of these earnings to it to meet its long term corporate
cash outlay requirements (the  Long Term Corporate Cash
Outlay Requirements ), in addition to making any cash
distributions to its stockholders. The Company s Long Term
Corporate Cash Outlay Requirements consist of cash outlays for
its corporate currently projected overhead expenditure
requirements and ordinary course funding of its Historic
Corporate Liabilities (as defined below).

The Company has legacy liabilities as a result of the
Company s prior U.S. based business operating
activities, principally attributable to the business activities
when the Company operated under the names of  The Actava
Group, Inc.  and  Fuqua Industries, Inc. , which
include, but are not limited to, employee benefit obligations to
former employees (pension obligations and provisions for medical
and life insurance), current funding requirements associated
with the settlement (in April 2006) of the Fuqua Industries,
Inc. Shareholder Litigation, self-insurance reserves
attributable to product liability and workers  compensation
claims and environmental claims (collectively, the
 Historic Corporate Liabilities ).

As of December 31, 2004 and October 31, 2006, the
Company had $32.7 million and $16.8 million,
respectively, of unrestricted corporate cash. The Company s
business ventures are separate legal entities that have no
obligation to pay any amounts that the Company owes to third
parties. With respect to certain of the Company s business
ventures the voting power and veto rights of the Company s
business venture partners may limit the Company s ability
to control certain of the operations, strategies and financial
decisions of the business ventures in which it has an ownership
interest. As a result, although cash balances exist in these
business ventures, due to legal and contractual restrictions,
cash balances of these business ventures cannot be readily
accessed to meet the Company s corporate liquidity needs
without the distribution of dividends, following formal dividend
declarations (which would also require minority shareholder
approval at certain of the respective business ventures) to
effect transfers to the Company.

As of December 31, 2004 and July 31, 2005, PeterStar
held $3.9 million and $9.7 million of cash,
respectively, which was held in banks in the country of Russia.
Pursuant to the definitive agreement that the Company executed
in February 2005 associated with the PeterStar Sale, the Company
agreed that it would not take actions as the majority
shareholder in PeterStar to cause PeterStar to either distribute
a dividend to its shareholders or repay any intercompany loans
to the Company.

In addition, as of December 31, 2004, Magticom had
$28.4 million of cash, which was held in banks in Georgia.
As of October 31, 2006, Magticom had $21.3 million of
cash, of which $6.0 million was held in a U.S. bank
and the remainder held in Georgian banks. As previously
disclosed, the Company obtained the largest effective ownership
interest in Magticom and gained the ability to exert operational
oversight over Magticom in February 2005, including decisions as
related to the distribution of shareholder dividends.

External Sources of Liquidity   

The Company has a complicated equity capital structure. For
example, the Company s outstanding
7  1  / 4 %
Cumulative Preferred Stock (the  Preferred Stock ) is
trading at a substantial discount to its per share liquidation
value. This condition limits the Company s ability to
access the capital markets or is a significant deterrent for the
Company using its common stock as currency for business
development purposes.

During the past several years, the Company has relied upon cash
receipts from the sale of certain of its noncore business
ventures and, to a lesser extent, the repatriation of cash from
business ventures; as a result of dividend distributions or the
repayment of outstanding loans in order to meet its outstanding
legal liabilities and obligations. Furthermore, during 2005 the
Company relied upon a loan from its business partner in the
Magticom business venture to enable the Company to meet its
business development initiatives. Since the Company has
monetized its interest in all but three business ventures, the
Company must rely on dividends from its business ventures, and
cash on hand or outside financing as the principal source of
funding for further

F-14

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

business development. A material portion of projected dividends
will be required to meet future corporate cash outlay
requirements. Remaining funds may be insufficient to
substantially expand present businesses or acquire additional
businesses. This could result in eventual stagnation or erosion
in the value of the Company s underlying businesses.

2.     Restatement of Prior
Financial Information 

The Company has restated its previously issued financial
statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2003
and 2002 and stockholders  equity as of January 1,
2002 to reflect correction of past accounting errors. Financial
information related to such periods within the accompanying
footnotes also has been restated to reflect correction of the
past accounting errors. In addition, the Company has included
restated selected financial information for the quarterly
periods corresponding to the quarters ended September 30,
2004 and 2003, June 30, 2004 and 2003, March 31, 2004
and 2003 and December 31, 2003.

The restatement of prior period financial statements was
initially the result of the Company s determination that it
had historically misapplied its consolidation policy to Telcell
Wireless, LLC ( Telcell ), an intermediate holding
company that was formed in 1996 for the purpose of owning 49% of
Magticom, which the Company had a 70.41% interest in and Western
Wireless had the remaining 29.59% ownership interest, until
September 2005. The Company reached this conclusion during
its work effort associated with analyzing the accounting and
disclosure consequences of the previously discussed February
2005 Magticom ownership restructuring. In summary, the Company
prepared an evaluation of various rights granted to minority
shareholders at each of the holding companies through which the
Company held its interest in Magticom to determine the
appropriate prospective accounting treatment of its ownership
interest in Magticom. Such analysis included rights granted to
Dr. George Jokhtaberidze, who owned, prior to June 1,
2006, 49.9% of the outstanding shares of International TC LLC
and rights granted to Western Wireless through their ownership
in Telcell.

The Company concluded that its economic interests in Telcell
should be accounted for following the  equity method of
accounting  for all periods presented based on its
conclusion that the following rights granted to Western Wireless
were substantive participating rights under the Consensus
Guidance provided by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
( FASB ) Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF )
as outlined in EITF Issue
No.  96-16, 
  Investor s Accounting for an Investee When the
Investor Has a Majority of the Voting Interest but the Minority
Shareholder or Shareholders Have Certain Approval or Veto
Rights   ( EITF
No.  96-16 ). 

The right to approve Magticom s purchase, lease or other
    acquisitions of assets or properties in excess of
    $0.5 million, a dollar threshold amount deemed to represent
    an ordinary course business transaction of Magticom; and 

The right to approve the budget of Magticom, which was
    Telcell s sole asset. 

In the Company s June 3, 2005 press release that
announced its determination that it would need to restate its
past financial results for the accounting error related to its
historic accounting of its economic interest in Telcell, the
Company also announced that it had determined that it had
improperly accounted for the depreciation of fixed assets at
certain business ventures that were treated as discontinued
business components under the guidance of SFAS No. 144. As
the Company indicated in its press release, the Company
continued to recognize depreciation and amortization expense
associated with the long-lived assets

F-15

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

of these business ventures through the first quarter of 2004.
The net effect of this error in accounting was as follows:

An understatement of  Income from discontinued components,
    net  by $1.0 million within the Company s fourth
    quarter 2003 consolidated statement of operations; 

An understatement of  Income from discontinued components,
    net  by $0.2 million within the Company s first
    quarter 2004 consolidated statement of operations; and 

An overstatement of  Income from discontinued components,
    net  by $1.2 million within the Company s third
    quarter 2004 consolidated statement of operations. 

The Company has also concluded that the following legal entities
were incorrectly accounted for following the  consolidation
method of accounting  where the  equity method of
accounting  should have been applied for one or more
accounting periods: AS Trio LSL, Sun TV, Roscomm Limited, JV
Technopark and Teleport TP. The following is a summary of key
facts that support the Company s current accounting
position with regard to the aforementioned legal entities:

1. The Company analyzed rights granted to each minority
    shareholder under the charter and/or other governing documents
    for AS Trio LSL using the consensus guidance provided by EITF
    No.  96-16.  Upon
    completion of such analysis of EITF No. 96-16, the Company
    concluded that its historic accounting treatment for its
    interest in AS Trio LSL was incorrect for the period September
    2001 through June 2002, since certain rights were granted to the
    minority shareholder that were determined to be substantive
    participatory rights. Such rights were granted under the
    original charter; however, the Company was unable to cause
    AS Trio LSL to amend its original charter after the
    Company increased its ownership interest in
    AS Trio LSL to 50.24% in September 2001 until June
    2002, concurrent with an additional increase in the
    Company s ownership interest in AS Trio LSL to an
    aggregate holding of 67.02%. Such amendment allowed the
    prospective consolidation of AS Trio LSL from June
    2002 through the date of its disposal in September 2004, since
    the minority shareholder rights were amended to be only
     protective rights  

2. The Company analyzed rights granted to each minority
    shareholder under the charter and/or other governing documents
    for Sun TV using the consensus guidance provided by EITF
    No.  96-16.  Upon
    completion of such analysis of EITF No. 96-16, the Company
    concluded that its historic accounting treatment for its
    interest in Sun TV was incorrect for the period January 2001
    through May 2003, since certain rights were granted to the
    minority shareholder that were determined to be substantive
    participatory rights. Such rights were granted under the
    original charter; however, the Company was unable to cause
    Sun TV to amend its original charter after the Company
    increased its ownership interest in Sun TV to 90.93% in
    June 2000 until May 2003, concurrent with a reorganization of
    the shareholdings in Sun TV, whereby the Company s
    ownership interest decreased to 65%. Such amendment allowed the
    prospective consolidation of Sun TV from May 2003 through the
    date of its disposal in November 2003, since the minority
    shareholder rights were amended to be only  protective
    rights  

3. Roscomm Limited was a holding company with its sole
    asset being its 10% interest in Teleport TP. The Company
    analyzed rights granted to the minority shareholders under the
    charter and/or other governing documents for Roscomm Limited
    using the consensus guidance provided by EITF
    No.  96-16.  Upon
    completion of such analysis of EITF
    No.  96-16,  the
    Company concluded that its historic accounting treatment for its
    interest in Roscomm Limited was incorrect for the period
    September 30, 1999 through March 31, 2002. Such
    conclusion was reached as a result of the 

F-16

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Company s inability during the period to control the
    appointment or termination of the sole director of Roscomm
    Limited; 

4. JV Technopark was a holding company with its primary
    asset being its 7.5% interest in Teleport TP. The Company
    analyzed rights granted to the minority shareholders under the
    charter and/or other governing documents for JV Technopark using
    the consensus guidance provided by EITF
    No.  96-16.  Upon
    completion of such analysis of EITF
    No.  96-16,  the
    Company concluded that its historic accounting treatment for its
    interest in JV Technopark was incorrect for the period
    September 30, 1999 through March 31, 2002, since
    certain rights were granted to the minority shareholders that
    were determined to be substantive participatory rights; and 

5. The Company had ownership rights to 49.94% of Teleport
    TP and had previously presumed that it had controlled voting
    rights to 56.0% of the shares of Teleport TP. However, as a
    result of the conclusions reached in items 3 and 4 above,
    the Company only controlled voting rights to 38.5% of the
    outstanding shares of Teleport TP; thus, the Company would not
    have had control as defined by Accounting Research
    Bulletin No. 51,  Consolidated Financial
    Statements.  

Furthermore, the Company analyzed rights granted to each
    minority shareholder under the original charter and/or other
    governing documents for Teleport TP using the consensus guidance
    provided by EITF
    No.  96-16.  Upon
    completion of such analysis of EITF
    No.  96-16,  the
    Company also concluded that it would be unable to consolidate
    the results of Teleport TP for the period from
    September 30, 1999 through March 31, 2002, since
    certain rights were granted to the minority shareholders that
    were determined to be substantive participatory rights.
    Teleport TP became a subsidiary of the Company on
    September 30, 1999, as a result of the acquisition of PLD
    Telekom, Inc. ( PLD ) by the Company. Teleport TP was
    formed in 1992 and its charter was never amended with respect to
    minority shareholder rights. At the time of the acquisition of
    PLD, PLD had followed the consolidation method of accounting for
    its interest in Teleport TP. 

The Company ceased consolidation of Teleport TP as of
    March 31, 2002 as a result of the dispute with the sole
    director of Roscomm Limited. However, in light of the rights
    provided to minority shareholders at Roscomm Limited and rights
    granted to minority shareholders at JV Technopark and the
    Company s understanding of the guidance contained within
    EITF No.  96-16, 
    the Company has concluded that upon the consummation of the
    acquisition of PLD, that it should have followed the equity
    method of accounting. 

As stated previously, the Company identified certain errors in
its consolidated financial statements prior to filing its
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004
and determined that it would restate its previous financial
results to correct such errors. Those accounting errors are
grouped into the following categories:  Consolidation
Adjustments  and  Other Accounting Adjustments, 
which consist of  Accounting errors that had been made in
its past financial statements and have been adjusted to the
accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2002  and
 Accounting errors that had been made in its financial
statements as of and for the two year period ended
December 31, 2003 .

F-17

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The effects of the adjustments for the accounting errors
described above on the Company s Consolidated Statements of
Operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets are summarized in the
following financial results tables (in 000 s), except per
share amounts:

F-18

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

F-19

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

F-20

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Notes to Year Ended financial results tables :  

(1) The following adjustments reflect the effects of
correcting for the improper consolidation of certain legal
entities (including Telcell, which held an equity interest in
Magticom).

(2) The following adjustments reflect the effects of
correcting the accounting errors that had been made in the
Company s past financial statements and have been reflected
as a net adjustment of $178,000 to increase accumulated deficit
as of January 1, 2002:

a.  The Company failed to accrue interest income of
    $33,000 earned on a deposit placed with a professional service
    provider for periods prior to December 31, 2001. The
    Company recognized an increase in its  other assets 
    and a corresponding decrease in  accumulated deficit 
    as of January 1, 2002;  

b.  The Company identified certain selling general and
    administrative items that should not have been recognized and
    accrued as of December 31, 2001. Such amounts resulted in
    the Company recognizing a decrease in  accrued
    expenses  of $200,000 and a corresponding decrease to its
     accumulated deficit  as of January 1, 2002;  

c.  The Company recognized the write off of an
    uncollectible loan in the year ended December 31, 2002.
    Such loan should have been written-off to expense in the year
    ended December 31, 2001. Accordingly, the Company has
    recognized a decrease in  prepaid expenses and other
    assets  of $146,000 and a corresponding increase to its
     accumulated deficit  as of January 1, 2002;  

d.  The Company identified that certain of its business
    ventures accounted for on the equity method of accounting failed
    to recognize certain expenses or recognized excess expenses.
    Such adjustments resulted in the Company recognizing a net
    increase to its  investments in and advances to business
    ventures  of $38,000, a net decrease of $112,000 to its
     business ventures held for sale  and a corresponding
    increase of $74,000 to its  accumulated deficit  as of
    January 1, 2002;  

e.  The Company failed to recognize certain expenses and
    translated certain expenses improperly when translating from the
    functional currency into the U.S. dollar reporting currency
    for certain discontinued business components. Such adjustments
    resulted in a decrease of $13,000 to  assets of
    discontinued components , an increase of $165,000 to
     current liabilities of discontinued components , a
    decrease in  accumulated other comprehensive loss  of
    $13,000 and a corresponding increase of $191,000 to
     accumulated deficit  as of January 1, 2002;
    and  

f.  The Company identified that it had erroneously
    included unrecognized net actuarial losses when recognizing its
    liability for the Company s post retirement medical benefit
    plan. The Company recognized a decrease in  other long-term
    liabilities  of $365,000 and a corresponding decrease in
     accumulated other comprehensive loss  as of
    January 1, 2002.  

F-21

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(3) The following adjustments reflect the effects of
correcting the accounting errors that had been made in the
Company s financial statements as of and for the two year
period ended December 31, 2003:

a. The Company failed to appropriately calculate its
    deferred revenue in accordance with the Company s revenue
    recognition policy for the Ayety business venture. As a result,
    the Company has increased  revenues  by $92,000 for
    the year ended December 31, 2002 and recognized a
    corresponding decrease in  revenues  of $92,000 for
    the year ended December 31, 2003;  

b. The Company did not follow its accounting policy when
    deferring installation costs for services performed as of
    December 31, 2002 for the PeterStar business venture. Such
    ratio was corrected during 2003. Accordingly, the Company has
    increased its  cost of services  and increased its
     deferred revenues  by $108,000 as of and for the year
    ended December 31, 2002. The Company recognized a
    corresponding decrease to  cost of services  for the
    year ended December 31, 2003;  

c. The Company identified certain cost of service items
    that should have been recognized and accrued in different
    accounting periods for the Ayety business venture. Such amounts
    resulted in the Company recognizing a decrease in  cost of
    services  of $17,000 for the year ended December 31,
    2002 and a corresponding increase in  cost of
    services  of $17,000 for the year ended December 31,
    2003;  

d. The Company failed to correctly accrue vacation pay
    for employees at its PeterStar business venture. As a result,
    the Company increased its  cost of services  and
    increased its  accrued expenses  by $6,000 as of and
    for the year ended December 31, 2003;  

e. The Company identified certain selling, general and
    administrative items that should have been recognized and
    accrued in different accounting periods. Such amounts resulted
    in the Company recognizing a decrease in  selling, general
    and administrative  expenses of $221,000 and $132,000 for
    the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003, respectively
    and an increase of $40,000 in  gain on disposition of
    equity investee business ventures  for the year ended
    December 31, 2003. The net effect of these adjustments
    resulted in an increase of $38,000 to  prepaid expenses and
    other assets  and a decrease of $355,000 to  accrued
    expenses  as of December 31, 2003. When combined with
    the effects of similar adjustments made prior to January 1,
    2002 that have a continuing impact, the net adjustment to the
    balance sheet at December 31, 2003 is an increase of
    $38,000 to  prepaid expenses and other assets  and a
    decrease of $555,000 to  accrued expenses   

f. As noted previously in (2)(c.) above, the Company
    recognized the write off of an uncollectible loan in the year
    ended December 31, 2002. Such loan should have been
    written-off to expense in the year ended December 31, 2001.
    Accordingly, the Company has recognized a decrease in
     selling general and administrative  expenses of
    $146,000 for the year ended December 31, 2002;  

g. The Company improperly capitalized certain repair
    costs as fixed asset acquisitions during the year ended
    December 31, 2003 for the PeterStar business venture. As a
    result, the Company recognized an increase in  selling,
    general and administrative  expenses of $209,000 for the
    year ended December 31, 2003 and a corresponding decrease
    in  property, plant and equipment  as of
    December 31, 2003;  

h. The Company recognized depreciation expense at its
    Ayety business venture in excess of the amount based upon the
    estimated economic lives for certain network assets. As a
    result, the Company recognized a reduction of
     depreciation  expense of $1,096,000 for the year
    ended December 31, 2002. For the year ended
    December 31, 2002, the Company recognized an impairment
    charge to reduce the fixed assets of Ayety to their estimated
    fair value. As a result of the adjustment to depreciation
    expense, the Company has recognized a corresponding increase to
    its  asset impairment  expense of $1,096,000 for the
    year ended December 31, 2002;  

i. The Company improperly amortized indefinite lived
    intangible assets at its PeterStar business venture. The
    correction of such amortization resulted in a reduction to
     amortization expense  of $3,000  

F-22

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

and $51,000 for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
    2003, respectively. The Company recognized a corresponding
    increase to intangible assets for each affected period;  

j. The Company determined that during the year ended
    December 31, 2002 it had improperly recognized an
    impairment charge of $441,000 related to goodwill attributable
    to its investment in its PeterStar business venture. The Company
    has corrected such expense, which resulted in a reduction of
     asset impairment  expense of $441,000 for the year
    ended December 31, 2002 and a corresponding increase in
     goodwill  as of December 31, 2002 and all
    subsequent periods;  

k. Certain of the Company s business ventures
    accounted for on the equity method of accounting failed to
    recognize certain expenses and/or revenues in the appropriate
    accounting periods. Such adjustments resulted in the Company
    recognizing a net increase to its  equity in losses of
    unconsolidated investees  of $227,000 for the year ended
    December 31, 2002. In addition, such adjustments resulted
    in the Company recognizing a net decrease to  equity in
    income of unconsolidated investees  of $238,000 for the
    year ended December 31, 2003. As a result of these
    adjustments, upon disposition of the relevant entities, the
    Company recognized an increase in  gains of disposition of
    equity investee business ventures  of $198,000 and $540,000
    for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003,
    respectively. The net effect of these adjustments resulted in an
    increase of $161,000 to  investments in and advances to
    business ventures  and an increase of $112,000 to
     business ventures held for sale (noncurrent)  as of
    December 31, 2003. When combined with the effects of
    similar adjustments made prior to January 1, 2002 that have
    a continuing impact, the net adjustment to the balance sheet at
    December 31, 2003 is an increase of $199,000 to
     investments in and advances to business ventures   

l. As noted previously in (2)(a.) above, the Company
    failed to accrue interest income of $5,000 earned on a deposit
    placed with a professional service provider for the years ended
    December 31, 2002 and 2003. The correction of such error
    resulted in the Company recognizing an additional $5,000
     interest income  in each of the periods and a
    corresponding increase in  other assets  as of
    December 31, 2002 and 2003;  

m. As a result of adjustments recognized at legal
    entities in which there was a minority shareholder, the Company
    recognized a decrease in  minority interest  expense
    of $24,000 and $34,000 for the years ended December 31,
    2002 and 2003, respectively; and a corresponding decrease of
    $58,000 in  minority interest  as of December 31,
    2003;  

n. As a result of net pre-tax adjustments recognized,
    the Company recognized a decrease in  income tax 
    expense of $43,000 and $89,000 for the years ended
    December 31, 2002 and 2003, respectively; and a
    corresponding decrease of $132,000 in  accrued
    expenses  as of December 31, 2003;  

o. The Company failed to recognize certain expenses and
    failed to translate certain expenses properly when translating
    from their functional currency into the U.S. dollar
    reporting currency for certain discontinued business components.
    In addition, as previously noted, the Company failed to cease
    recognition of depreciation expense for certain of these
    businesses upon their classification as a discontinued business
    component. The recognition of such adjustments resulted in an
    increase in the  loss from discontinued components  of
    $633,000 for the year ended December 31, 2002 and an
    increase in  income from discontinued components  of
    $1,960,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003. The net
    effect of these adjustments resulted in an increase of $31,000
    to  current assets of discontinued components , an
    increase of $1,117,000 to  noncurrent assets of
    discontinued components , a decrease of $166,000 to
     current liabilities of discontinued components  and
    an increase of $13,000 to  accumulated other comprehensive
    loss  as of December 31, 2003. When combined with the
    effects of similar adjustments made prior to January 1,
    2002 that have a continuing impact, the net adjustment to the
    balance sheet at December 31, 2003 is an increase of
    $18,000 to  current assets of discontinued components 
    and an increase of $1,117,000 to  noncurrent assets of
    discontinued components   

p. Due to adjustments recognized at business ventures
    previously recognized on a three-month reporting lag, the
    Company recognized an increase of $11,000 in the
     cumulative effect of a change in  

F-23

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

accounting principle  and the  investments in and
    advances to business ventures  for the year ended
    December 31, 2003;  

q. As noted previously in (2)(f.) above, the Company
    identified that it had erroneously included unrecognized net
    actuarial losses when recognizing its liability for the
    Company s post retirement medical benefit plan. The Company
    recognized a decrease in  other long-term liabilities 
    of $367,000 and a corresponding decrease in  accumulated
    other comprehensive loss  as of December 31, 2003.  

r. In addition to the items discussed above, the Company
    has reclassified certain items on the Consolidated Balance
    Sheet, including reclassification of all assets and liabilities
    of discontinued components to current, to be consistent with
    current period presentation and recognized the foreign currency
    translation adjustments of the above items. Such
    reclassifications resulted in a decrease of $492,000 to
     prepaid expenses and other assets , an increase of
    $21,202,000 to  current assets of discontinued
    components , an increase of $536,000 to  business
    ventures held for sale  (current), an increase of $9,000 to
     property, plant and equipment , an increase of
    $240,000 to  investments in and advance to business
    ventures , a $9,000 decrease to  intangible
    assets , an increase of $492,000 to  Other
    assets , a decrease of $21,202,000 to  long-term
    assets of discontinued components , a decrease of $536,000
    to  business ventures held for sale  (long-term), a
    decrease of $977,000 to  current liabilities , an
    increase of $1,353,000 to  current liabilities of
    discontinued components , a decrease of $376,000 to
     long-term liabilities of discontinued components ,
    and a decrease of $240,000 in  accumulated other
    comprehensive loss  as of December 31, 2003. In
    addition, the Company classified items in the Consolidated
    Statement of Operations to be consistent with current
    presentation. Such reclassifications resulted in an increase of
    $7,000 to  cost of services , a decrease of $569,000
    in  selling, general and administrative  expenses, a
    decrease of $99,000 in  other non-operating expense ,
    an increase of $661,000 in  income tax expense  for
    the year ended December 31, 2003; and  

s. The Company has reclassified certain items to be
    consistent with current period presentation. Such
    reclassifications resulted in an increase of $38,000 to
     cost of services , a $357,000 decrease in
     selling, general and administrative expenses , a
    $171,000 increase in  interest expense , a $370,000
    decrease in  other non-operating expenses  and a
    $518,000 increase to  income tax expense  for the year
    ended December 31, 2002.  

F-24

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The effects of the adjustments for the accounting errors
described above on the Company s Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows are summarized in the following tables (in
000 s):

F-25

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

F-26

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Notes to annual cash flows tables:   

1. The adjustments included in the consolidation and
reclassification adjustments reflect the effects of correcting
for the erroneous consolidation of certain legal entities
(principally Telcell). The Company has separately disclosed the
changes in prepaid expenses and other assets, which were
previously netted against other long-term assets and
liabilities. In addition, the Company has in all periods
restated the cash flows to include  dividends and interest
received from unconsolidated investees  as an operating
activity, which in prior periods were included with  loan
principal repayment received from unconsolidated investees 
as a combined amount of  distribution from business
ventures  within the investing activities. Lastly, the
Company has in all periods presented separately disclosed the
operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flow
attributable to its discontinued components, which in prior
periods were reported on a combined basis as a single amount.

2. The adjustments to the previously discussed year end
financial results also resulted in reclassifications of cash
used within operating activities for the respective years,
except for the improper capitalization of certain repair costs
during the year ended December 31, 2003, which resulted in
an increase in cash used in operating activities of $209,000 and
an increase in cash provided by investing activities.

3. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Cash and Cash Equivalents   

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid instruments with
maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase.

Inventories   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market based on
the weighted-average method to determine cost and are included
in prepaid expenses and other assets.

Business Venture Investments   Consolidation and
    Equity Method of Accounting   

In determining whether the Company should follow the
consolidation method of accounting for a particular business
venture, the Company evaluates the facts and circumstances of
its ownership, the control parameters of its minority partners
and the financial aspects of the business venture itself within
the accounting guidelines set forth in EITF No. 96-16 and
FIN No. 46R. With respect to the application of EITF
No. 96-16, wholly owned subsidiaries and majority owned
business ventures where the Company has operating and financial
control and the minority partner is considered to have only
 protective legal rights  are consolidated. With
respect to the application of FIN No. 46R, the Company
evaluates the particular business venture to determine if it is
a variable interest entity, and whether the Company is the
primary beneficiary (as defined in FIN No. 46R). If
the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary, the Company
follows the consolidation method of accounting for such business
venture.

Those business ventures where the Company exercises significant
influence but cannot consolidate pursuant to the guidelines of
either EITF No. 96-16 or FIN No. 46R, are
accounted for by the equity method. The Company reflects its net
investments in these business ventures under the caption
 Investments in and advances to business ventures. 
Generally, under the equity method of accounting, original
investments are recorded at cost and are adjusted for the
Company s share of undistributed earnings or losses of the
business venture as well as distributions received. Equity in
the losses of the business ventures is recognized according to
the percentage ownership in each business venture until the
Company s business venture partner s contributed
capital has been fully depleted. Subsequently, the Company
recognizes the full amount of losses generated by the business
venture if it is the principal funding source for the business
venture. Advances and accrued interest to the business ventures
under the line of credit agreements between the Company, or one
of

F-27

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

its subsidiaries, and the business ventures are reflected based
on amounts recoverable under the credit agreement. A loss in
value of an investment, which is deemed to be other than a
temporary decline, is recognized as a charge to operations and
included in equity in income (losses) of unconsolidated
investees in the statement of operations.

Long-Lived Assets and Amortizable Intangible Assets   

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost and are
depreciated over their expected useful lives, which range from 3
to 10 years. Generally, depreciation is provided on the
straight-line method for financial reporting purposes. Leased
property that meets the criteria for capitalization is
capitalized and the present value of the related lease payments
is recorded as a liability. Amortization of capitalized leased
assets is computed on a straight-line method over the shorter of
the estimated useful life or the initial lease term. Leasehold
improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over
the life of the improvements, or the remaining life of the
lease, whichever is shorter. Construction costs, labor, and
overhead incurred in the development of the Company s
network are capitalized. Assets under construction are not
depreciated until placed into service. The cost of maintenance
and repairs of property, plant, and equipment is charged to
operating expense in the period incurred.

Intangible assets with finite useful lives, such as broadcast
licenses, frequency rights and customer relationships are stated
at historical cost, net of accumulated amortization. Such
intangible assets are amortized over the life of the license or
right, typically up to ten years or an estimated customer
relationship of 5 years.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets   

Long-lived assets and amortizable identifiable intangibles are
reviewed by the Company for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an
asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be
held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount
to undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated
by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the
impairment recognized is measured by the amount by which the
carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the
assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of
the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.

Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangible Assets   

As the Company has engaged in business combinations accounted
for using the purchase method, goodwill is recognized for the
excess of the purchase price over the value of the identifiable
net assets acquired.

In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141,
  Business Combinations 
 ( SFAS No. 141 ) and
SFAS No. 142,   Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets   ( SFAS No. 142 ). These
standards changed the accounting for business combinations by,
among other things, prohibiting the prospective use of
 pooling-of -interests
accounting and requiring companies to stop amortizing goodwill
and certain intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.
Instead, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have
indefinite useful lives are subject to an annual review for
impairment. The new standards were effective for the Company
January 1, 2002 and for purchase business combinations
consummated after June 30, 2001. SFAS No. 142
requires that goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have
indefinite useful lives be reviewed for impairment upon adoption
of SFAS No. 142 and annually thereafter. Accordingly,
the Company recorded a transitional impairment charge of
$14.7 million as of January 1, 2002, of which
$13.6 million has been included in the loss from
discontinued components with the remaining $1.1 million
reflected as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle for the year ended December 31, 2002.

F-28

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Revenue Recognition   

With respect to the Company s telephony business ventures,
the Company records as revenue the amount of telecommunications
and Data and Internet services that are rendered to customers,
as measured by minutes of traffic processed on behalf of a
customer, the time spent by a customer using Data and Internet
services or a contracted monthly flat fee rate with the
customer. In addition, the Company records an estimated revenue
reduction for adjustments to customer accounts at the time
revenue is recognized based on the Company s historical
experience attributable to the resolution of customer disputes.
Revenue from service contracts is accounted for when the
services are provided. Billings received in advance of service
being performed are deferred and recognized as revenue as the
service is performed. The Company defers up-front connection
fees and recognizes such amounts as revenue over the estimated
contractual relationship with the customer. The Company defers
the revenue on installed equipment until installation and
testing are completed and accepted by the customer and ownership
rights to the installed equipment passes to the customer.
Revenues are stated net of any value-added taxes charged to
customers.

The Company has deferred activation fees and capitalized direct
incremental costs related to these activation fees, not
exceeding the revenue deferred. In instances where the costs
that the Company incurs to provide the respective services
exceed such activation fees billed to customers, the excess
costs are recognized as expense in the period incurred. The
deferral of revenue and capitalization of cost of revenue
related to activation fees are recognized over the estimated
contractual relationship of the customer. The total amount of
deferred activation fees revenue was $3.3 million and
$2.5 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. The total amount of deferred direct incremental
costs related to activation fees was $1.7 million and
$1.3 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

For contracts that involve the bundling of services, revenue is
allocated to the services based on their relative fair value. In
November 2002, the EITF issued its consensus concerning
  Revenue Arrangements with Multiple
Deliverables   ( EITF
No.  00-21 ). 
EITF No.  00-21 
addresses how to determine whether a revenue arrangement
involving multiple deliverables should be divided into separate
units of accounting, and, if separation is appropriate, how the
arrangement consideration should be measured and allocated to
the identified accounting units. The guidance in EITF
No.  00-21  is
effective for revenue arrangements entered into in fiscal
periods beginning after June 15, 2003. The adoption of EITF
No.  00-21  did not
have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
financial position or results of operations. In December 2003,
the Securities and Exchange Commission released Staff Accounting
Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 104,   Revenue
Recognition,   which supersedes SAB No. 101,
  Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements  
( SAB No. 104 ). SAB No. 104
clarifies existing guidance regarding revenues for contracts
that contain multiple deliverables to make it consistent with
EITF No.  00-21. 
The adoption of SAB No. 104 did not have an impact on the
Company s revenue recognition policies, nor the
Company s financial position or results of operations.

With respect to the Company s cable television business
venture, installation fees for cable television services are
recognized as revenues upon subscriber
 hook-up  to the extent
direct selling costs are incurred. Installation fees in excess
of direct selling costs are deferred and recognized over the
expected life of the customer relationship.

Self-Insurance   

The Company establishes reserves for claims and claims expense
on reported and unreported claims of self-insured losses. Such
costs are relative to workers  compensation, health and
product liability costs for certain former subsidiaries claims
prior to their sale. In addition, the Company has agreed to
indemnify certain former subsidiaries for claims payments made
on behalf of the Company or the Company has agreed to act as
guarantor for any claims reimbursements made on its behalf by
third parties. These reserve estimates are based on known facts
and interpretations of circumstances and internal factors
including the Company s

F-29

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

experience with similar cases, historical trends involving claim
payment patterns, loss payments and pending levels of unpaid
claims. In addition, the reserve estimates are influenced by
external factors including law changes, court decisions, changes
to regulatory requirements, economic conditions, and public
attitudes. The Company typically supplements its claims
processes by utilizing third party appraisers, engineers, other
professionals and information sources to assess and settle
claims. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered in
the reserving process.

Because reserves are based on estimations of future losses, the
establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain
process. In addition, there may be a lag in the receipt of
information from former subsidiaries or third parties seeking
reimbursement of remittances made on behalf of the Company. As a
result, the ultimate costs of losses may vary materially from
recorded amounts, which are based on management s best
estimates of future losses. Changes in prior period reserve
estimates, which may be material in any given period or in the
aggregate, are reflected in the results of operations in the
period such changes are determinable.

However, management believes that the reserve for claims and
claims expense, net of recoverable stop-loss insurance, at
December 31, 2004 is appropriately established in the
aggregate and adequate to cover the ultimate net cost of
reported and unreported claims arising from losses which had
occurred by that date.

Minority Interests   

Recognition of minority interests  share of income and
losses of consolidated subsidiaries is limited to the amount of
such minority interests  allocable portion of the common
equity of those consolidated subsidiaries.

Income Taxes   

The Company follows the provisions of SFAS No. 109,
  Accounting for Income Taxes  
( SFAS No. 109 ), which requires the
recognition of deferred income tax liabilities and assets for
the expected future tax consequences of events that have been
included in the financial statements or tax returns. Under this
method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are
determined based on the difference between the financial
statement and the tax basis of assets and liabilities using
enacted rates in effect for the year in which the differences
are expected to reverse. Such assets and liabilities are
determined with respect to each jurisdiction in which the
Company and its business ventures operate. In those
jurisdictions in which the Company has deferred income tax
assets, the Company considers the scheduled reversal of deferred
tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax
planning strategies in making the assessment as to whether the
benefits of such deductible differences is more likely than not
to be realized. Valuation allowances are established when
necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts expected
to be realized. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred
tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period
that includes the enactment date.

Stock Option Plans   

The Company has elected to account for its stock-based
compensation in accordance with the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board ( APB ) No. 25,
  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees   and
present pro forma disclosures of results of operations as if the
fair value method had been adopted to account for its
stock-based employee compensation plans.

The effect of applying SFAS No. 123
  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   on
the net loss attributable to common stockholders, as reported
below is not representative of the effects on reported net loss

F-30

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

in future years due to the vesting period of the stock options
and the fair value of additional stock options in future years.

Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   

As previously discussed in Note 1,  Basis of
Presentation and Description of Business, Recent Developments
and Liquidity   Recent Developments and
Liquidity   Early Termination of Defined Benefit
Pension Plan , in the third quarter of 2004, the Company
initiated a process whereby the Pension Plan would be terminated
pursuant to a standard termination, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4041 of the ERISA. At the time of
initiating the termination, the Company believed that the
process to terminate the plan would take at most twelve months
to complete; however, the final distribution did not take place
until the end of first quarter 2006. Specifically, on
March 14, 2006, the Company funded approximately
$5.4 million to the Pension Plan to ensure that the value
of the Pension Plan assets was sufficient to cover all benefit
liabilities (see Note 10,  Employee Benefit
Plans   Defined Benefit Pension Plan ).

Foreign Currency Translation   

The statutory accounts of the Company s consolidated
foreign subsidiaries and business ventures are maintained in
accordance with local accounting regulations and are stated in
local currencies, generally Russian Rubles and Georgian Lari.
Local statements are translated into accounting principles
generally accepted in the U.S. ( U.S. GAAP )
and U.S. Dollars in accordance with SFAS No. 52,
  Accounting for Foreign Currency Translation.  

Under SFAS No. 52, foreign currency denominated assets
and liabilities are generally translated using the exchange
rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Results of operations
are generally translated using the average exchange rates
prevailing throughout the year. The effects of exchange rate
fluctuations on translating foreign currency denominated assets
and liabilities into U.S. Dollars are accumulated as part
of the foreign currency translation adjustment in
stockholders  equity. Gains and losses from foreign
currency transactions are included in net income (loss) in the
period in which they occur.

Under SFAS No. 52, the financial statements of foreign
entities in highly inflationary economies are remeasured, in all
cases using the U.S. Dollar as the functional currency.
U.S. Dollar transactions are shown at their historical
value. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in local
currencies are translated into U.S. Dollars at the
prevailing period-end exchange rate. All other assets and
liabilities are translated at historical exchange rates. Results
of operations are translated using the monthly average exchange
rates. Transaction differences resulting from the use of these
different rates are included in the accompanying consolidated
statements of operations as foreign currency loss.

F-31

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Until September 30, 2003, PeterStar s functional
currency was the U.S. Dollar, because it reflected the
economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances of
PeterStar. On October 1, 2003, the Company determined that
a change in the currency in which PeterStar determined
customers  bills required it to reevaluate its operations
and, as a result, it concluded that as of that date, the
functional currency should change from the U.S. Dollar to
the Russian Ruble. Consequently, at October 1, 2003, the
historical bases of PeterStar s non-monetary assets were
translated to U.S. Dollars using the exchange rate in
effect as of that date, except for the historical base of
PeterStar s non-monetary assets that were acquired before
January 1, 2003, which were set using the exchange rate in
effect as of January 1, 2003, because as at that date the
Russian Ruble ceased to be highly inflationary. The translation
of the non-monetary assets using the Russian Ruble as functional
currency for the period from January 1, 2003 to
October 1, 2003 resulted in an increase in property, plant
and equipment of $5.6 million, an increase of
$1.5 million in goodwill and net intangibles and an
increase of $8.5 million in deferred tax liabilities, which
was recorded as a cumulative translation adjustment in equity.
The U.S. Dollar has remained both PeterStar s and the
Company s reporting currency.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments   

The Company believes that the carrying amounts of cash and cash
equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued
expenses and long-term debt, excluding the Senior Notes,
redeemed in August 2005, approximate their fair value.

The Company s Senior Notes have a carrying value equal to
their face value of $152.0 million as of December 31,
2004. On April 24, 2003, the Company completed a
transaction with certain holders of its Senior Notes (the
 Adamant Transaction ), by which the Company exchanged
the ownership interests of certain of its business ventures
located in Russia for forgiveness of approximately
$58.6 million of the Senior Notes, related accrued interest
of $3.5 million and $5.0 million in cash. Furthermore,
as previously discussed, on August 8, 2005 the Company
redeemed the remaining Senior Notes and paid the outstanding
interest at par with a portion of the cash proceeds from the
disposition of the Company s interest in PeterStar.

The majority of the remaining Senior Notes were closely held and
not widely traded. Accordingly, a reliable quoted price does not
readily exist. However, the Company estimates that the fair
value of the Senior Notes outstanding at December 31, 2004,
is $156.0 million, which includes accrued and unpaid
interest on the Senior Notes subsequent to the last semi-annual
interest payment on September 30, 2004.

Earnings Per Common Share   

Basic earnings per common share ( EPS ) was computed
by dividing income available to common stockholders by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the
period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could
occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock
were exercised or converted into common stock. The weighted
average number of common shares outstanding for computing basic
and diluted EPS was 94.0 million for each of the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. For the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, 24.5 million,
24.3 million and 24.9 million shares, respectively,
attributable to common stock equivalents were excluded from the
calculation of diluted EPS because the effect was anti-dilutive.
No adjustments were made to reported net loss in the computation
of EPS.

Use of Estimates and Judgments   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that effect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of the contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Estimates and judgments are used when accounting for the
allowance for doubtful accounts, long-lived assets, intangible
assets, recognition of revenue, assessing control

F-32

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

over operations of business ventures, self-insured workers 
compensation and product liability claims, depreciation and
amortization, employee benefit plans, income taxes and
contingencies, among others.

The Company reviews all significant estimates affecting its
consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis and
records the effect of any necessary adjustment prior to their
publication. Uncertainties with respect to such estimates,
judgments and assumptions are inherent in the preparation of
financial statements; accordingly, it is possible that actual
results could differ from those estimates and judgments and
changes to estimates and judgments could occur in the near term.

New Accounting Pronouncements   

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46,
  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 ( FIN No. 46 ) and issued
FIN No. 46R in December 2003, which amended
FIN No. 46. Both FIN No. 46 and
FIN No. 46R require certain variable interest entities
to be consolidated in certain circumstances by the primary
beneficiary, even if it lacks a controlling financial interest.
The adoption of FIN No. 46 and FIN No. 46R
did not have a material impact on the Company s operational
results or financial position.

In September 2004, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue
No. 04-10,   Determining Whether to Aggregate
Operating Segments That Do Not Meet the Quantitative Thresholds
 ( EITF No. 04-10 ) , that operating
segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds of
SFAS No. 131,   Disclosures about Segments of
an Enterprise and Related Information
 ( SFAS No. 131 )  can be aggregated
only if the segments have similar economic characteristics and
the segments share a majority of the aggregation criteria listed
in SFAS No. 131. The adoption of EITF No. 04-10
had no material effect on the Company s financial position,
result of operations, or disclosures.

4.  
     
     Accounting Changes  

Elimination of the Three-Month Lag Reporting Policy   

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company changed its policy
regarding the accounting for business ventures previously
reported on a three-month lag basis. All of the Company s
current operating business ventures with the exception of
PeterStar have historically reported their financial results on
a three-month lag. Therefore, the Company s financial
results for the year ended December 31, 2002 includes the
results for those business ventures for the twelve months ended
September 30, 2002. In an effort to provide more timely and
meaningful financial information on the Company s business
operations, the Company determined that all business ventures
should be reported on a real-time basis. Therefore, the
financial results as of and for the year ended December 31,
2003 reflect the change of bringing all business ventures off of
the lag. As a result of this change, $2.0 million is
reflected as income related to the cumulative effect of a change
in accounting principle and $0.5 million is included in
income from discontinued components for the year ended
December 31, 2003.

F-33

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The effect of this change on the consolidated statement of
operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003 is
as follows (in thousands, except per share data):

Effect of Change in Year-End for Lag Ventures 

F-34

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The pro forma effect as if the Company had reported all business
ventures on a real time basis during the year ended
December 31, 2002 is as follows (in thousands, except per
share data):

Year Ended    

December 31,    

2002    

(Restated)    

Net loss attributable to common stockholders as reported

$ 
     (124,527 
     ) 

Add back:

Incremental net income for the lag period for continuing
    components

1,543 

Proforma net loss attributable to common stockholders

(122,984 
     ) 

Add back:

Proforma loss from discontinued components

35,563 

Proforma net loss from continuing operations attributable to
    common stockholders

$ 
     (87,421 
     ) 

Loss per share attributable to common stockholders as
    reported   Basic and Diluted

$ 
     (1.32 
     ) 

Add back:

Loss per share attributable to incremental net income for the
    lag period for continuing components

0.02 

Proforma loss per share attributable to common
    stockholders   Basic and Diluted

(1.30 
     ) 

Add back:

Loss per share attributable to proforma loss from discontinued
    components

0.38 

Proforma loss per share from continuing operations attributable
    to common stockholders

$ 
     (0.92 
     ) 

Included in the pro forma loss from discontinued components is
the effect of lag adjustments of $0.7 million for the year
ended December 31, 2002.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets   

On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted
SFAS No. 142. SFAS No. 142 eliminates the
amortization of goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have
indefinite lives and instead requires that such assets be
subject to annual impairment tests.

In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill was tested
for transitional impairment by comparing the fair value of the
Company s reporting units to their carrying values. As of
January 1, 2002, the fair value of the reporting
units  exceeded their carrying value except for Snapper and
Baltic Communications Ltd., a local and long distance telephony
operator in St. Petersburg, Russia ( BCL ). The
Company completed its analysis of Snapper and BCL and determined
that transitional impairment charges of $13.6 million and
$1.1 million, respectively, were required. Accordingly, the
Company recorded a $1.1 million charge as a cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle and a
$13.6 million charge to discontinued components as of
January 1, 2002.

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
    Assets   

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted
SFAS No. 144,   Accounting for the Impairment
or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets 
 ( SFAS No. 144 ). SFAS No. 144
provides a consistent method to value long-lived assets to be
disposed of and broadens the presentation of discontinued
operations to include more disposal transactions. The adoption
of SFAS No. 144 did not have a material effect on the
Company s results

F-35

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

of operations, statement of position, or cash flows as of
January 1, 2002. However, the Company recorded losses as a
result of the application of SFAS No. 144 during 2002.

5.  
     
     Asset Impairment Charges  

The following table summarizes the components of the asset
impairment charges recorded by the Company for continuing
operations in the years ended December 31 (in thousands):

In the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a
non-cash charge to earnings of $1.5 million for the
write-down of the Company s investment in Cosmos TV, which
has been included as a write-down of investment in
unconsolidated investees. The Company received indicators of
value in relation to selling the Company s interests in
Cosmos TV, evaluated the carrying value and determined that
there was a loss in value that was other than temporary.
Accordingly, in accordance with APB Opinion No. 18
 The Equity Method of Accounting For Investments in Common
Stock  ( APB No. 18 ), the Company recorded
an impairment charge of $1.5 million against the
Company s investment in Cosmos TV. Cosmos TV was sold on
March 26, 2004.

The 2002 impairment charges of $7.4 million relating to
consolidated ventures are reflected in the asset impairment and
restructuring charge in the accompanying consolidated statement
of operations. The Company determined the impairment charges
based on expected cash flows.

The 2002 impairment charges relating to unconsolidated ventures
of $27.3 million are reflected in the equity in losses of
unconsolidated investees, in the accompanying consolidated
statement of operations. Such charges related to the
Company s investments in Comstar and Kosmos TV. The Company
evaluated the carrying value of each of these businesses and
determined that there was a loss in value that was other than
temporary. Accordingly, in accordance with APB Opinion
No. 18, the Company recorded impairment charges against the
license and goodwill carried as part of the carrying value of
these businesses.

F-36

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Such charges are summarized in the following table (in
thousands):

6.  
     
     Investments in and Advances to Business Ventures  

As described in Note 3,  Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies , the Company reflects its net
investment in its equity method accounted for business ventures
under the caption  Investments in and advances to business
ventures.  Accordingly, the components of the
Company s investment in the respective business ventures
reflects the Company s original investment, recorded at
cost, and adjusted for the Company s share of undistributed
earnings or losses of the business venture as well as
distributions received; and cash advances (including accrued
interest) pursuant to the line of credit agreements between the
Company and the respective business ventures, which are
adjusted, when necessary, to reflect only the amounts
recoverable under the credit agreements.

Credit Agreements with Business Ventures   

The Company had historically entered into credit agreements with
its business ventures and subsidiaries, including those
classified as discontinued operations, and had made advances to
the business ventures in the form of cash, for working capital
purposes, payment of expenses or capital expenditures, or in the
form of equipment purchased on behalf of the business ventures.
Interest rates charged to the business ventures and subsidiaries
ranged from prime rate to prime rate plus 6%. The credit
agreements generally provided for the payment of principal and
interest from 90% of the business ventures  and
subsidiaries  available cash flow, as defined, prior to any
distributions of dividends to the business venture partners. The
Company s funding commitments are contingent on its
approval of the respective business ventures  business
plans. The outstanding amounts due from the Company s
business ventures under these credit agreements has
significantly reduced over the past two years as a result of
business venture dispositions, repayments from business
ventures, limited funding to business ventures and relative
insignificant increases due to interest accruals.

F-37

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The following table summarizes the balances outstanding under
the various credit agreements and activity of the credit
agreements with respect to the underlying business ventures for
the years December 31, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands):

As of December 31, 2004, the credit agreement with the
Ayety business venture, with an aggregate outstanding balance of
$16.2 million, was the principal remaining credit line
outstanding, which has been expensed in prior periods as losses
incurred at Ayety exceeded the Company s carrying value. As
discussed in further detail in Note 14,  Commitments
and Contingent Liabilities   Contingencies  
Mtatsminda Litigation , and Note 17,  Change in
Basis of Presentation , the Company has been involved in
several commercial disputes with Mtatsminda, the Company s
15% minority partner in its Ayety business venture. One of the
claims being made by Mtatsminda is that the $16.2 million
credit agreement between the Company and Ayety is not valid. In
its complaint, Mtatsminda alleges that it suffered damages
because Ayety had used its cash resources to make payments to
International Telcell SPS, Inc. ( International Telcell
SPS ), an intermediate holding company of the Company, in
repayment of a credit facility between Ayety and International
Telcell SPS. Mtatsminda also claims that Ayety has not
authorized the credit facility. Mtatsminda further alleges that
Ayety s funds should have been used to make dividend
payments to Mtatsminda. The Company disputes these claims and
has filed a counter-suit in the Georgian courts. Of the
$16.2 million outstanding on the Ayety credit line,
$8.4 million represents the principal portion of the
obligation with the remaining amount outstanding representing
accrued interest. Due to Ayety s inability to generate
sufficient free cash flows from business operations, it has not
repaid any amounts under the credit agreement and with the
compounding of interest, the amount outstanding exceeds the
contractual obligation amount of the credit agreement. Such lack
of repayment further supports the Company s claim that
Ayety has not been using its free-cash flows to repay the credit
line and further harming Mtatsminda. The Company believes that
these matters will not result in any material adverse effect on
the Company s consolidated business financial conditions or
results of operations, due to accumulated losses recognized
related to the Company s investment in Ayety.

In addition, as of December 31, 2004 the Company had an
outstanding credit agreement, of $0.1 million, with a
business venture that was sold in April 2005.

Investments in and Advances to Business Ventures   

As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company s
 investment in and advances to business ventures 
balance included within the Company s consolidated balance
sheet reflected the Company s effective 34.5% equity
investment in Magticom through Telcell. As discussed previously,
as a result of transactions in mid-February 2005 and
mid-September 2005, the Company s effective ownership
interest in Magticom has increased to 50.1% (see Note 19,
 Subsequent Events   Acquisition of Additional
Interests in Magticom ).

F-38

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The components of the Company s investments in and advances
to business ventures at December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as
follows (in thousands):

As of December 31, 2004, the Company s
 investments in and advances to business ventures 
balance reflects only the Company s net investment in
Magticom, since the Company s U.S. GAAP investment
carrying balance (net of accumulated losses and currency
translation adjustments) in Telecom Georgia business venture was
zero.

Changes in the Investments in and Advances to Continuing
    Business Ventures   

The changes in the investments in and advances to continuing
business ventures (which principally represents Telcell/Magticom
and Telecom Georgia through December 31, 2003) are as
follows (in thousands):

Dispositions   

Certain telephony and cable business ventures in which the
Company disposed of its interests in, or in respect of which the
Board of Directors had approved a formal plan for disposal,
were/are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.

The results of such business ventures are required to be
presented in the statements of operations of the Company as
continuing operations and have been included in the  equity
in income (losses) of unconsolidated investees. 

F-39

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Such business ventures principally include:

Comstar and Kosmos TV were disposed as a part of the Adamant
transaction while MTR Svyaz and Teleport TP were disposed as a
part of the Technocom transaction (See Note 12,
 Discontinued Components ). The remaining transactions
are as follows:

Cosmos TV Disposition   

On March 26, 2004, the Company announced that it had
completed the sale of its interests in various cable ventures,
including its 50% ownership interest in Cosmos TV
( Cosmos ), to Star Broadband Limited, a British
Virgin Islands company, which is controlled by Dominic Reid,
former General Director of the Company s cable business
group, for $0.7 million. The Company recorded neither a
gain nor a loss on the sale of Cosmos, due to the fact that the
Company had written down its investment in Cosmos in the fourth
quarter of 2003 to the estimated fair value less costs to sell,
and as such, recorded a $1.7 million impairment charge.

Teleplus Disposition   

On November 21, 2003, the Company sold its 45% ownership
interest in the St. Petersburg, Russia cable television company,
Teleplus, to a Russian company Svyaz-Kapital and AVT Systems
Ltd., a company organized under the laws of Cayman Islands, for
cash consideration of $0.9 million. The Company recognized
a gain of $0.7 million on the disposition in the fourth
quarter of 2003.

Tyumenruskom Disposition   

On September 24, 2003, the Company sold its 46% ownership
interest in the Russian mobile phone company Tyumenruskom to a
Russian company for cash consideration of $1.2 million. In
addition, the Company was released from its guarantee of
Tyumenruskom s debt by a vendor. The Company had previously
recorded a reserve related to this guarantee that totaled
$1.4 million on the date of the transaction. The Company
recognized a gain on the disposition of $2.5 million, which
was recorded in the third quarter of 2003.

Baltcom TV Disposition   

On August 1, 2003, the Company sold its 50% ownership
interest in the Latvian cable television company Baltcom TV
( Baltcom ) to the Latvian company SIA Alina
( Alina ) for cash consideration of

F-40

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

$14.5 million. Alina had owned 45% of Baltcom prior to the
transaction. The Company recognized a gain of $9.9 million
on the disposition, which was recorded in the third quarter of
2003.

Omni-Metromedia/Caspian American Disposition   

In August 2002, the Company sold its indirect 74.1% interest in
Omni-Metromedia Caspian, Ltd. ( Omni-Metromedia ).
Omni-Metromedia was a holding company through which the Company
owned a 50% interest in Caspian American Telecommunications LLC
( Caspian American ), a wireless telephony venture in
Azerbaijan. The Company received proceeds of $0.1 million
and incurred transaction costs of $0.1 million, which were
composed of legal fees and a severance payment to Caspian
American s former co-general director. As the Company had
previously abandoned its operations at Caspian American, no loss
was recognized on the disposal of Caspian American. The Company
recognized a gain of $2.4 million in the second quarter of
2002 on the sale of its business interest in Omni-Metromedia to
reverse a contingent liability that previously had been recorded
for this business in the fourth quarter of 2000.

Commstruct International/ BELCEL Disposition   

In July 2002, the Company closed on the sale of its 100%
ownership interest in Commstruct International Byelorussia B.V.
( Commstruct International ). Commstruct International
was a holding company through which the Company owned a 50%
interest in Belarus-Netherlands BELCEL Joint Venture, which
owned a wireless network in Belarus. The Company received cash
proceeds from the sale of $1.7 million and incurred
immaterial transaction costs. The Company recorded a gain on the
disposition of $1.3 million in the third quarter of 2002.

Alma-TV 
    Disposition   

In May 2002, the Company sold its indirect 50% interest in
 Alma-TV,  a cable
television provider in Kazakhstan. The Company received cash
proceeds of $9.4 million from the sale and incurred
transaction costs of $0.9 million, which were comprised
principally of a $0.8 million broker fee as well as legal
and accounting fees. The Company recorded a gain on the
disposition of $1.7 million in the second quarter of 2002.

Financial Information   

The following tables represent condensed financial information
for the Company s operating unconsolidated business
ventures, including those disposed, up to the date of
disposition, as of and for the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002. With the exception of the Company s
70.41% ownership interest in

F-41

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Telcell, for all periods presented within the following tables,
the Company s ownership interest in the respective
unconsolidated business ventures was 50% or less.

The results of operations presented below are before the
elimination of intercompany interest (in thousands):

F-42

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(1)  
     
    Magticom, the Other Wireless Telephony and Cable Television
    businesses include the results of operations for the twelve
    months ended September 30, 2002, as such businesses were
    previously reported on a three-month lag. 

During the year ended December 31, 2002, a gain of
$1.0 million was realized representing recovery of an
equipment payment guarantee, arising from loan repayments made
by Tyumenruskom during 2002. During 1999, the Company had
recorded an impairment charge of $4.3 million relating to
the guarantee of this loan. This guarantee was cancelled as a
result of the sale of the related business venture.

F-43

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The condensed balance sheets of Magticom as of December 31,
2004 and 2003 are as follows (in thousands):

7.  
     
     Long-Term Debt  

Long-term debt consisted of the following (in thousands):

In September 1999, the Company entered into a trust agreement to
issue the Senior Notes in the face amount of
$210.6 million. The Senior Notes were unsecured but ranked
senior to all existing and future subordinated indebtedness of
the Company. The Senior Notes were not subject to sinking fund
requirements and were redeemable at the Company s option at
any time. The principal was due, in its entirety, in September
2007. The Senior Notes bore interest at a rate of
10  1  / 2 % per
annum, payable semiannually on March 31st and
September 30th, respectively.

F-44

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Prior to the redemption of the Senior Notes in August 2005,
under the terms of the indenture governing the Senior Notes, the
Company and certain of its business ventures were subject to
certain covenants pertaining to their financing activities. Such
covenants restricted the Company and certain of its subsidiaries
from paying dividends, acquiring its capital stock, prepaying
subordinated indebtedness, investing in and selling assets and
subsidiary stock, and incurring additional indebtedness, among
other activities. In addition, upon the occurrence of a change
of control of the Company (as defined), the holders of the
Senior Notes had the right to require the Company to repurchase
all or any part of the Senior Notes at a cash purchase price of
101% of the face value of the Senior Notes plus accrued and
unpaid interest as of the date of repurchase, unless the Company
exercised its right to redeem the Senior Notes. In the event of
the Company issuing a redemption notice, the Company would
repurchase all Senior Notes at a cash purchase price of 100% of
the face value of the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid
interest as of the date of repurchase.

On April 24, 2003, the Company completed an exchange with
Adamant Advisory Services ( Adamant ) of its ownership
interest in certain of its business ventures in Russia for,
among other things, $58.6 million face value of Senior
Notes held by Adamant, $5.0 million in cash and a release
of its $3.5 million obligation to pay interest accrued on
the Senior Notes being exchanged (see Note 12,
 Discontinued Components   Adamant
Disposition ). With the completion of this transaction, the
outstanding principal balance on the Senior Notes was reduced to
$152.0 million.

On June 3, 2005, the Company defaulted on certain covenants
outlined in the trustee agreement governing the Senior Notes.
The Company paid a fee of $0.4 million to holders of the
Senior Notes on June 9, 2005, which granted the Company an
extension to July 15, 2005 to remedy the events of default.
On July 16, 2005, the Company failed to remedy the
defaults, thus an event of default occurred as of that date.
Furthermore, and as previously discussed, on August 8, 2005
the Company redeemed the remaining balance of the Senior Notes,
including interest accrued and unpaid through that date, at par
with a portion of the cash proceeds from the disposition of
PeterStar (see Note 19,  Subsequent Events  
Disposition of PeterStar  and  Subsequent
Events   Redemption of Senior Notes ).

Obligations Under Capital Leases   

In 2003 and 2002, PeterStar entered into capital lease
agreements for certain telecommunications equipment with a cost
of $0.7 million and $3.9 million, respectively. The
interest rates for the 2003 and 2002 transactions are the
3 month London Interbank Offering Rate plus 9.50%, which at
December 31, 2004 amounted to 12.1%. The capital leases are
collateralized by telecommunications equipment with a net book
value of $2.9 million at December 31, 2004. The
Company sold its interest in PeterStar on August 1, 2005
(See Note 19,  Subsequent Events  
Disposition of PeterStar ).

Other Long-Term Debt   

Included in other long-term debt at December 31, 2004 is a
loan amount that is due by Pskov Telecom, a consolidated
subsidiary of PeterStar, which was acquired by PeterStar in
2004. Such loan at Pskov Telecom is Euro denominated and is due
to a local bank in Pskov, Russia. The principal amount
outstanding at the date of the acquisition was $1.6 million
and is being repaid in increasing annual installments through
the end of 2011. As the Company recognized the fair value of
such loan upon the date of acquisition, the Company incurs
interest expense at the fixed rate of 12% per annum;
however, amounts due to the bank are at a fixed rate of
3% per annum. The Company sold its interest in PeterStar on
August 1, 2005 (See Note 19,  Subsequent
Events   Disposition of PeterStar ).

F-45

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Debt and the principal portion of the capital lease maturities
based upon contractual terms for the years ended
December 31 are as follows (in thousands):

8.  
     
     Stockholders  Equity  

Preferred Stock   

There are 70.0 million authorized shares of preferred stock
of which 4.1 million shares have been designated as
7  1  / 4 %
cumulative convertible preferred stock ( Preferred
Stock ) with a liquidation preference of $50.00 per
share, all of which were outstanding as of December 31,
2004 and December 31, 2003.

Dividends on the Preferred Stock are cumulative from the date of
issuance and payable quarterly, in arrears. The Company may make
any payments due on the Preferred Stock, including dividend
payments and redemptions (i) in cash; (ii) through
issuance of the Company s common stock or
(iii) through a combination thereof.

Through March 15, 2001, the Company paid its quarterly
dividends in cash. The Company has elected not to declare a
dividend for any quarterly dividend periods ending after
June 15, 2001. As of December 31, 2004 and
December 31, 2005, total dividends in arrears are
$64.7 million and $84.8 million, respectively. The
amount of dividends that will accumulate for the twelve months
ending December 31, 2006 will be $21.7 million,
inclusive of the effects of compounding and assuming no payments
of the dividends.

The Preferred Stock is redeemable at any time, in whole or in
part, at the discretion of the Company, initially at a price of
$52.5375 per share in the year 2000 and thereafter at
prices declining to $50.00 per share on or after
September 15, 2007, plus in each case all accrued and
unpaid dividends as of the redemption date. As of
December 31, 2004, the Company has not redeemed any of the
Preferred Stock. The Preferred Stock is not subject to any
sinking fund provisions.

The Preferred Stock is convertible at any time at the option of
the holders into shares of common stock of the Company. The rate
used to determine the number of shares of common stock is a
function of the liquidation preference, any accrued and unpaid
dividends and the initial conversion price of $15.00, subject to
adjustment based on certain events defined in the Certificate of
Designation. As of December 31, 2004, no shares of
Preferred Stock have been converted into shares of common stock.
Furthermore, the Certificate of Designation provides that each
holder of shares of Preferred Stock has a one-time option to
convert their shares of Preferred Stock into common stock upon
the Company triggering the  sale of all or substantially
all of the assets of the Company  clause, as defined in the
Certificate of Designation (the  Sale Event ). If such
an event were to occur, the Company would ascertain if the
average closing price of a share of common stock for the five
trading days preceding the Sale Event is less than the
conversion price discussed in the preceding paragraph (currently
$15). If the average closing price of a share of common stock
for the five trading days preceding the Sale Event was lower
than the conversion price discussed above, then preferred
stockholders would have a one-time option to convert their
shares of Preferred Stock (the liquidation value of the
Preferred Stock, including accrued and unpaid dividends) into
common stock. If any holder of Preferred Stock chooses

F-46

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

to exercise this one-time conversion option, they would have the
right to convert their shares of Preferred Stock into common
stock at a conversion price equal to the greater of:

the average closing price of common stock for the five trading
    days preceding the Sale Event, and 

$7.91. 

However, in lieu of issuing shares of common stock upon the
exercise of this one-time conversion option, the Company would
have the right, at its sole option, to make a cash payment in an
amount equal to the average closing price of a share of common
stock for the five trading days preceding the Sale Event for
each share otherwise issuable upon exercise of this one-time
conversion option. This one-time conversion option would have to
be exercised within 30 days following the consummation of
the Sale Event. Under the terms of the Certificate of
Designation governing the Preferred Stock, the consummation of
the PeterStar Sale did not constitute a Sale Event.

In the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution,
liquidation or winding up of the Company, the holders of the
Preferred Stock will be entitled to be paid out of the
Company s assets available for distribution to its
stockholders before any payment or distribution is made to the
holders of common stock or other class of stock subordinated to
the Preferred Stock. The holders of the Preferred Stock are
entitled to receive a liquidation preference in the amount of
$50.00 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends, or
a pro rata share of the full amounts to which the holders of the
Preferred Stock are entitled in the event the liquidation
preference cannot be paid in full. Under the terms of the
Certificate of Designation, the consummation of the PeterStar
Sale was not deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Except as
described below, the holders of the Preferred Stock have no
voting rights.

According to the terms of the Company s Preferred Stock, in
the event the Company does not make six consecutive dividend
payments on the Preferred Stock, holders of 25% of the
outstanding Preferred Stock can compel the Company to call a
special meeting of the holders of the Preferred Stock for the
purpose of electing two new directors to the Company s
Board of Directors. As of September 15, 2002, the Company
had failed to make six consecutive Preferred Stock dividend
payments. In June 2004, the Company entered into the Board of
Director Nominee Agreement with certain holders of the Preferred
Stock who represented to the Company that they held
discretionary authority (including the power to vote) with
regard to 2.4 million shares, or approximately 58%, of the
outstanding 4.1 million shares of Preferred Stock. Under
the terms of the Board of Director Nominee Agreement, the
Participating Preferred Stockholders irrevocably waived the
right to request a special meeting of holders of Preferred Stock
to elect directors or take any action to request such a meeting.
This waiver is to remain effective until immediately after the
next annual meeting of the Company s stockholders is held.
In consideration of this waiver, Messrs. Gale and
Henderson, who were identified by the Participating Preferred
Stockholders as director candidates, were elected as
Class III Directors by the Company s Board of
Directors. Their terms will expire at the Company s next
annual meeting of stockholders. At the next annual meeting, the
holders of Preferred Stock will have the right to vote
separately as a class for the election of two directors.

The execution of the Board of Director Nominee Agreement was the
result of several discussions that the Company had with several
holders of the Company s Preferred Stock, which began in
late 2003. The Company believes that the Board of Director
Nominee Agreement was advantageous to the Company because it
eliminated the need to hold a special meeting, which would have
been both time consuming and expensive.

Common Stock   

Effective November 5, 2003, the par value of the
Company s common stock decreased from $1.00 to
$0.01 per share resulting in a reclassification of
$93.1 million from common stock to additional paid-in
capital. There was no impact to the Company s financial
condition or results of operations as a result of this change.

F-47

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

At December 31, 2004, the Company has reserved for future
issuance shares of common stock in connection with stock option
plans and Preferred Stock listed below (in thousands):

Stock Option Plans   

On August 29, 1996, the stockholders approved the
Metromedia International Group, Inc. 1996 Incentive Stock Option
Plan, which was amended and restated effective November 12,
1997 (the  1996 Plan ). The 1996 Plan s term was
for a period of ten years, which lapsed on January 31,
2006. The provisions of the 1996 Plan continue to govern options
issued and outstanding on January 31, 2006. The aggregate
number of shares of common stock that could be issued pursuant
to the exercise of awards under the 1996 plan was
8.0 million. The maximum number of shares that could be the
subject of awards to any one grantee under the plan may not
exceed 250,000 in the aggregate. The plan provided for the
issuance of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options
and stock appreciation rights which could be granted
independently of, or in tandem with, stock options. Incentive
stock options could not be issued with a per share exercise
price less than the fair market value of one share of common
stock at the date of grant. Nonqualified stock options could be
issued at prices and on terms determined in the case of each
stock option grant. Stock options and stock appreciation rights
could be granted for terms of up to but not exceeding ten years
and vest based on the terms of the award agreement, generally
within four years from the date of grant, and become fully
vested and exercisable upon a grantee s death or
retirement. At December 31, 2004, there were options to
purchase 0.9 million shares of common stock outstanding
under the 1996 Plan and an additional 4.6 million shares
available for grant.

Upon the acquisition of PLD Telekom, PLD Telekom s stock
options were converted into options to purchase Company common
stock, based on the acquisition transaction s exchange
ratio. Such options are not issued under or governed by the
terms of the 1996 Plan. At December 31, 2004, options to
purchase a total of 2.1 million shares of common stock were
outstanding under the PLD Telekom plan and the individual
agreements with Stuart Subotnick and John Kluge. The Company no
longer issues options under the PLD Telekom plan.

The per share weighted-average fair value of stock options
granted during 2002 was $0.32 on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted
average assumptions: expected volatility of 117%, expected
dividend yield of zero percent, risk-free interest rate of 4.5%
and an expected life of four years. There were no options
granted in 2003 or 2004.

F-48

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Stock option activity during the periods indicated is as follows
(in thousands except per share amounts):

(1)  
     
    The Company has restated the  options forfeited 
    amounts to reflect terminated options granted to certain
    non-employees. Such terminations related to options granted to
    those non-employees who had provided services to the Company in
    prior years, pursuant to a management services agreement between
    the Company and Metromedia Company, a significant common
    shareholder of the Company. Pursuant to the 1996 Plan, upon the
    termination of such individuals  provision of substantial
    services to the Company, the Company has the right to terminate
    options held by such individuals, within a specific time period
    following the cessation of services. In April 2005, management
    performed an analysis of time frames as to when various
    individuals ceased providing substantial services to the Company
    and provided such information to the Compensation Committee of
    the Board of Directors  (the  Committee ). The
    Committee concurred with management s assessment that these
    individuals ceased providing substantial services to the Company
    in prior periods and thus their options were terminated with
    dates ranging from March 2002 to December 2003. 

At December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, the number of stock
options exercisable was 2.9 million, 3.1 million and
4.0 million, respectively, and the weighted-average
exercise price of these options was $6.59, $6.58 and $6.42,
respectively.

The following table summarizes information about the stock
options outstanding at December 31, 2004 (in thousands,
except per share amounts):

Warrants   

In connection with the acquisition of PLD Telekom, the Company
issued warrants to purchase 700,000 shares of common
stock of the Company at an exercise price, subject to
adjustment, of not

F-49

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

less than $10.00 per share or more than $15.00 per
share. The warrants are exercisable and have an expiration date
of September 30, 2009.

In addition, outstanding warrants to
purchase 2,656,824 shares of the Company s common
stock at an exercise price of $10.39 per share resulted
from the conversion of PLD Telekom, Inc. warrants. The warrants
expired on June 12, 2006 without being exercised.

9.  
     
     Income Taxes  

The Company files a consolidated Federal income tax return with
all of its 80% or greater owned domestic subsidiaries. All of
the Company s business ventures are foreign legal entities,
and as such, are not subject to United States jurisdiction
taxation. Historically, the dividends repatriated to the Company
from its business ventures have not resulted in the payment of
U.S. federal or state income tax because the Company s
domestic based operations  costs exceeded such amounts. The
Company s domestic based operations are comprised of
corporate headquarter activities and consist of corporate
overhead expenditures and debt service obligations associated
with the Company s Senior Notes (through August 8,
2005). A consolidated subsidiary group in which the Company owns
less than 80% files a separate Federal income tax return. The
Company and such subsidiary group calculate their respective tax
liabilities on a separate return basis.

Income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following (in
thousands):

The provision for income taxes for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 applies to continuing
operations. The tax impact on discontinued components for the
year ended December 31, 2004 was not significant.
Discontinued components are reported net of tax expense of
$0.2 million and a tax benefit of $1.7 million for the
years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

The Company had pre-tax income from foreign operations of
$33.2 million and $24.6 million for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively and pre-tax losses
from foreign operations of $5.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. Pre-tax losses from domestic operations
before minority interest were $43.2 million,
$5.3 million; and $100.5 million for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Included in
such foreign and domestic amounts, the Company had pre-tax
income from discontinued components of $6.6 million and
$10.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2004
and 2003, respectively, and a pre-tax loss of $38.0 million
for the year ended December 31, 2002.

F-50

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The temporary differences and carryforwards which give rise to
deferred tax assets (liabilities) are as follows (in
thousands):

The net change in the total valuation allowance for the year
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was a decrease of
$17.8 million, and increases of $51.5 million and
$28.5 million, respectively.

For all of the Company s business ventures, the
Company s federal tax basis is different than the
Company s U.S. GAAP financial statement carrying
balance. If the business ventures are disposed of in other than
a tax-free manner and to the extent that the Company s
federal tax basis is different from the Company s
U.S. GAAP financial statement carrying balance, the Company
would recognize either a deferred tax asset or liability. If the
tax basis exceeds the U.S. GAAP financial statement
carrying balance, a tax asset would be recognized; whereas, if
the tax basis is lower than the U.S. GAAP financial
statement carrying balance, a tax

F-51

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

liability would be recognized. The asset or liability will
adjust the Company s net operating loss carryforward or
capital loss carryforward when ultimately included in the tax
return. During the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
the Company determined that the difference in the tax basis and
the U.S. GAAP financial statement carrying balance for
certain business ventures, would reverse in the foreseeable
future. Accordingly, at December 31, 2004 and 2003, the
Company recorded net deferred tax liabilities of
$8.9 million and $4.2 million, respectively. In
addition, the Company recorded a deferred tax asset of
$13.2 million on basis differences in discontinued
operations at December 31, 2003. Such amounts were offset
by changes in the valuation allowance for net deferred tax
assets.

The Company s income tax expense differs from the expense
(benefit) that would have resulted from applying the federal
statutory rates during those periods to income (loss) from
continuing operations before the income tax expense, as follows
(in thousands):

F-52

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The Company s Federal tax attributes (net operating loss
carryforwards, net capital loss carryforwards and unused minimum
tax credits), prior to any limitations under Section 382
and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, consists of (In thousands):

The Company s Federal tax attributes (net operating loss
carryforwards and net capital loss carryforwards), prior to any
limitations under Section 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue
Code, expire as follows (In thousands):

The minimum tax credit may be carried forward indefinitely to
offset regular tax in certain circumstances. In addition, under
Section 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, annual
limitations apply to the use of certain net operating loss
carryforwards. To the extent losses equal to the annual
limitation have not been used, the unused amount is generally
available to be carried forward and used to increase the
applicable limitation in the succeeding year. Based on past
events that were deemed change of control events as defined
under the Internal Revenue Code; that is the 1995 business
combination between The Actava Group, Inc. and

F-53

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Metromedia International Telecommunications, Inc. and the 1999
business combination with PLD Telekom, Inc., the Company has
annual limitations with respect to its utilization of its
$614.7 million net operating loss carryforwards. As of
December 31, 2004, the Company has available net operating
loss carryforwards of $499.0 million that are not subject
to any such limitation. As of December 31, 2004, the
Company s capital loss carryforwards and unused minimum tax
credits are not subject to any such limitations.

The utilization of these tax attributes to offset future federal
taxable income is subject to the Company s domestic based
operations generating taxable income, which is not currently
foreseen due to the nature of the Company s domestic
operations, and to offset any gains that might arise from the
sale of the Company s business ventures where the
Company s federal tax basis is lower than sale proceeds.
With respect to the PeterStar Sale in 2005, since the
Company s federal and state tax basis in PeterStar is lower
than the proceeds, the Company utilized its anticipated 2005
losses and its cumulative 2004 tax attributes to offset any
federal or state tax gain that was recognized.

Annual tax provisions include amounts considered sufficient to
pay probable assessments for examination of prior-year tax
returns by federal, foreign, state and local jurisdictions.
Actual assessments may differ; however, the Company does not
expect that such an outcome would have a material effect on the
future financial statements for a particular year, although such
an outcome is possible.

10.  
     
     Employee Benefit Plans  

Defined Benefit Pension Plan   

Until the third quarter of 2004, the Company sponsored two
tax-qualified defined benefit pension plans in the
U.S. These plans covered certain former employees of the
Company and one of its subsidiaries. The plan covering former
Company personnel was amended effective December 31, 1995,
plan benefits were frozen as of that date. The plan covering the
Company s former subsidiary s personnel was amended
effective December 31, 2002 and plan benefits were frozen
as of that date. The plans were merged at the end of September
2004 to reduce administrative and related expenditures (the
 Pension Plan ). The Pension Plan is a noncontributory
defined benefit pension plan, under which pension benefits are
calculated based on years of service and participants 
compensation. On October 7, 2004, the Board of Directors of
the Company approved management s recommendation to
terminate the Pension Plan pursuant to a standard termination in
accordance with Section 4041 of the ERISA. The unfunded
obligation of the Pension Plan, as recorded by the Company as of
December 31, 2004, was approximately $3.8 million. The
Company s policy has been to contribute annually, at
minimum, amounts required by applicable laws and regulations.
However, the Company has from time to time made contributions in
excess of those legally required. Since the Company commenced
termination of the Pension Plan, no contributions were required
for the 2005 plan year. The final distribution occurred in the
first quarter of 2006 (see Note 19,  Subsequent Events
  Early Termination of Defined Benefit Pension Plan).

The Pension Plan was required, at termination, to have assets
sufficient in value to provide for all retiree benefit
liabilities under the Pension Plan within the meaning of
Section 4041 of ERISA. The Company engaged an outside
actuary to determine the additional amount that the Company was
required to contribute to the Pension Plan to satisfy all
benefit liabilities. The Company anticipates that it will
recognize an additional expense of $10.2 million in the
first quarter of 2006 for the termination of the Pension Plan,
which includes recognition of $7.4 million of expense that
is recorded within the  accumulated other comprehensive
loss  line item within the Company s consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 2004.

Supplemental Retirement Plan   

The Company also maintains a nonqualified, unfunded supplemental
retirement plan ( SERP ) for certain former executives
who were based in the U.S. The plan is a noncontributory
defined benefit pension

F-54

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

plan, under which pension benefits are calculated based on a
formula incorporating years of service and participants 
compensation.

Postretirement Medical Benefit Plan   

The Company also provides an unfunded group medical plan and
life insurance coverage for certain former employees subsequent
to retirement (the  Retiree Medical Plan ).

The following tables set forth (1) the combined defined
benefit pension plans  funded status, the pension liability
and the net pension cost recognized in the Company s
consolidated statements of operations, which have been
calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 87,
 Employers  Accounting for Pensions  and
(2) the medical benefit program s funded status,
liability and net cost recognized in the Company s
consolidated statements of operations, which have been
calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 106,
 Employers  Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other than Pensions. 

The funded status of these benefit plans at December 31 was
as follows (in thousands):

F-55

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows (in
thousands):

A breakdown of plan assets for the Merged Plan, by category were:

The investment strategy for the Pension Plan has a long-term
horizon in keeping with the long-term nature of the funding
obligation. The asset allocation for the Pension Plan is
generally in line with the Pension Plan s current asset
holdings to meet pension obligations as they are due. A
professional asset manager externally manages all plan assets.
The long-term rate of return assumption used at
December 31, 2004 for the Pension Plan was 7.25%; and this
rate of return assumption considered various inputs, including a
review of historical plan returns and peer data, as well as
inputs from external advisors for capital market returns,
inflation and other variables.

Benefit expenditures expected to be paid out by the respective
employee benefit plans described above in each of the next five
years (in the absence of final settlement of the obligations)
are as follows (in thousands):

As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the aggregate accumulated
benefit obligation of the Pension Plan and the SERP totaled
$23.7 million and $22.6 million, respectively, and the
Company has recognized an additional minimum pension liability
of $8.4 million and $7.1 million, respectively. As a
result of a change in the additional minimum liabilities
recognized, the Company has included $1.4 million,
$0.7 million and $3.8 million in other comprehensive
loss for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. This liability was established by charges to
shareholders  equity, resulting in no effect to the
accompanying consolidated statement of operations.

The assumed annual health care cost trend rate for the next year
is 10%, gradually decreasing to 5% in 2010. A 1% increase in the
rates would have increased the 2004 accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation by an estimated $25,000. A 1% decrease would
have reduced the obligation by an estimated $22,000.

F-56

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Defined Contribution Plans   

The Company sponsors a defined contribution plan covering most
 U.S.-based  employees as
well as U.S. employees in other countries in which the
Company does business. Participants may contribute a portion of
their pay to the plan, and the Company may match such
contributions up to 50% of the first 6% of the
participants  eligible compensation. The Company s
contribution was $0.1 million for each of the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002; however, the Company was
not required to fund any amounts to the defined contribution
plan, since the Company utilized previously funded contributions
to the plan that were made on behalf of former employees. Such
employees forfeited unvested past Company contributions. As of
December 31, 2004, the defined contribution plan had
$0.2 million of excess cash due to former employee
forfeitures that will be utilized to meet future Company
matching obligations and Plan expenses.

11.  
     
     Business Segment Data  

As of December 31, 2004, the Company had continuing
operations in Northwest Russia and Georgia. At that time, the
Company s reporting segments were PeterStar and Magticom.
The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments
based on operating income and earnings before income taxes.
Equity in income (losses) of unconsolidated investees
reflects elimination of intercompany interest expense and
management fees. Beginning in the third quarter of 2004, the
Company modified its segment reporting to the two above
segments. Prior to that date, the Company had reported its
segments based upon the categorization of its business entities
as fixed telephony, wireless telephony, radio broadcasting and
cable television. Due to the disposition of a substantial number
of the entities grouped in these categories and the fact that
the Company no longer receives financial information from Ayety,
the Company considered PeterStar and Magticom to be the sole
remaining segments as of December 31, 2004. Therefore, the
segment disclosures for 2003 and 2002 have been reclassified to
conform to the current year presentation.

Through June 30, 2004, the Company had operating activities
that were carried out by Ayety, which have been included in
Corporate, Other and Eliminations. As further detailed in
Note 17,  Change in Basis of Presentation , the
Company is in commercial disputes with the Company s
minority partner in Ayety, which have resulted in cessation of
receipt of information required for the Company to continue to
report the operating results of Ayety subsequent to
June 30, 2004.

In addition to the business segments, the Company had other
operating activities that were carried out in business ventures,
which are considered discontinued components (see Note 12,
 Discontinued Components ). Further, the Company had
other unconsolidated activities that were carried out in
business ventures, which were disposed of during 2004, 2003 and
2002 (see Note 6,  Investments in and Advances to
Business Ventures ).

F-57

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The Company s segment information and other unconsolidated
operating activities is set forth for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 in the following tables
(in thousands):

Segment Information 

Year Ended December 31, 2004 

F-58

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Segment Information 

Year Ended December 31, 2003 

F-59

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Segment Information 

Year Ended December 31, 2002 

Information about the Company s continuing operations by
geographic location is as follows (in thousands):

12.  
     
     Discontinued Components  

On September 30, 2003, the Board of Directors formally
approved management s plan to dispose of the remaining
non-core media businesses of the Company. As of
December 31, 2004, the Company had entered into agreements
for the disposition of all non-core media businesses. In
addition, since the first quarter of 2002, the Company had
sought out opportunities to sell other business ventures for the
purpose of improving the Company s liquidity position. In
light of these events, the Company had concluded that certain
business ventures met the criteria for classification as
discontinued business components as outlined in
SFAS No. 144,

F-60

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets,  and these business ventures had been presented as
such within the Company s consolidated financial statements.

Accordingly, the statement of operations of the Company for
current and prior periods has presented the results of
operations of the discontinued components, including any gain or
loss recognized on such disposition, in income (loss) from
discontinued components and the balance sheets present the
assets and liabilities of such operations as assets and
liabilities of discontinued components.

A summary of significant dispositions of such businesses from
January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2004 is included below.

Vilsat Disposition   

On October 12, 2004, the Company sold its 85% ownership
interests in UAB Viginta ( Vilsat ) to the minority
owner of Vilsat for cash consideration of $0.7 million. The
Company received an initial deposit of $25,000 on
September 24, 2004 and finalized the terms and received
final settlement on October 12, 2004. The Company recorded
an impairment charge to earnings in the third quarter of 2004 in
the amount of $0.4 million to reflect the net assets of
Vilsat at the lower of cost or fair value less cost to sell.

Radio Group Disposition   

In September 2004, the Company entered into a stock purchase
agreement pursuant to which it sold its wholly-owned radio
business venture, Metromedia International, Inc.
( MII ), to Communicorp Group Limited
( Communicorp ) for an aggregate cash purchase price
of approximately $14.3 million, which was subject to
further adjustment.

MII held the Company s interests in seventeen of the
Company s remaining eighteen radio businesses, which
operated in Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland and
Hungary. Under the stock purchase agreement, Communicorp
acquired the outstanding stock of MII for payments of
$13.5 million, which had been received by the Company on
September 7, 2004, with the remaining $0.8 million due
six months after closing. The agreement provided for an
adjustment to the purchase price, if the consolidated net assets
of MII at closing differed by more than two percent (2%) from
the projected amount the Company had provided to Communicorp
(the  Net Asset Adjustment ). As a result of the Net
Asset Adjustment mechanism, Communicorp s final payment of
$0.8 million was reduced by $0.4 million since
consolidated net assets of MII at closing was lower than the
projected amount the Company had provided to Communicorp. Such
payment was received on March 11, 2005.

The sale of MII resulted in the recognition of a gain of
$0.1 million, which has been presented in discontinued
components for the year ended December 31, 2004.

Radio Skonto Disposition   

On April 28, 2004, the Company sold its 55% interest in
Radio Skonto ( Skonto ) to A/ S Multibanka, a stock
company registered in Latvia already owning 10% of Skonto. In
addition, the Company agreed to assign its right to collect from
Skonto unpaid management fees to A/ S Multibanka or A/ S
Multibanka s designee. Total consideration for the
ownership rights and assigned receivable was $0.5 million.
The Company recognized a gain on the disposition of
$0.3 million, which was recorded in the second quarter of
2004.

ATK Disposition   

On March 26, 2004, the Company announced that it completed
the sale of its interests in Arkhangelsk Television Company
( ATK ) to Yuri Firsov, the General Director of ATK,
for cash proceeds of

F-61

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

$1.5 million. The Company recognized a gain on the
disposition of $0.5 million, which has been presented in
discontinued components for the year ended December 31,
2004.

Romsat Disposition   

On March 4, 2004, the Company announced that it had
completed the sale of its interests in FX Communications S.R.L.
(aka Romsat Cable TV) and FX Internet S.R.L., to a consortium of
buyers that included Romania Cable Systems S.A. and Astral
Telecom S.A. in a transaction that resulted in cash proceeds of
$16.5 million. The Company recognized a gain of
$5.2 million on the disposition, which has been presented
in discontinued business components for the year ended
December 31, 2004.

Sun TV Disposition   

On November 12, 2003, the Company sold its interest in the
Moldovan cable television company Sun TV and Sun Constructie
S.R.L., a Moldovan trading company, to Lekert Management, LTD, a
company organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands
for cash consideration of $2.1 million. Lekert Management,
Ltd. is an affiliate of Neocom S.R.L., which owned 35% of Sun TV
prior to the transaction. In accordance with APB Opinion
No. 18, the Company recorded an impairment charge for the
year ended December 31, 2002 of $2.0 million. This
impairment was recorded against the goodwill included as part of
the carrying value of Sun TV. In addition, the Company recorded
a charge to earnings in the third quarter of 2003 in the amount
of $0.3 million to reflect the net assets in Sun TV and Sun
Constructie at the lower of cost or fair value less cost to
sell. The impairment charge was included in the results of
discontinued components.

Technocom Disposition   

On June 25, 2003, the Company sold its wholly owned
subsidiary, Technocom Limited ( Technocom ), for
$4.5 million. Technocom held interests in several Russian
telecommunications enterprises including satellite-based
transport operator Teleport-TP. Simultaneous with the sale of
Technocom, the Company entered into agreements to settle all
historical claims concerning Technocom-related businesses,
including claims arising from litigation in Guernsey that
Technocom initiated in 2002 concerning its majority-owned
subsidiary Roscomm and from arbitration proceedings initiated in
2003 in connection with that Guernsey litigation.

The Company received cash proceeds of $4.5 million and
incurred closing costs of $0.6 million, principally legal
fees and severance costs, resulting in a gain of
$2.8 million on the disposition, which was recorded in
discontinued components for the year ended December 31,
2003.

Adamant Disposition   

On April 24, 2003, the Company completed an exchange with
Adamant Advisory Services ( Adamant ) of its ownership
in certain of its business ventures in Russia for
$58.6 million, face value, of the Company s Senior
Notes held by Adamant. The Company conveyed to Adamant its
ownership interests in Comstar, a Moscow-based fixed-line
telephony operator ( Comstar  Kosmos TV, a
Moscow-based cable television operator ( Kosmos TV 
and the Company s Russian radio businesses (the  Radio
Businesses ). In addition to conveying the Senior Notes to
the Company, Adamant paid $5.0 million in cash and released
the Company of its $3.5 million obligation to pay interest
accrued on the Senior Notes being exchanged. The consideration
was determined by arms length negotiations between the Company
and Adamant.

The Company has recorded a gain related to this transaction of
$31.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2003,
which is comprised of a $24.6 million gain related to the
early extinguishment of the exchanged Senior Notes and a
$7.2 million gain on the transfer of the Company s
interests in the Radio Businesses. Such gain on debt was
adjusted to $24.6 million in the third quarter of 2003, due
to a favorable

F-62

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

adjustment of $0.5 million to professional fees previously
accrued. The gain on early extinguishment was reflected in the
Company s income from continuing operations in the year
ended December 31, 2003, while the gain on sale of the
Company s interests in the Radio Businesses was reflected
in the income from operations of discontinued components in the
year ended December 31, 2003. In addition, in the year
ended December 31, 2002, the Company recorded impairment
charges totaling $27.3 million to reflect Comstar and
Kosmos TV, unconsolidated investees of the Company, at their
respective fair values. The impairment charge was reflected in
equity in income (losses) of unconsolidated investees for the
year ended December 31, 2002.

Snapper, Inc. Disposition   

On November 27, 2002, the Company completed the sale of
substantially all of the assets and certain liabilities of
Snapper, Inc. ( Snapper ) to Simplicity Manufacturing,
Inc. ( Simplicity ) for an ultimate sale price of
$60.0 million. Snapper manufactured premium-priced power
lawnmowers, garden tillers, snow throwers and related parts and
accessories.

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, the
Company completed its evaluation of the fair value of Snapper
and determined that, as of January 1, 2002, there was a
transitional impairment charge required on the Company s
then recorded goodwill. Consequently, the Company recorded a
$13.6 million transitional charge in 2002. In addition, the
Company recorded an estimated loss on disposal of
$10.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2002.
Such loss was based on the minimum amount of cash expected once
the final terms of the settlement with the buyer were agreed.
The $10.1 million estimated loss was comprised of a write
down of assets and estimated severance and disposal costs.

In the quarter ended June 30, 2003, a final accounting for
this transaction was made, and the Company adjusted a receivable
that was due from Simplicity to $6.0 million to include
additional net proceeds due to the Company of $0.7 million.
The additional net proceeds were recorded as an adjustment to
the loss on sale in income from discontinued components in the
quarter ended June 30, 2003 and resulted in an adjusted net
loss on disposal of $9.4 million.

Simplicity paid the $6.0 million to the Company in the year
ended December 31, 2003.

Metromedia China Corporation   

In July 2002, the Company commenced a rights offering to the
existing minority shareholders of Metromedia China Corporation
( MCC ), a majority owned subsidiary. The rights
offering expired on August 22, 2002. Management determined
prior to commencing the rights offering that it might not be
able to continue to fund the operations or meet the minimum
capital contributions required under the existing charter
documents for MCC s operating subsidiaries. Furthermore,
management further recognized that if the rights offering were
successful in raising the minimal funding required to sustain
the operations, the Company would be substantially diluted in
its ownership rights in MCC.

Accordingly, the Company recorded a charge to earnings during
the year ended December 31, 2002 totaling $0.9 million
to reduce the carrying value of MCC to the Company s best
estimate as to the value that would be realized from the
disposition of its ownership interests in MCC and/or the
operating subsidiaries of MCC.

On September 19, 2002, the Company notified the minority
shareholders of MCC that it had negotiated the sale of two of
the three MCC operating subsidiaries to one of the general
directors of MCC. In addition, the Company began the asset sale
closing process for the two operating subsidiaries and began the
liquidation process for the third operating subsidiary. The sale
of the two operating subsidiaries was completed in early 2003.

F-63

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Other   

The Company recognized a gain of $0.5 million related to
the settlement of the remaining severance obligations and other
liabilities of the discontinued components in the year ended
December 31, 2004.

The Company recognized income of $0.5 million in
discontinued components in the year ended December 31, 2003
related to the cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle (see Note 4,  Accounting Changes  
Elimination of the Three-Month Lag Reporting Policy ).

During the three months ended September 30, 2003, the
Company recorded a charge to earnings in the amount of
$0.9 million to reflect the net assets of Arkhangelsk
Television Company ( ATK ) at the lower of cost or
fair value, less costs to sell. Such loss is included in the
results of discontinued components.

During 2003, the Company recognized a gain of $0.2 million
on the sale of Cardlink. Such gain is included in the results of
discontinued components.

The Company disposed of its ownership interests in ALTEL and CPY
Yellow Pages during 2002. Accordingly, such business and
operations have been presented as discontinued components.

In October 2002, the Company received $4.9 million in
settlement of certain claims against RDM Sports Group, Inc.
( RDM ), a former business venture of the Company. RDM
had filed for voluntary bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code in August 1997. Upon release from certain
lawsuits against the Company, RDM and former officers of the
Company, the Chapter 11 trustee remitted payment to the
Company in settlement of the Company s claims against RDM.

In addition, income of $0.3 million and $3.1 million
was realized during the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002, respectively, from tax refunds and related interest
relating to carry-back losses for certain previously disposed of
businesses.

Operating Results   

The combined results of operations of the discontinued radio
businesses are as follows (in thousands):

The combined results of operations of the discontinued cable
businesses are as follows (in thousands):

F-64

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The operating results of the Snapper business segment for the
year ended December 31, 2002 through the date of
disposition are as follows (in thousands):

The combined operating results of the non-core Telephony (ALTEL,
CPY Yellow Pages and Technocom) and other businesses that are
discontinued components for the year ended December 31,
2002 are as follows (in thousands):

The results of operations of the disposed Technocom business
were immaterial for 2003.

The principal balance sheet items included in Discontinued
Business Components are as follows (in thousands):

As discussed in Note 2, Restatement of Financial
Information, the Company has reclassified all assets and
liabilities of discontinued components to reflect such assets
and liabilities as current in the consolidated balance sheet.

F-65

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

13.  
     
     Other Consolidated Financial Statement Information  

Accounts Receivable   

Accounts receivable are recorded at net realizable value. The
allowance for doubtful accounts, which was $2.4 million and
$2.0 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively, was determined through a review of historical
activity and specific outstanding balances.

Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets   

Prepaid expenses and other assets at December 31, 2004 and
2003 consist of the following (in thousands):

Property, Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2004 and 2003
consists of the following (in thousands):

Total depreciation expense for the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002 was $16.5 million, $14.4 million
and $12.1 million, respectively.

F-66

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Intangible Assets and Goodwill   

Intangible assets other than goodwill at December 31, 2004
and 2003 consist of the following (in thousands):

Total amortization expense for the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002 was $6.8 million, $6.6 million and
$8.3 million, respectively. Future amortization is expected
to be $0.2 million for the next three years.

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows (in
thousands):

Accrued Expenses   

Accrued expenses at December 31, 2004 and 2003 consist of
the following (in thousands):

F-67

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Self-Insurance Reserves   

For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the
Company revised the estimated value of its self-insured
workers  compensation and product liability claims based on
its claims experience, which resulted in reductions in the
reserve of $0.2 million, $0.3 million and
$0.9 million, respectively.

Other Long-Term Liabilities   

Other long-term liabilities at December 31, 2004 and 2003
consist of the following (in thousands):

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss   

The accumulated balances for each classification of
comprehensive loss are as follows:

Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information   

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 (in thousands):

F-68

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Interest expense includes accretion of debt discount of
$5.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.

The Company recognized a receivable of $5.3 million during
the year ended December 31, 2002 related to the disposition
of Snapper, which was a non-cash activity.

14.  
     
     Commitments and Contingent Liabilities  

Commitments   

The Company is obligated under various operating and capital
leases. Total rent expense, net of subleases, amounted to
$0.4 million, $0.8 million and $1.0 million for
the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. In addition, the Company recognized an additional
$1.1 million of rent expense for the year ended
December 31, 2003 related to the present value of future
lease commitments for the New York facility that was vacated in
the fourth quarter of 2003. During the quarter ended
December 31, 2004, the Company entered into an agreement
with the landlord of the New York facility and bought out the
remaining term on the lease. As such, the Company recorded a
credit to rent expense of $0.1 million during the fourth
quarter of 2004 to reflect the discount obtained as compared to
the recognized obligation.

Minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable leases, net of
non-cancelable subleases, are set forth in the following table
(in thousands):

Contingencies   

Risks Associated with the Company s Investments  

The ability of the Company and its business ventures to
establish and maintain profitable operations is subject to,
among other things, significant political, economic and social
risks inherent in doing business in Russia (prior to August
2005) and Georgia. These include matters arising out of
government policies, economic conditions, imposition of or
changes in government regulations or policies, imposition of or
changes to taxes or other similar charges by government bodies,
exchange rate fluctuations and controls, civil disturbances,
deprivation or unenforceability of contractual rights, and
taking of property without fair compensation.

In the fourth quarter of 2003, widespread discontent over prior
public elections in Georgia resulted in the premature
resignation of President Eduard Shevardnadze and the election of
Mikhail Saakashvili as the new president of Georgia. These
events had significantly increased the level of political
uncertainty in Georgia and significantly increased the
possibility of general economic distress, civil unrest,
terrorism and a collapse of consumer confidence in Georgia.
Present conditions in Georgia significantly increase the
possibility of general

F-69

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

economic distress and a reduction of consumer confidence in
Georgia, each of which could have a material adverse effect on
the Company s operations.

Furthermore, in February 2004, Dr. George Jokhtaberidze,
co-founder and then majority owner of Magticom and
 son-in -law of former
Georgian president Shevardnadze, was arrested in Georgia pending
investigation of various tax-related matters. Simultaneously,
the Georgian Tax Inspectorate performed a review of certain
interconnect arrangements that Magticom had with other
telecommunications businesses within Georgia to determine
whether Magticom has complied with Georgian tax regulations. In
addition, at the request of the Prosecutor General s Office
of Georgia, the Center for Expertise and Special Inquiries of
the Ministry of Justice of Georgia had completed an additional
review of Magticom s interconnect arrangements to determine
whether Magticom had complied with Georgian tax regulations.

On April 26, 2004, the prosecution by the Georgian
Government of Dr. Jokhtaberidze was dropped without finding
any wrongdoing and Dr. Jokhtaberidze was released from
investigative detention. On the same day, the Georgian
Government investigations into past business and tax payment
practices of Magticom were completed with no adverse findings.

Foreign Currency  

The Company currently does not hedge against exchange rate risk
and therefore could be materially negatively impacted by
declines in exchange rates between the time its business
ventures receive funds in local currency and the time such
business ventures distribute these funds in U.S. Dollars to
the Company. The ability of the Company to hedge is
significantly limited, since the Company s operations are
in the country of Georgia and the Georgian Lari is not readily
convertible outside Georgia.

The Company s strategy is to minimize its foreign currency
risk. Whenever possible, the Company billed and collected
revenues in U.S. Dollars or an equivalent local currency
amount adjusted on a monthly basis for exchange rate
fluctuations. However, due to the strengthening of the Russian
Ruble, effective September 1, 2003 PeterStar began billing
and collecting in Russian Rubles. In a majority of customer
contracts, PeterStar has retained the right to change the
billing currency should PeterStar deem the circumstances warrant
such a change. As a result, PeterStar changed its functional
currency to the Russian Ruble effective October 1, 2003. In
addition, due to changes in its principal liabilities, Magticom
changed its functional currency to the Georgian Lari effective
April 1, 2003.

The Company s business ventures are generally permitted to
maintain U.S. Dollar accounts to service their
U.S. Dollar denominated debt and current account
obligations, thereby reducing foreign currency risk. As the
Company s business ventures expand their operations and
become more dependent on local currency based transactions, the
Company expects that its foreign currency exposure will
increase. However, Magticom established a U.S. Dollar bank
account at a U.S. based financial institution to maintain
its excess cash balance.

Licenses  

The licenses pursuant to which the Company s business
ventures operate are issued for limited periods, including
certain licenses, which are renewable annually. Certain of these
licenses expire over the next several years. As of
December 31, 2004, certain licenses held by the
Company s cable television business venture had expired,
although the business venture has been permitted to continue
operations while the decision on reissuance is pending. Certain
other licenses held or used by the Company s business
ventures expired during 2005 and 2006 and were renewed as these
licenses came up for renewal.

F-70

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Credit Concentrations  

The Company s trade receivables do not represent
significant concentrations of credit risk at December 31,
2004, due to the wide variety of customers/subscribers and
markets into which the Company s services are sold.

Although no individual customer represents more than 10% of
revenues, certain customers account for a significant portion of
the total revenues of certain of the Company s telephony
business ventures and the loss of these customers would
materially and adversely affect their results of operations.

Several of the Company s customers, interconnect parties or
local operators experience liquidity problems from time to time.

Geographic Concentrations  

The Company had formerly owned interests in a large number of
separate business ventures operating in numerous otherwise
independent markets. With the sale of PeterStar and all non-core
businesses, the Company s remaining business interests are
concentrated in Georgia. This circumstance increases the
Company s dependence on the continuing vitality and
stability of only one market and economy. It also limits the
Company s ability to offset temporary downturns in one
market with business activities in a wider array of markets.
These factors could materially increase the Company s
liquidity risk, since the Company is dependent upon dividend
distributions from its business ventures to satisfy corporate
legal obligations and overhead expenditure requirements.
Furthermore, these factors may also limit investor interest in
the Company s stock.

Letters of Credit  

At December 31, 2004, the Company had $6.2 million of
outstanding letters of credit, which serve principally as
collateral for certain liabilities under the Company s
self-insurance program. Such letters of credit are fully
collateralized with cash held at financial institutions, which
are included in  Other assets  on the consolidated
balance sheet. Of the $6.2 million of outstanding letter of
credit, $2.6 million of outstanding letters of credit were
terminated in the first quarter of 2005, as such letters of
credit were deemed to be in excess of estimated self-insurance
liabilities.

Litigation   Fuqua Industries Inc. Shareholder
    Litigation  

Since February 1991, there have been ongoing court proceedings
in connection with Fuqua Industries, Inc. shareholder
litigation. On March 1, 2004, the defendants filed motions
for summary judgment seeking to dispose of the case in its
entirety. In response, the plaintiffs filed briefs in opposition
to the motions for summary judgment. The plaintiffs also filed a
motion seeking leave to further amend their complaint, which was
granted on December 14, 2004. A hearing on the motion for
summary judgment was held on April 12, 2005.

On May 6, 2005, the Court rendered an opinion granting in
part and denying in part the defendants  motions for
summary judgment. The Court held that because defendants Scott
and Warner did not owe any fiduciary duties to the Company and
its stockholders at the time that defendant Fuqua sold his
shares of the Company s stock to Triton Group, they were
entitled to summary judgment on any claim of breach of fiduciary
duty associated with that stock sale. The Court also granted
defendants  summary judgment motions on two aspects of
plaintiffs  claims. First, the Court granted summary
judgment with respect to plaintiffs  claim that they should
be entitled to recover damages based upon the lost time value of
the $110 million that the Company spent on its program to
repurchase stock. In addition, the Court granted summary
judgment in favor of defendants on plaintiffs  then
currently articulated compensatory damages theory, which was
premised on the claim that defendants had kept their alleged
entrenchment plan a secret from the market, thereby

F-71

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

allegedly inflating the price of the Company s stock.
Although the Court held that plaintiffs would not be entitled to
assert that particular compensatory damages claim at trial, the
Chancellor found that  plaintiffs remain free to seek
damages arising from the defendants  alleged breach of
fiduciary duty  and that they could continue to rely upon
the report of their damages expert at trial. The Court denied
all of the remaining summary judgment motions and directed the
parties to submit a form of order to implement the decision.

A trial on the remaining claims was scheduled for
January 9, 2006. However, in late December 2005, the
individual defendants and the plaintiff entered into settlement
negotiations and reached an agreement to settle this action (the
 Settlement ). In the proposed Settlement, each of the
defendants has agreed to deposit his share of the aggregate
settlement amount of $7.0 million in an escrow account
maintained for the benefit of the Company in full and complete
release of all the claims in this action. The parties made a
joint application to the Court seeking an approval of the
Settlement. The Court set March 6, 2006, as the date of the
Settlement Hearing. In accordance with a Scheduling Order issued
by the Court, the Company mailed to its shareholders of record
as of January 6, 2006, a Notice of Pendency informing them
of the proposed Settlement. At the March 6, 2006 Settlement
Hearing, the Settlement was approved by the Court, all claims
against the defendants were released and the case was dismissed
with prejudice. Of the $7.0 million in escrowed funds, the
Company received approximately $4.6 million and the
remaining approximately $2.4 million was paid to
plaintiff s legal counsel to cover legal fees and expenses.

The Company was not a defendant in this derivative case.
However, the Company was obligated under its Certificate of
Incorporation to indemnify the defendants, who were former
directors of the Company, for costs incurred by them in
connection with this litigation. The Company s Directors
and Officers liability insurance carrier for this litigation was
Reliance Insurance Company. On May 29, 2001, Reliance
consented to the entry of an Order of Rehabilitation by the
Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania. On October 3, 2001, the
court ordered Reliance Insurance Company into liquidation. The
current status of Reliance Insurance Company raises doubt
concerning Reliance s ability to reimburse the Company for
the litigation expenses incurred by the Company in connection
with this litigation.

As discussed in further detail within Note 19
 Subsequent Events   Fuqua Industries, Inc.
Shareholder Litigation , the Company revised its estimated
defendant indemnification costs reserve, in the fourth quarter
of 2004, to reflect the estimated costs that the Company will be
obligated to remit to the respective defendants  legal
counsel prior to the resolution of this matter.

Litigation   McLaughlin Matter  

In January 2004, Mr. Matthew McLaughlin filed a complaint
in the Delaware Court of Chancery seeking to enforce his rights
as a stockholder of the Company to inspect and copy certain
books and records of the Company. The Company believes that the
request made by the plaintiff is overly broad and lacks a proper
purpose; however, the Company has been attempting to resolve
this matter over the past two years by responding to the
inquiries that have been made by the plaintiff. The Company has
also been preparing to defend its position in court and
discovery is now in process. No trial has been scheduled in this
case. The Company cannot predict the outcome of any such
proceedings, or the extent to which they could adversely affect
the Company s financial condition and results of operations

On January 28, 2005 and February 16, 2005, the Company
received additional correspondence from
Mr. McLaughlin s legal counsel requesting that the
Company take legal action against certain of its present and
former directors and officers ( Proposed Individual
Defendants ) for alleged improprieties with respect to the
management and operation of the Company. In the January 28,
2005 letter, Mr. McLaughlin s counsel informed the
Company that in the event it failed to respond by March 28,
2005, Mr. McLaughlin would take actions against the
Company, possibly including commencing litigation to obtain
damages from the Proposed Individual Defendants. On
March 18, 2005, the Company s Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer met with Mr. McLaughlin, along
with legal counsel representing both parties, to discuss matters
raised

F-72

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

in Mr. McLaughlin s letters. At that meeting, the
Company also provided to Mr. McLaughlin additional
information and documents sought by him in his requests for
books and records of the Company.

On September 22, 2005, the Company received additional
correspondence from Mr. McLaughlin s legal counsel
stating that Mr. McLaughlin is renewing his demand made in
previous letters to the Company that the Company take legal
action against the Proposed Individual Defendants.
Mr. McLaughlin s counsel further informed the Company
that in the event it failed to respond by November 15,
2005, Mr. McLaughlin would take actions he deems
appropriate, which may include commencing litigation to obtain
damages from the Proposed Individual Defendants. The Company has
referred this matter to outside legal counsel. In subsequent
correspondence between the Company s and
Mr. McLaughlin s legal counsel, the November 15,
2005 deadline was extended to February 1, 2006, subject to
the Company providing certain additional information to
McLaughlin. On February 7, 2006, the Company requested a
further extension of time to respond to the September 2005
letter. On October 16, 2006, Mr. McLaughlin sent
another letter to the Company expressing his disagreement with
the proposed asset sale and related bankruptcy filing. On
October 26, 2006, outside counsel for the Company sent
Mr. McLaughlin s counsel a short letter denying the
substance of Mr. McLaughlin s letter. The Company
cannot predict the outcome of matters pending with
Mr. McLaughlin, or the extent to which they could adversely
affect the Company s financial condition and results of
operations.

Georgian Matters  

As previously disclosed, the Company has received letters from,
and corresponded with, two Georgian individuals involved in the
initial formation of certain of the Company s business
ventures in Georgia. These individuals alleged that the Company
has not fully complied with its obligations to them under
certain contracts. In addition, the individuals have alleged
that Company personnel may have violated the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act ( FCPA ) and possibly engaged in other
improper or illegal conduct. Concerning the allegations of
improper or illegal conduct, including FCPA allegations, an
investigation conducted by the Company s outside counsel
failed to uncover any specific factual support for these
allegations. With respect to the contractual claims, the Company
entered into a settlement agreement with one of the individuals.
Upon investigation, the Company determined that the second
individual s allegations of contractual breach had no merit.

Mtatsminda Litigation  

As discussed in further detail in Note 17,  Change in
Basis of Presentation , the Company has been involved in
several commercial disputes with Mtatsminda, the Company s
15% minority partner in its Ayety business venture. These
commercial disagreements have resulted in Mtatsminda filing a
claim on June 25, 2004 against International Telcell SPS
(an intermediate holding company of the Company), Ayety and
Zurab Chigogidze (the General Director of Ayety), in the
Mtatsminda District Court in Tbilisi, Georgia for damages in the
amount of GEL 185,000 (approximately $90,000), GEL 23,000
(approximately $13,000) and GEL 258,000 (approximately
$130,000), respectively. In its complaint, Mtatsminda alleges
that it suffered damages because Ayety had used its cash
resources to make payments to International Telcell SPS in
repayment of a credit facility between Ayety and International
Telcell SPS. Mtatsminda also claims that Ayety has not properly
authorized the credit facility. Mtatsminda further alleges that
Ayety s funds should have been used to make dividend
payments to Mtatsminda.

On September 15, 2004, International Telcell SPS filed a
counterclaim stating that all of Mtatsminda s claims are
groundless. International Telcell SPS also challenged
Mtatsminda s standing in the case due to expiration of the
statute of limitations, non-payment of court duty and other
procedural matters. The hearing of this case has been postponed
on several occasions due to the failure of Mtatsminda s
representatives to attend the hearing. In order for the case to
proceed to trial or be formally withdrawn, an action by

F-73

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Mtatsminda, is required but to date, has not occurred.
International Telcell SPS is prepared to defend its position in
court. Based on the information available and due to the
relatively low amounts of damages claimed, the Company believes
that these matters will not result in any material adverse
effect on the Company s business, financial condition or
results of operations.

On October 22, 2004, Mtatsminda filed a complaint in the
Mtatsminda District Court in Tbilisi, Georgia against
International Telcell SPS, Georgia International LLC, and
 Suny-K  LLC
alleging that International Telcell SPS violated U.S. and
Georgia laws in connection with its purchase of additional
shares of Ayety in 2000. The Company believes that it has not
violated U.S. or Georgian laws in connection with this
transaction. The Company is prepared to defend its position in
the Georgian courts, and in the U.S. courts if necessary. A
hearing date in this case has not yet been scheduled.

On June 28, 2004, the Company was notified by Mtatsminda
that in March 2003, Mtatsminda prepared and filed in the
Georgian courts (which are responsible for company registration
in Georgia) a new Charter of Ayety (the  New
Charter ), which denies International Telcell SPS certain
rights previously afforded to it as an 85% shareholder of Ayety
and allows Mtatsminda to veto certain key decisions regarding
Ayety. The Company believes that the New Charter should not be
recognized as an enforceable legal arrangement since the process
by which the New Charter was prepared and filed in the Georgian
courts was carried out in a manner that was not in compliance
with applicable Georgian law. However, since the New Charter has
already been filed and accepted by the Georgian courts, the New
Charter is valid until successfully challenged. In December
2004, the Company filed a complaint in the Mtatsminda District
Court in Tbilisi, Georgia against Mtatsminda to have the New
Charter declared invalid. The Company has been advised that the
court s ruling was principally due to the expiration of the
statue of limitations associated with the timing of the
Company s filing of its complaint. International Telcell
SPS has appealed this ruling. A hearing date in the appellate
court has not yet been scheduled.

Esopus Creek Capital Litigation  

Demand for Books and Records  

On January 17, 2005, the Company received a letter dated
January 14, 2005, purportedly on behalf of Esopus demanding
the right to examine, inspect and copy certain books and records
of the Company (the  Demand ). By letter dated
January 24, 2005, the Company rejected the request as
premature and because the Demand failed to comply with the
requirements of Delaware law. To the knowledge of the Company,
no litigation has been commenced in this matter.

Demand for Shareholders Meeting  

On January 14, 2005, Esopus Creek Capital LLC
( Esopus ) filed a complaint in the Delaware Court of
Chancery, Civil Action
No.  1006-N, 
requesting an order summarily requiring that the Company hold an
annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors.
Subsequently, the Company announced that it would hold an annual
meeting allowing for the election of directors simultaneously
with a meeting called to seek a stockholder vote to approve the
PeterStar Sale transaction. The Company later announced that it
plans to hold a meeting of shareholders shortly following such
time that the Company becomes current with its periodic filings
with the SEC. On March 29, 2005, Esopus filed a stipulation
requesting that this case be dismissed. The dismissal was
granted by the Delaware Court of Chancery on April 13, 2005.

On August 18, 2006, Esopus Creek Capital LLC filed a
complaint in the Delaware Court of Chancery, Civil Action
No. 2358-N, requesting an order of the Court pursuant to
Section 211 of the Delaware General Corporation Law
directing the Company to call and hold an annual meeting of its
stockholders. By a Stipulation and Order, dated
September 26, 2006, the Company agreed to hold an annual
stockholders 

F-74

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

meeting on December 15, 2006. In connection with this
Stipulation, the Company paid certain of plaintiffs  fees
and expenses in the amount of $15,000. The case was dismissed
with prejudice on September 26, 2006.

Legal actions in connection with the proposed asset sale  

On October 18, 2006, Esopus Creek Value LP, an affiliate of
Esopus, filed a complaint in the Delaware Court of Chancery,
Civil Action
No.  2484-N, 
against the Company seeking to enjoin the Company, its directors
and officers from entering into an agreement to sell all or
substantially all of the Company s assets before the
court-ordered December 15, 2006 annual stockholders 
meeting, as well as seeking to enjoin the Company, its directors
and officers from filing a bankruptcy petition before the
court-ordered December 15, 2006 annual stockholders 
meeting, and seeking to compel the Company to hold the annual
stockholders  meeting on December 15, 2006.

On October 19, 2006, plaintiffs Esopus, Black Horse
Capital, LP, Black Horse Capital (QP) LP, and Black Horse
Capital Offshore Ltd. (collectively,  Black Horse )
filed a complaint in the Delaware Court of Chancery, Civil
Action No.  2487-N, 
against the Company, its directors and officers seeking to
enjoin the Company, its officers and directors from entering
into an agreement to sell all or substantially all of the
Company s assets before the court-ordered December 15,
2006 annual stockholders  meeting, as well as seeking to
enjoin the Company, its directors and officers from filing a
bankruptcy petition before the court-ordered December 15,
2006 annual stockholders  meeting, and seeking to compel
the Company, its directors and officers to comply with 8  Del.
C.  271, requiring a stockholder approval for the sale of all
or substantially all assets, before attempting enter into the
asset sale transaction. On October 26, 2006, the Court
consolidated Civil Action
No.  2484-N  into
2487-N, now Consolidated Civil Action
No.  2487-N. 

On October 24, 2006, the Company indicated in a letter to
the Court that it wished to resolve the plaintiffs  claims
as quickly as possible. The Court agreed to hold a preliminary
injunction hearing on November 22, 2006. The parties
conducted expedited discovery and briefing in advance of the
preliminary injunction hearing, which was held in the Court on
November 22, 2006.

Following a November 22, 2006, preliminary injunction
hearing, the Court issued an order (the  Order ),
dated November 29, 2006, pursuant to which it was ordered,
among other things, that (i) the Company and its
representatives, and those persons in active concert or
participation with them, not enter into an agreement for the
sale of all or substantially all of its assets, unless
consummation of such an agreement is subject to a vote of the
common stockholders of the Company pursuant to 8 Del. C. 271,
and (ii) in the event the Company enters into such an
agreement, the Company shall call a meeting of its common
stockholders and at such meeting the common stockholders shall
have the opportunity to vote on the proposed asset sale.

On December 13, 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion for partial
summary judgment. The motion seeks a ruling on plaintiffs 
claims to invalidate a lock-up and voting agreement entered
between the Company and certain of its preferred stockholders.
Plaintiffs contend that the lock-up and voting agreement is
 ultra vires  in violation of the Company s Revised
Certificate of Incorporation, and the performance of which would
be in violation of the Court s Order on plaintiffs 
motion for a preliminary injunction. A briefing schedule on to
plaintiffs  motion for partial summary judgment has not
been entered.

In relation to these two actions, on October 26, 2006,
Esopus sent the Company a letter demanding a copy of the
Company s list of stockholders and related information
pursuant to Section 220 of the Delaware General Corporation
Law. The stated purpose for demanding the stocklist and related
information is to allow Esopus to conduct a proxy solicitation.
In a letter dated November 3, 2006, the Company agreed to
provide Esopus with a stocklist and most of the other
information requested in the October 26, 2006 letter from
Esopus and such information has been provided.

On October 5 and October 6, 2006, the Company received
two notices from a group of stockholders (including Esopus and
Black Horse) nominating a slate of five individuals for election
as directors of the

F-75

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Company to fill the Class I and Class II board seats
up for election at the December 15, 2006 annual meeting and
proposing two stockholder proposals. On December 8, 2006,
this group of stockholders publicly disclosed in a
Schedule 13D amendment (later confirmed in writing to the
Company by letter dated December 11, 2006) their decision
to withdraw their nominees and two stockholder proposals for
consideration at the December 15, 2006 annual meeting and
that they will not solicit proxies in connection with such
meeting.

Environmental Protection  

The Company has been in operation since 1929 through its
predecessors and, over the years, has carried out, itself or
through wholly-owned subsidiaries, business operations in
diverse industries within the United States including equipment,
sporting goods, furniture manufacturing, sheet metal processing,
and trucking. The Company has divested all of its former
U.S. operations. However, in the course of these
divestitures, it has retained, by means of seller
indemnification obligations or as a matter of law, actionable
environmental legal obligations.

In 1987, the Company had agreed to indemnify a former subsidiary
of the Company for certain obligations, liabilities and costs
incurred by the subsidiary arising out of environmental
conditions existing on or prior to the date on which the
subsidiary was sold by the Company. Since that time, the Company
has been involved in various environmental matters involving
property owned and operated by the subsidiary, including
 clean-up  efforts at
landfill sites and the remediation of groundwater contamination.
This activity included, but was not limited to, the
Company s decision to agree to participate, on behalf of
the subsidiary, in remediation pursuant to a global settlement
in 1999 with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency at a
superfund site in Michigan. The costs incurred by the Company
with respect to these matters have not been material during any
year through and including the year ended December 31,
2004. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had a remaining
reserve of approximately $0.4 million, which it believes is
sufficient to cover its environmental obligations associated
with its former subsidiaries operational activities. As
discussed in further detail in Note 19,  Subsequent
Events   Global Settlement and Release with American
Seating , on October 6, 2005, the Company entered an
agreement, whereby; the Company s previously executed
seller indemnity was released by the buyer. The Company, as a
matter of law, could still be held accountable for this former
subsidiary s environmental legal obligation should the
buyer fail to meet future actionable environmental legal
obligations.

Further, the Company has undertaken specific clean up activities
at a contaminated parcel that it continues to own directly. As
of December 31, 2004, the Company had a remaining reserve
of approximately $0.1 million, which it believes is
sufficient to cover its anticipated remediation obligations for
this particular parcel of land.

The Company could incur additional cleanup obligations with
respect to undetected environmental problems at other locations.
Furthermore, its obligation to remediate such environmental
problems could arise as a result of changes in legal
requirements, since the original divestitures. Even though these
divestitures may have occurred many years ago, the Company
cannot assure that environmental matters will not arise in the
future that could have a material adverse effect on its results
of operations or financial condition.

Other Matters  

While the results of any litigation or regulatory issue contain
an element of uncertainty, management believes that the outcome
of any of these known, pending or threatened legal proceedings
will not have a material effect on the Company s
consolidated financial position and results of operations,
except as noted above.

F-76

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

15.  
     
     Related Party Transactions  

Metromedia Company   

Effective January 1, 2002, Metromedia Company, a
significant common shareholder of the Company, agreed to provide
certain consulting services to the Company on an hourly basis as
requested by the Company in the areas of tax, legal and investor
relations pursuant to a Consulting Services Agreement
( CSA ). For the years ended December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002, the Company paid Metromedia Company consulting
fees of $0.2 million, $0.3 million and
$0.8 million, respectively, pursuant to the CSA.
Approximately 50% and 49% of fees paid in 2004 were related to
general managerial services and tax services, respectively, with
the remainder for legal and other services.

Services provided by Metromedia Company pursuant to the CSA have
been provided as requested by the Company and have been invoiced
to the Company at agreed-upon hourly rates. There is no minimum
required level of services. The Company is also obligated to
reimburse Metromedia Company for all of its
 out-of -pocket costs and
expenses incurred and advances paid by Metromedia Company in
connection with services performed by it under the CSA. Pursuant
to the CSA, the Company agreed to indemnify and hold Metromedia
Company harmless from and against any and all damages,
liabilities, losses, claims, actions, suits, proceedings, fees,
costs or expenses (including reasonable attorneys  fees and
other costs and expenses incident to any suit, proceeding or
investigation of any kind) imposed on, incurred by or asserted
against Metromedia Company in connection with the agreement,
other than those in any way relating to or resulting from the
gross negligence or willful misconduct of Metromedia Company,
its employees, consultants or other representatives. The CSA
continues in effect unless and until Metromedia Company or the
Company provides written notice of termination to the other
party, whereupon the CSA will terminate immediately.

Baltic Communications Ltd. Transaction   

On October 1, 2003, the Company sold its 100% ownership
interest in the local and long distance telephony Russian
company, BCL, to PeterStar for cash consideration of
$1.0 million and PeterStar s assumption of BCL s
$2.8 million debt owed to the Company. BCL has continued to
operate as a wholly-owned subsidiary of PeterStar. Since the
merger is among entities under common control, the transaction
was accounted for at historical cost.

Transactions with OAO Telecominvest   

The Company s subsidiary, PeterStar, has entered into
various contractual relationships with Telecominvest, the
Company s minority shareholder in PeterStar and its
affiliates (prior to August 2005) (together, the  TCI
Related Parties ) primarily for the provision of services.
Such services amounted to $13.8 million, $15.3 million
and $12.4 million for the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Such costs are included in
Cost of Services and represent 52%, 65% and 65% of
PeterStar s cost of services for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In
addition, the TCI Related Parties purchased telecommunications
services from PeterStar and its subsidiaries totaling
$4.6 million, $2.7 million and $2.4 million for
the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

Net balances due to the TCI Related Parties amounted to
$0.9 million as of December 31, 2004. Net balances due
from TCI Related Parties amounted to $0.4 million as of
December 31, 2003.

As further discussed in Note 19,  Subsequent
Events   Disposition of PeterStar,  the Company
sold its interest in PeterStar to First National, Emergent and
Pisces for a cash purchase price of $215.0 million. First
National owns a 58.9% stake in Telecominvest.

F-77

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

16.  
     
     Acquisitions and Other Transactions  

PeterStar Acquisitions   

ADM-Murmansk  

On September 1, 2004, PeterStar acquired 100% of the
outstanding shares of ASPOL-Diamant Murmansk
( ADM-Murmansk ), an alternative telephone operator in
the Murmansk region of northwest Russia. Through its telephony
network, utilizing fiber-optic links and digital radio systems,
ADM-Murmansk focuses on the provision of voice, data and
internet services. The Murmansk region is among Russia s
top regions with a very high internet penetration rate, ranking
third just after Moscow and St. Petersburg. It borders Finland
and the Barents Sea (Arctic Ocean). The aggregate cash
consideration of $1.9 million for this transaction was
financed by PeterStar cash reserves. As of December 31,
2004, approximately $0.2 million remains payable to the
seller and is subject to certain closing conditions.

Pskov City Telephone Network/ Pskovinterkom  

On April 27, 2004, PeterStar completed the acquisition of
80% of the outstanding shares of PGTS, an incumbent local
exchange carrier in Northwest Russia, and 89% of the shares of
Pskovinterkom, a smaller local exchange carrier in Pskov and a
sister company of PGTS. The Pskov district is located in the
northwest region of Russia and borders the Baltic States and
Belarus. PeterStar purchased the remaining 11% of the shares of
Pskovinterkom on July 5, 2004. In addition, on
December 15, 2004, PeterStar acquired an additional 10% of
PGTS. Total consideration paid for these transactions was
$1.9 million, which was financed by PeterStar cash reserves.

Comset  

On June 1, 2004, PeterStar entered into a share-purchase
agreement to purchase 100% of  Compyuterniye
Seti  ZAO ( Comset ) from a group of three
private shareholders. Comset is an Internet service provider
operating in St. Petersburg. The aggregate cash consideration of
$0.1 million for this transaction was financed by PeterStar
cash reserves.

F-78

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Following is the fair value of the combined assets acquired and
liabilities assumed of the acquired entities as of their
respective acquisition dates, reflecting the purchase price
allocation to the net assets acquired (in thousands):

The purchase price allocated to intangible assets is primarily
related to certain customer relationships, which will be
amortized over the 3 year estimated life of such
relationships. In addition, these newly acquired companies
contributed revenues of $3.6 million and incurred a net
loss of $0.2 million for periods subsequent to their
respective acquisition dates through December 31, 2004,
representing approximately 4.6% and 1.6% of consolidated
PeterStar revenues and net income, respectively, for the twelve
months ended December 31, 2004. The pro forma impact of
these acquisitions on the operating results of the Company for
the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 are not
deemed material based on revenues and net loss recognized
subsequent to their respective acquisition dates. In addition,
such companies do not maintain their historical books and
records on a U.S. GAAP basis or in U.S. Dollars;
accordingly, such information is not readily available.

17.  
     
     Change in Basis of Presentation  

The Company is in a commercial dispute with Mtatsminda, the
Company s 15% minority partner in its Ayety business
venture.

On June 2, 2004, Mtatsminda sent a letter to the Company in
which it addressed four issues. First, Mtatsminda requested that
the Company cause Ayety to renegotiate the terms pursuant to
which Ayety is using 11 broadcast frequencies, which belong
to Mtatsminda. Second, Mtatsminda alleges that the Company has
an obligation to pay property taxes on the buildings owned by an
affiliate of the Company in Tbilisi and that the Company has
failed to meet this obligation. Third, Mtatsminda disputes the
validity of loans made by the Company to Ayety. Fourth,
Mtatsminda alleges that the Company may have violated laws
against bribery of foreign officials and possibly engaged in
other improper or illegal conduct. These issues were again
raised by Mtatsminda in several other letters to the Company.

F-79

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

With respect to the broadcast frequencies, Ayety has been using
the 11 frequencies under an agreement with Mtatsminda, which
recently expired. Ayety is intending to enter into negotiations
with Mtatsminda to secure continued long-term use of these
frequencies. The Company believes that the risk of Mtatsminda
withdrawing the right to use its frequencies is remote. With
respect to the property tax issue, the Company has investigated
this allegation with advice from outside legal counsel and it
believes that the risk of a tax assessment is remote.
Furthermore, if the tax authorities were to aggressively
interpret this law, the tax exposure would be negligible.
Further, the Company believes that the allegations related to
the loans made to Ayety are unfounded and intends to vigorously
defend itself on this issue.

The Company believes that the fourth allegation is substantially
similar to those raised previously by certain Georgian
individuals and described in Note 14,  Commitments and
Contingencies   Contingencies   Georgian
Matters.  The Company s Board of Directors authorized
the Company s outside counsel to conduct an independent
inquiry into the allegations of possible improper or illegal
conduct made by the Georgian individuals. The investigation has
been completed and the results have been reported by the
Company s outside counsel to the Board of Directors of the
Company. The investigation did not uncover any specific factual
support for the allegations regarding violations of laws against
bribery of foreign officials, including the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, or other alleged improper or illegal conduct. The
Audit Committee of the Company s Board of Directors has
reviewed all letters sent by Mtatsminda and believes that the
allegations made with respect to violations of laws and other
improper or illegal conduct are substantially similar to those
previously investigated by the Company s outside counsel.
For this reason, the Audit Committee has determined not to
re-open the investigation.

At the request of the Company, Mtatsminda agreed to participate
in a meeting of Ayety shareholders on June 28, 2004. At
that meeting, the Company s intent was to address matters
raised in Mtatsminda s letter to the Company dated
June 2, 2004 and to also address matters relative to the
poor financial performance of Ayety, including the
Company s decision to remove and appoint a new General
Director of the business. However, at such meeting, Mtatsminda
notified the Company that in March 2003, a new charter of Ayety
was prepared and  allegedly  registered with the Georgian
courts (such courts are responsible for company registration in
Georgia) (the  New Charter ). Mtatsminda represented
that, pursuant to the terms of the New Charter, unanimous
shareholder approval is required for certain key decisions,
including the removal and appointment of a new General Director.
Prior to the New Charter, a 75% vote was required for such
decisions. Further, at the meeting, Mtatsminda informed the
Company that it would not vote in favor of the Company s
proposal regarding the removal of Ayety s General Director.
The Company believes that the New Charter should not be
recognized as an enforceable legal arrangement since the process
by which the New Charter was prepared and filed in the Georgian
courts was carried out in a manner that was not in compliance
with applicable Georgian law. However, since the New Charter has
already been filed and accepted by the Georgian courts, the New
Charter is valid unless and until successfully challenged. In
December 2004, the Company filed a complaint in the Mtatsminda
District Court in Tbilisi, Georgia against Mtatsminda to have
the New Charter declared invalid. A hearing on the merits of
this case was held on April 25, 2006, and the court ruled
in favor of Mtatsminda. The Company plans to appeal this ruling.

Mtatsminda did not present a registered copy of the New Charter
at the June 28, 2004 meeting of Ayety shareholders nor
subsequent to such meeting. However, the Company obtained a copy
of the New Charter by photocopying the document that was filed
with the Georgian Courts. Nonetheless, the Company s
representatives concluded from that meeting that Mtatsminda had
secured practical control over Ayety; both by virtue of its
claims with respect to the New Charter and through its direct
associations with the General Director of Ayety. The Company is
pursuing legal remedies with respect to the New Charter and
continues to seek removal of Ayety s General Director.

As the Company is the primary beneficiary of Ayety, the Company
is required, pursuant to FIN No. 46R to consolidate
Ayety as a variable interest entity, effective March 31,
2004. However, the Company has been

F-80

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

unable to prepare U.S. GAAP financial statements of Ayety
subsequent to June 30, 2004 to include within its
consolidated financial statements, due to:

The Company no longer has access to the statutory accounting
    records of Ayety which is a prerequisite to the completion of
    the U.S. GAAP financial results; and 

The Company no longer has favorable relations with management of
    Ayety, since the Company attempted to terminate the General
    Director of Ayety in late June 2004. Accordingly, even if the
    Company had access to the statutory accounting records of Ayety,
    the Company would not be able to obtain certainty that all
    economic activities of the business had been properly considered
    for U.S. GAAP accounting treatment. 

Accordingly, as allowed under FIN No. 46R for all periods
subsequent to June 30, 2004 the Company no longer
consolidates Ayety, until such time that the Company s
operational oversight and oversight issues surrounding its
investment in Ayety have been resolved. The Company s
U.S. GAAP carrying balance in Ayety was zero as of
June 30, 2004.

As discussed in Note 14,  Commitments and
Contingencies   Contingencies   Mtatsminda
Litigation , on June 25, 2004, Mtatsminda filed a
claim against International Telcell SPS, a subsidiary of the
Company, Ayety and Zurab Chigogidze, the General Director of
Ayety, in the Mtatsminda District Court in Tbilisi, Georgia for
damages because Ayety had used its cash resources to make
payments to International Telcell SPS in repayment of a credit
facility between Ayety and International Telcell SPS. Mtatsminda
also claims that Ayety has not authorized the credit facility
and that Ayety s funds should have been used to make
dividend payments to Mtatsminda. The Company disputes these
claims and has filed a counter-suit in the Georgian courts
stating that all of Mtatsminda s claims are groundless,
that Mtatsminda did not have standing in the case due to
expiration of the statute of limitations, non-payment of court
duty and other procedural matters. The hearing of this case has
been postponed on several occasions due to the failure of
Mtatsminda s representatives to attend the hearing. In
order for the case to proceed to trial or be formally withdrawn
requires an action by Mtatsminda, which to date, neither have
occurred. Based on the information available and due to the
relatively low amounts of damages claimed, the Company believes
that these matters will not result in any material adverse
effect on the Company s business, financial condition or
results of operations.

F-81

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

18.  
     
     Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)  

Selected financial information for the quarterly periods in 2004
and 2003 is presented below (in thousands, except per share
amounts):

F-82

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(a) 

Loss from continuing operations has been adjusted to reflect the
    dividend requirements on the Company s Preferred Stock. 

(b) 

The Company recognized gains on the dispositions of various
    business ventures totaling $5.7 million, $0.3 million
    and $0.1 million in the first, second and third quarters of
    2004, respectively. 

(c) 

As discussed in Note 4,  Accounting
    Changes   Elimination of the Three-Month Lag Reporting
    Policy , the Company changed its policy regarding the
    accounting for certain business ventures previously reported on
    a lag basis. As a result of the change, the Company recorded a
    cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of
    $2.0 million as of January 1, 2003. 

(d) 

The Company recognized gains on the dispositions of various
    business ventures totaling $10.0 million and
    $12.4 million in the second and third quarters of 2003,
    respectively. In addition, the Company recorded a gain of
    $24.1 million related to the early retirement of debt in
    the second quarter of 2003. 

(e) 

The Company adjusted the carrying value of goodwill and other
    intangibles, fixed assets and investments in and advances to
    business ventures. The total non-cash charges and write-downs
    were $1.0 million and $0.7 million in the third and
    fourth quarters of 2003. 

(f) 

The sum of the income (loss) per share for the four quarters may
    not equal income (loss) per share for the full year due to
    rounding. 

F-83

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The effects of the adjustments for the accounting errors more
fully described in Note 2, Restatement of Prior Financial
Information on the Company s Condensed Consolidated
Quarterly Statements of Operations are summarized in the
following financial results tables (in 000 s, except per
share amounts):

F-84

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

F-85

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

F-86

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

F-87

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

F-88

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

F-89

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

F-90

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Notes to quarterly financial results tables :  

(1) The adjustments included in the consolidation
corrections reflect the effects of correcting for the erroneous
consolidation of certain legal entities (principally Telcell).

(2) As previously discussed, the following adjustments
reflect the effects of correcting the accounting errors that had
been made in the Company s financial statements for the
quarterly periods ended March 31, 2003 through
September 30, 2004:

F-91

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

h. The Company failed to accrue interest income on a
    deposit placed with a professional service provider. The
    correction of such errors resulted in the Company recognizing an
    additional $5,000 and $4,000  interest income  for the
    three month periods ended March 31, 2003 and 2004
    respectively;  

i. As a result of adjustments recognized at legal
    entities in which the Company accounted for such business on the
    equity method of accounting, upon disposition of the relevant
    legal entities, the Company recognized an increase in  gain
    on disposition of equity investee business ventures  of
    $580,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2003;  

j. As a result of adjustments recognized at entities in
    which the Company had a minority shareholder, the Company
    recognized a decrease in  minority expense  of $34,000
    for the three month period ended March 31, 2003 and increases in
     minority expense  of $33,000; $3,000 and $10,000 for
    the three month periods ended March 31, 2004, June 30
    2004 and September 30, 2004, respectively;  

k. As a result of net pre-tax adjustments recognized,
    the Company recognized a decrease in  income tax
    expense  of $89,000; $4,000 and $15,000 for the three month
    periods ended March 31, 2003, June 30, 2004, and
    September 30, 2004, respectively and an increase of
     income tax expense  of $100,000 for the three month
    period ended March 31, 2004. Furthermore, the Company
    recognized an increase in its accrual for franchise taxes, which
    resulted in an increase in  income tax expense  of
    $583,000 for the three month period ended March 31,
    2004;  

l. The Company failed to recognize certain expenses and
    translated certain expenses improperly when translating from
    their functional currency into the U.S. dollar reporting
    currency for certain discontinued business components. In
    addition, as previously noted, the company failed to cease
    recognition of depreciation expense for certain of these
    businesses upon their classification as a discontinued business
    component. The correction of such adjustments resulted in a
    decrease in the  loss from discontinued components  of
    $80,000 and $69,000 for the three month period ended
    March 31, 2003 and September 30, 2003, respectively,
    an increase in  income from discontinued components 
    of $509,000 and $1,302,000 and $163,000 for the three months
    ended June 30, 2003 and December 31, 2003, and
    March 31, 2004, respectively and a decrease in  income
    from discontinued components  of $11,000 and $1,287,000 for
    the three month period ended June 30, 2004 and
    September 30, 2004, respectively;  

m. Due to adjustments recognized at business ventures
    previously recognized on a three-month reporting lag, the
    Company recognized an increase of $11,000 in the
     cumulative effect of a change in accounting
    principle  for the three month period ended March 31,
    2003; and  

n. The Company has reclassified certain items to be
    consistent with current period presentation. Such
    reclassifications resulted in a decrease of $91,000 in
     selling general and administrative expenses , a
    decrease of $99,000 in  other non-operating expenses 
    and a $190,000 increase in  income tax expense  for
    the three month period ended December 31, 2003 and an
    increase of $7,000 to  cost of services  and a
    decrease of $7,000 in  selling, general and
    administrative  expenses for the three months ended March
    31, 2003.  

(3) As reported within the Company s Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2003, which excludes certain
reclassifications as noted in item (4) below. The
equivalent reclassifications are included in  Other
Accounting Adjustments  for the three months ended
December 31, 2003. Thus, the sum of individual line items
for the four quarterly periods of 2003 do not total to the
adjustments to the annual results for the year ended
December 31, 2003.

(4) As reported in the Company s Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  for the
periods ended March 31, June 30, and
September 30, 2004, which include certain reclassifications
of 2003 quarterly information to be consistent with the
presentation of 2004 quarterly information.

F-92

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Disposition of PeterStar   

As previously discussed in Note 1,  Basis of
Presentation and Description of Business, Recent Developments
and Liquidity   Recent Developments and
Liquidity   PeterStar Sale Transaction , on
August 1, 2005 the Company consummated the sale of its 71%
ownership interest in PeterStar, pursuant to a definitive
agreement that was executed on February 17, 2005, for cash
consideration of $215.0 million. The February 17, 2005
definitive agreement was between the Company and First National,
Emergent and Pisces.

The Company anticipates that it will recognize a gain of
approximately $113.7 million, before transactional costs,
on the disposal of the PeterStar Group in the third quarter of
2005, since its U.S. GAAP carrying balance in PeterStar at
the date of sale was $101.3 million. The Company presently
anticipates that it will be able to utilize its tax attributes
(capital loss carryforwards and net operating loss
carryforwards) to offset any federal or state tax gain that
would be recognized on the sale.

As the Company has not met the requirements of Paragraph 30
of SFAS No. 144, the Company has not treated the
PeterStar Group as held for sale as of December 31, 2004
and instead continued to present the PeterStar Group s
results of operations as continuing operations in the
Company s consolidated statements of operations for all
years presented herein. However, effective in the first quarter
of 2005 the PeterStar Group met the criteria of
SFAS No. 144 for classification as a discontinued
component, as a result, beginning with the Company s
quarterly report on
Form  10-Q  for the
period ended March 31, 2005, the PeterStar Group will be so
accounted for within the Company s financial statements as
of that date and prospectively through the date of disposition.

Summary results of operations for the PeterStar Group (inclusive
of minority interest of the PeterStar Group and amortization of
license as part of the Company s investment in the
PeterStar Group) for the years ended December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002, were as follows:

F-93

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The condensed assets and liabilities of the PeterStar Group as
of December 31, 2004 and 2003, were as follows:

Redemption of Senior Notes   

As previously discussed in Note 1,  Basis of
Presentation and Description of Business, Recent Developments
and Liquidity   Recent Developments and
Liquidity   Redemption of Company s Senior
Notes , on August 8, 2005, using a portion of the cash
proceeds from the aforementioned PeterStar Sale, the Company
completed the redemption of its outstanding $152.0 million
Senior Notes. The aggregate redemption price of the Senior
Notes, including accrued and unpaid interest, was
$157.7 million.

Early Termination of Defined Benefit Pension Plan   

On March 14, 2006, the Company funded approximately
$5.4 million to the Pension Plan to ensure that the value
of the Pension Plan assets was sufficient to cover all benefit
liabilities since the Pension Plan made a final distribution to
the Pension Plan participants on March 22, 2006. As
previously discussed, the final distribution to the Pension Plan
participants resulted from the Company s initiative to
terminate the Pension Plan.

Acquisition of Additional Interests in Magticom   

As previously discussed in Note 1,  Basis of
Presentation and Description of Business, Recent Developments
and Liquidity   Recent Developments and
Liquidity   Magticom Ownership Activity , the
Company executed a series of transactions in February 2005 that
enabled the Company to obtain the largest economic interest in
and exert operational oversight over Magticom. Additionally, in
September 2005, the Company participated in a transaction that
enabled the Company to obtain a 50.1% economic interest in
Magticom, again the largest economic interest, and the Company,
as a part of that transaction, paid off all its third party debt.

The partnership agreement for International TC LLC, between
Dr. Jokhtaberidze and the Company, provides the Company
operational oversight of International TC LLC and its
subsidiaries, including Magticom, subject to certain minority
partner participatory rights. The Company has determined that
its ownership interest in Magticom (through its holding company
structure), as a result of the ownership restructurings that
occurred in February 2005 and September 2005, should still be
accounted for following the equity method of accounting.
Furthermore, the Company intends to use the assets of Magticom
in the manner in which they were previously used, and the
Company will account for the acquisition of the additional 15.6%
ownership interest in accordance with SFAS No. 141,
 Business Combinations. 

F-94

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Acquisition of Additional Interests in Telecom
    Georgia   

As previously discussed in Note 1,  Basis of
Presentation and Description of Business, Recent Developments
and Liquidity   Recent Developments and
Liquidity   Telecom Georgia Ownership
Activity   February 2005 , on February 11,
2005, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company paid
$5.0 million to purchase an additional 51% ownership
interest in Telecom Georgia, a Georgian long-distance transit
operator, from the Georgian government, bringing the
Company s total ownership interest in Telecom Georgia to
81%.

The additional 51% acquired interest in Telecom Georgia resulted
in the Company increasing its ownership to 81%, gaining the
ability to exert operational oversight over Telecom Georgia.
Furthermore, on May 23, 2005, the charter of Telecom
Georgia that was in effect for the past several years was
amended, as a result, certain substantive participatory rights
that were afforded to the minority shareholder were eliminated,
which allowed the Company to follow the consolidation method of
accounting. The Company intends to use the assets of Telecom
Georgia in the manner in which they were previously used, and
the Company will account for the acquisition of the additional
51% ownership interest in accordance with
SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations. 

In July 2006, the Company consummated a series of transactions
associated with its ownership interest in Telecom Georgia. In
summary, the Company acquired a controlling interest in Telenet,
a Georgian company providing internet access, data
communication, voice telephony and international access
services, from a third party in exchange for cash and a minority
interest shareholding in both Telenet and Telecom Georgia. In
addition, Dr. Jokhtaberidze, the Company s principal
partner in Magticom, acquired from the Company a minority
interest shareholding in the Company s ownership in these
two business ventures. As a result, the Company s interests
in Telenet and Telecom Georgia are held through U.S. based
holding companies in which the Company has the controlling
interest, thereby enabling the Company to exercise operational
oversight over and consolidate both Telenet and Telecom
Georgia,. Furthermore, the Company exited the transactions with
the largest economic interest of any of the shareholders in both
Telecom Georgia and Telenet, of approximately 21% and 26%,
respectively and completed these transactions with a net
corporate cash outlay of approximately $0.45 million.

Telenet provides high-speed data communication and internet
access services on both a wired and wireless basis, primarily to
commercial and institutional customers in Georgia. It also
operates international voice and data transit links between
Georgia and Russia. Immediately prior to the Company s
acquisition of Telenet, Telenet acquired from IberiaTel,
Georgia s only license to provide CDMA 450 MHz wireless
voice and data services and a CDMA 450 network deployed in
Georgia s capital city, Tbilisi. The target markets of
Telecom Georgia and Telenet are office and residential consumers
of fixed location telephony and data communication service; and
both companies have well-established Georgian brands in these
markets.

Telecom Georgia Ownership Activity   October
    2006  

On October 27, 2006, the Company, through International
Telcell LLC, an intermediary holding company in which the
Company has a 25.6% economic ownership interest, acquired the
19% ownership interest held by Bulcom in Telecom Georgia for
$0.7 million, thereby increasing the Company s
economic interest in Telecom Georgia to 25.6%. Furthermore, as a
part of that transaction, the Company paid a broker fee of
$0.1 million to a third party for their facilitation of the
transaction.

F-95

Table of Contents   

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Magticom Dividend Distribution   

On October 18, 2006, Magticom issued a $33.33 million dividend
to its shareholders of which $3.33 million was paid to the
Georgian government, representing the required 10% withholding
tax for dividend distributions to U.S. shareholders.
International TC LLC received the $30.0 million dividend
distribution and then repaid its loan obligations, principal and
interest, to a wholly-owned subsidiary of MIG and Dr.
Jokhtaberidze in the amount of $14.73 million and $14.67
million, respectively. The International TC LLC loan
obligations, to its then members, originated in September 2005
when it acquired Western Wireless  indirect 14.5% economic
interest in Magticom. Furthermore, International TC LLC
distributed the remaining $0.6 million to its members as a
dividend, of which a wholly-owned subsidiary of MIG received
$0.3 million.

Delisting of Common Stock   

On April 20, 2005, the OTCBB trading system appended the
Company s common stock trading symbol by adding an
 E  modifier, due to the Company s delinquency in
filing its Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. At the close of
business on May 23, 2005 the Company s common stock
was removed from quotation on the OTCBB because the Company was
not then in compliance with the NASD Rule 6530, due to the
Company s failure to file its Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 with the SEC. As a
result, the Company s common stock (OTCPK: MTRM) is now
quoted solely on the Pink Sheets.

Fuqua Industries, Inc. Shareholder Litigation   

As previously discussed in Note 14,  Commitments and
Contingent Liabilities   Litigation   Fuqua
Industries, Inc. Shareholder Litigation , in the fourth
quarter of 2004 the Company revised its estimated defendant
indemnification costs reserve by recording an increase to its
accrual of $3.0 million to reflect the estimated costs that
the Company will be obligated to remit to defendants legal
counsel. Accordingly, the Company recorded a $3.0 million
charge in the fourth quarter of 2004 as a component of its
 selling, general and administrative  expense line
item contained within its consolidated statements of operations.

Furthermore, as previously discussed, on April 6, 2006, the
Company received approximately $4.6 million from the
settlement of the Fuqua Industries, Inc. Shareholder Litigation
(the  Settlement ). The aggregate amount of the
Settlement was $7.0 million; however, approximately
$2.4 million was paid to plaintiff s legal counsel to
cover legal fees and expenses.

Global Settlement and Release Agreement with American
    Seating   

As previously discussed in Note 14,  Commitments and
Contingent Liabilities   Environmental Matters ,
on October 6, 2005, the Company entered into a Global
Settlement and Release Agreement (the  Settlement )
with American Seating Company ( Amseco ). As a result
of the Settlement, the Company received $1.0 million on
October 12, 2005, which represented a portion of monies due
to the Company pursuant to an asset purchase agreement between
the Company s predecessor and Amseco, dated July 1987.
Furthermore, as a result of the Company s agreement to
accept a reduction of amounts due under the asset purchase
agreement, Amseco released the Company from its obligation to
indemnify Amseco for certain environmental liabilities. The
Company, as a matter of law, could still be held accountable for
this former subsidiary s environmental legal obligation
should the buyer fail to meet future actionable environmental
legal obligations. Such Settlement will result in the Company
recognizing other non-operating income of $1.3 million in
the fourth quarter of 2005, which also includes the release of
the Company s litigation reserve since the Company was
released from the aforementioned agreement to indemnify Amseco
under the respective environmental matters.

F-96

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Magticom Limited:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Magticom
Limited (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2004
and 2003 and the related statements of income,
stockholders  equity and comprehensive income and cash
flows for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
September 30, 2002 and the three-month period ended
December 31, 2002. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of Magticom Limited as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 and
the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and September 30, 2002
and the three month period ended December 31, 2002, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.

As discussed in Note 2, the accompanying financial
statements as of December 31, 2003 and for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and September 30, 2002 and the
three-month period ended December 31, 2002 have been
restated.

/s/     KPMG LIMITED 

KPMG Limited

Moscow, Russian Federation

December 14, 2006

F-97

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

F-98

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

BALANCE SHEETS 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

F-99

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

F-100

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE
(LOSS) INCOME 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

F-101

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1.  
     
     Basis of Presentation and Description of Business  

Magticom Limited (the  Company ) owns and operates a
Global System for Mobile ( GSM ) telephone network in
the country of Georgia, a member of the Commonwealth of
Independent States ( CIS ). The Company sells GSM
services to individuals and businesses in Georgia. The Company
launched commercial service on September 22, 1997.

The Company was formed on February 12, 1996 as a limited
liability company. The shareholders of the Company are generally
liable only to the extent of their contributions to the Company.
As of December 31, 2004, the Company s shareholders
were Dr. George Jokhtaberidze, a Georgian citizen, who
owned 51% and Telcell Wireless, a company incorporated in the
United States ( Telcell Wireless ), which owned a 49%
interest. According to the terms of the charter of the Company,
Telcell Wireless has certain substantive participating rights as
certain issues effectively require unanimous approval of the
shareholders of the Company, since such issues must be approved
by sixty-six percent (66%) of the outstanding shares. Such
issues include but are not limited to the appointment, dismissal
and compensation of the General Director of the Company, the
approval of the annual business plan of the Company, declaration
and distribution of dividends of the Company, etc. Metromedia
International Group, Inc. ( MIG ) indirectly owned
70.41% of Telcell Wireless with the remaining 29.59% ownership
interest being indirectly owned by Western Wireless
International ( Western Wireless ).

The accompanying financial statements have been prepared from
the Georgian accounting records for presentation in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America ( U.S. GAAP ). The accompanying
financial statements differ from the financial statements issued
for statutory purposes in Georgia in that they reflect certain
adjustments, not recorded in the Company s books, which are
appropriate to present the financial position, results of
operations and cash flows in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the financial
statements for prior periods to conform to current year
presentation.

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company changed its fiscal
year end from September 30 to December 31. This
resulted in a three-month transition period commencing
October 1, 2002 and ending December 31, 2002.
Accordingly, the Company has included unaudited information for
the  three-month  period
ended December 31, 2003 in the accompanying financial
statements and notes thereof for comparative purposes.

As discussed in further detail in Note 2,  Restatement
of Prior Financial Information , in June 2005, the Company
determined that it would restate certain prior financial
information to reflect correction of past accounting errors.

As discussed in further detail in Note 12,  Subsequent
Events   Ownership Restructuring , in February
2005 and September 2005, MIG and Dr. George Jokhtaberidze
executed a series of transactions that resulted in International
Telcell Cellular LLC ( International TC LLC ) owning
100% of the Company. As of June 1, 2006, International TC
LLC is 50.1% owned indirectly by MIG, 46.9% by Dr. George
Jokhtaberidze and 3% by Gemstone Management Ltd. Through its
ownership interests in International TC LLC, MIG now holds 50.1%
of the total ownership interest in the Company and is the
largest effective owner of the Company and has the ability to
exert operational oversight over the Company.

Business and Economic Environment   

The environment for business in Georgia has changed rapidly over
the last decade from a system where central planning and
direction dominated to one in which market forces increasingly
operate. As a result of the speed and continuation of this
complex change, the legal and regulatory framework in place in
more mature market economies for the protection and regulation
of companies and investors is still developing. Georgia has been
experiencing political change and macro-economic instability.
These factors have affected and may continue to affect the
activities of enterprises doing business in this environment.
Operating in Georgia

F-102

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

involves risks, which do not typically exist in more mature and
developed market economies (See Note 11,  Commitments
and Contingencies   Contingencies  for additional
discussion).

The accompanying financial statements reflect management s
assessment of the impact of these factors on the operations and
the financial position of the Company. The impact on the Company
of the current and future business environments may differ from
management s assessment and such differences may be
significant.

2.  
     
     Restatement of Prior Financial Information  

The Company evaluated its prior financial results and determined
that the following accounting errors had been made in its past
financial statements:

1. The Company maintained a detailed fixed asset ledger for
    statutory reporting purposes in the Country of Georgia. However,
    until the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company did not maintain a
    detailed fixed asset ledger for U.S. GAAP reporting
    purposes, instead relying upon the statutory fixed asset ledger
    and applying average or period end exchange rates for
    translation of such amounts into the reporting currency. Upon
    completion of the detailed fixed assets ledger for
    U.S. GAAP reporting purposes, it was determined that the
    Company recognized excess depreciation for prior periods.
    Accordingly, the Company has recognized an increase of $503,000
    to the   retained earnings   as of
    October 1, 2001 and a corresponding decrease in
      accumulated depreciation   as of that date. In
    addition, the Company has reduced its
      depreciation   expense by $623,000; $111,000;
    $78,000; and $411,000 for the year ended September 30,
    2002, three months ended December 31, 2002, three months
    ended December 31, 2003, and the year ended
    December 31, 2003, respectively; 

2. The Company has determined that the accounting for its
    deferral of activation fees was applied erroneously.
    Accordingly, the Company has recognized a decrease of $393,000
    to   retained earnings   as of October 1,
    2001 and a corresponding increase in   current deferred
    revenues   as of that date. In addition, the Company has
    recognized an increase in   subscriber revenues  
    of $178,000; a decrease of $78,000, a decrease of $56,000 and a
    decrease of $56,000 for the year ended September 30, 2002,
    three months ended December 31, 2002, three months ended
    December 31, 2003 and the year ended December 31,
    2003, respectively. The Company recognized a corresponding
    adjustment to its   current deferred revenues  
    for each affected period; 

3. The Company has determined that the expiration of
    certain deferred revenues for prepaid calling cards was not
    recognized in the appropriate accounting periods. The correction
    of such adjustment resulted in an increase in
      subscriber revenues   of $106,000 for the three
    months ended December 31, 2003 and the year ended
    December 31, 2003. The Company recognized a corresponding
    decrease to its   current deferred revenues   as
    of December 31, 2003; 

4. The Company has identified certain revenue items that
    should have been recognized in an accounting period that were
    identified subsequent to the inclusion of the respective
    financial statements in filings with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission ( SEC ). Such amounts resulted in the
    Company recognizing an increase in   roaming and other
    revenues   of $102,000 for the three months ended
    December 31, 2003 and the year ended December 31,
    2003. The Company recognized a corresponding increase to its
      accounts receivable   as of December 31,
    2003; 

5. The Company has determined that certain promotions
    granted to its customers for marketing purposes did not meet the
    criteria for revenue recognition. Accordingly, the Company
    reduced its   roaming and other revenues   and
      selling, general and administrative   expenses
    by $221,000 for the three months ended December 31, 2003
    and the year ended December 31, 2003; 

F-103

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

6. The Company has identified certain cost of service items
    that should have been recognized in an accounting period that
    were identified subsequent to the inclusion of the respective
    financial statements in filings with the SEC. Such amounts
    resulted in the Company recognizing an increase in   cost
    of services   expenses of $95,000 for the three months
    ended December 31, 2003 and the year ended
    December 31, 2003. The Company recognized a corresponding
    increase to its   accounts payable   as of
    December 31, 2003; 

7. The Company has identified that certain inventory costs
    included in the cost of services should have been recognized in
    a subsequent accounting period that were identified subsequent
    to the inclusion of the respective financial statements in
    filings with the SEC. Such amounts resulted in the Company
    recognizing a decrease in   cost of services  
    expenses of $124,000 for the three months ended
    December 31, 2003 and the year ended December 31,
    2003. The Company recognized a corresponding increase in its
      inventory   as of December 31, 2003; 

8. The Company has identified certain selling, general and
    administrative items that should have been recognized in an
    accounting period that were identified subsequent to the
    inclusion of the respective financial statements in filings with
    the SEC. Such amounts resulted in the Company recognizing an
    increase in   selling, general and
    administrative   expenses of $110,000 and a reduction of
    $25,000 for the three months ended December 31, 2003 and
    the year ended December 31, 2003, respectively. The Company
    correspondingly increased its   accrued
    liabilities   by $154,000 and   property and
    equipment   by $179,000 as of December 31, 2003; 

9. The Company failed to accrue interest income of $155,000
    earned on its invested funds for the three months and the year
    ended December 31, 2003. Such amount resulted in the
    Company recognizing an increase in   interest 
     income of $155,000 for the three months and the year ended
    December 31, 2003. The Company recognized a corresponding
    increase to its   other current assets   as of
    December 31, 2003; 

10. Upon filing the Company s final tax return for the
    year ended December 31, 2003, the Company identified
    certain items that resulted in an increase to income tax expense
    of $507,000 for the three months and year ended
    December 31, 2003. In addition, the Company has decreased
    its   tax expense   for the three months and year
    ended December 31, 2003 by $70,000, which represents the
    tax affect of the items identified above. The Company recognized
    a corresponding increase to its   income taxes
    payable   of $437,000 as of December 31,
    2003; and 

11. The Company has reclassified certain items to be
    consistent with current period presentation and recognized the
    foreign currency translation adjustments of the above items.
    Such reclassifications resulted in an increase of $152,000 to
      accounts receivable, net  , an increase of
    $174,000 to   prepaid expenses and other current
    assets  , an increase of $5,287,000 to   property
    and equipment, net  , a decrease of $4,210,000 to
      other non-current assets  , an increase of
    $708,000 to   accounts payable  , a decrease of
    $70,000 to   customer deposits and deferred
    revenues  , a decrease of $346,000 to   accrued
    and other current liabilities  , an increase of $416,000
    to   deferred revenues, less current portion 
     and a decrease of $695,000 to   accumulated other
    comprehensive loss  as of December 31, 2003. 

Furthermore, the Company classified items in the Statements of
    Income to be consistent with current presentation.  Service
    revenues  and  interconnect and other revenues  as
    described in previous SEC filings have been presented as
     subscriber revenues  and  inbound revenues, 
    respectively. Additionally,  roaming and other revenues, 
    which were previously included in subscriber revenues, have been
    separately disclosed resulting in a decrease in
      subscriber   revenues of $1,295,000; $374,000;
    $724,000; and $2,807,000 for the year ended September 30,
    2002, three months ended December 31, 2002, three months
    and year ended December 31, 2003, respectively. Additional
    reclassifications resulted in an increase of $239,000 to
      cost of services   and a corresponding decrease
    in  selling, general and administrative 
     expenses for the three months and year ended
    December 31, 2003; and a decrease of 

F-104

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

$750,000 to   selling, general and administrative 
     expenses and a corresponding increase in   asset
    impairment charge   expense for the year ended
    September 30, 2002. 

The effect of the adjustments for income statement purposes are
summarized in the following tables (in thousands of US dollars):

F-105

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

F-106

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The effect of the adjustments for balance sheet purposes are
summarized in the following table (in thousands of US dollars):

F-107

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The effect of the adjustments for cash flow purposes are
summarized in the following tables (in thousands of US dollars):

F-108

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The adjustments previously discussed also resulted in
reclassifications of cash used within operating activities for
the respective periods, except for capitalization of certain
fixed assets during the three months and year ended
December 31, 2003, which resulted in an increase to
  cash provided by operating activities   and
  cash used in investing activities  . In
addition, the Company has separately disclosed deferred income
tax benefit, which was previously included in other items not
requiring cash outlays, for the three months ended
December 31, 2002.

F-109

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

3.  
     
     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

Cash and Cash Equivalents   

The Company considers all highly liquid investments with
original maturities of three months or less to be cash
equivalents. Cash equivalents are carried at cost.

Inventory   

Inventory consists of Subscriber-Identity-Module
( SIM ) cards and pre-paid scratch cards. Cost is
determined using the average cost method.

Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles Other Than
    Goodwill   

Property and equipment is stated at historical cost, less
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Construction
costs, labor, and overhead incurred in the development of the
Company s wireless network are capitalized. Assets not yet
in use, which principally consists of redundant network
components and spare parts, are not depreciated until placed
into service; however, the Company periodically evaluates the
carrying value of these assets to ensure that they are not
impaired. The cost of maintenance and repairs of property,
plant, and equipment is charged to operating expense in the
period incurred. The cost and related accumulated depreciation
and amortization of property and equipment sold or retired
(other than telecommunications equipment) are removed from the
accounts and the resulting gains or losses are included in
current operations.

With respect to telecommunications equipment, the Company has
followed the composite group depreciation methodology. As a
result, the Company s telecommunications equipment has been
depreciated using an estimated composite life of seven years
through December 31, 2004.

With respect to leasehold improvements, amortization is on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the
related assets or over the primary term of the lease, whichever
is less, which ranges from 3 to 10 years. Depreciation is
provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life
of the related assets as follows:

Asset  
       
      Estimated Useful Life    

Telecommunications equipment

7 years 

Buildings

10 years 

Office equipment, furniture and software

3-5 years 

Vehicles

5 years 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets   

Long-lived assets are reviewed by the Company for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
comparison of the carrying amount to undiscounted future net
cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets
are considered to be impaired, the impairment recognized is
measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the
assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be
disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or
fair value less costs to sell.

Revenue Recognition   

The Company earns revenues for usage of its cellular system to
provide mobile telephony, roaming, interconnect and related
information services. Such revenue is recognized as the services
are rendered, based upon minutes of use processed and contracted
fees, and is net of credits and adjustments for service
discounts and value-added taxes. Amounts collected in advance of
the service period, primarily related to prepaid and

F-110

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

pay-in -advance
customers, are recorded as unearned revenue and are recognized
when earned. Interconnect revenues are earned from other
telecommunications operators for traffic terminated on
Magticom s network under agreements which also regulate the
Company s use of the other operators  networks.
Revenues are stated net of value-added taxes charged to
customers. In addition, revenues are stated net of discounts to
dealers that are recognized upon the sale of SIM and Mono Cards.

Customer activation fees, along with the related costs up to but
not exceeding these fees, are deferred and amortized into
revenue over the estimated customer relationship period, which
is currently estimated to be 30 months. Effective
July 1, 2003, the Company adopted Emerging Issues Task
Force ( EITF
No.  00-21 ), 
  Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple
Deliverables  , and is applying it on a prospective
basis. This consensus requires that revenue arrangements with
multiple deliverables be divided into separate units of
accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet specific
criteria. In addition, arrangement consideration must be
allocated among the separate units of accounting based on their
relative fair values, with certain limitations. In certain
cases, the sale of wireless service with an SIM Card constitutes
a revenue arrangement with multiple deliverables. The
Company s initial adoption of this consensus did not have a
material impact on its results of operations, financial
position, or cash flows.

Nonmonetary Transactions   

The Company had historically interconnected with a competing
mobile telephone provider in Georgia (the
 Competitor ) pursuant to an arrangement by which
Magticom and the Competitor each terminated traffic originating
on the other s network without explicit charges. Revenues
and costs were not reflected in the financial statements of the
Company for this exchange of traffic with the Competitor. The
Company and the Competitor adopted this historical arrangement
in view of the roughly balanced levels of originating and
terminating traffic exchanged between them. The arrangement was
not accounted for within the Company s financial statements
as the fair value of the Company s and the
Competitor s capacity was not readily determinable within a
reasonable limit.

In October 2003, the Company and the Competitor adopted a
refinement to their historical interconnection arrangement; such
that either party was entitled to a payment only if its net
traffic volume (incoming less outgoing) exceeded a certain
threshold level. Under this arrangement, the Company would
recognize only the incremental revenue or cost connected with
net traffic volumes in excess of the threshold level. Through
September 30, 2004, net traffic thresholds were never
exceeded. Consequently, no payments were exchanged between the
parties and the Company did not recognize any revenue or cost
for U.S. GAAP purposes pursuant to the October 2003
arrangement. The 2003 interconnect arrangement expired on
September 30, 2004.

Effective October 1, 2004, the Company and the Competitor
entered into a new contractual arrangement that provided for the
billing on a monthly basis, invoices between the two parties for
the termination of traffic on each others networks and using the
Georgian Government s regulatory approved tariff rates for
interconnect traffic termination. Therefore, beginning with the
Company s fourth quarter 2004 financial statements, the
Company has recognized revenue for termination of the
Competitor s traffic and cost of sales for the
Competitor s termination of the Company s traffic.
This contractual arrangement expired on September 30, 2005
and was renewed for an additional one-year term.

Advertising and Marketing   

The Company expenses the cost of advertising and marketing as
incurred. Advertising expense for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003 and September 30, 2002 and
the three-month periods ended December 31, 2003 and 2002
was $1,340,000, $1,229,000; $718,000; $403,000 and $145,000,
respectively.

F-111

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Income Taxes   

The Company accounts for deferred income taxes using the asset
and liability method of accounting. Under this method, deferred
tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences attributable to temporary differences between the
financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and
liabilities and their respective tax bases. Valuation allowances
are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to
the amount expected to be realized. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using rates expected to be in effect
when those assets and liabilities are recovered or settled. The
effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax
rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.

Foreign Currency Translation   

The currency of Georgia is the Georgian Lari ( GEL ).
The GEL is not a convertible currency outside of Georgia and,
accordingly, any conversion of GEL amounts to U.S. Dollars
should not be construed as a representation that GEL amounts
could be in the future converted into U.S. Dollars at the
exchange rate shown, or at any other exchange rate.

Until March 31, 2003, the Company s measurement
currency was the U.S. Dollar, because it reflected the
economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances of
the Company. On April 1, 2003, the Company determined that
the repayment of all loans, which were U.S. Dollar
denominated, required it to reevaluate its operations and, as a
result, it concluded that as of that date, the functional
currency should change from the U.S. Dollar to the GEL.
Consequently, at April 1, 2003, the historical bases of the
Company s non-monetary assets were translated to GEL using
the exchange rate in effect as of that date, except for the
historical base of the Company s non-monetary assets that
were acquired before January 1, 1999, which were set using
the exchange rate in effect as of January 1, 1999, because
as at that date the GEL ceased to be highly inflationary. The
translation of the non-monetary assets for the period from
January 1, 1999 to April 1, 2003 using the GEL as
functional currency resulted in a decrease in property, plant
and equipment of $2,461,000 and an addition of $850,000 to
deferred taxes resulting from the temporary differences between
the historical bases and the tax bases of the non-monetary
assets, which were recorded as a cumulative translation
adjustment in equity. The U.S. Dollar remains the
Company s reporting currency.

The Company s financial results for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003 were favorably affected by the
strengthening of the GEL, the Company s functional currency
from April 1, 2003, against the U.S. Dollar. The GEL
average exchange rate against the U.S. dollar for the year
ended December 31, 2004 increased by 11% compared to the
average exchange rate of the GEL against the U.S. Dollar
for the year ended December 31, 2003.

In accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 52,  Foreign Currency Translation ,
foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are
translated into the functional currency at the year-end exchange
rate as set by the Central Bank of Georgia.

Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates
effective on the date the assets were acquired or liabilities
incurred. Revenues and expenses have been translated at average
rates that materially reflect the rate in effect on the date of
the transaction. Exchange gains or losses arising from the
translation of foreign currency denominated assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses into the functional currency are included
in net income.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments   

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107
 Disclosure About Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
requires disclosure of fair value information about all
financial instruments held by a company except for certain
excluded instruments and instruments for which it is not
practical to estimate fair value. The

F-112

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

carrying value of the Company s financial instruments
approximates their respective fair value, because of the short
maturities of the instruments.

Use of Estimates and Judgments   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of the contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Estimates and judgments are used when
accounting for the allowance for doubtful accounts, long-lived
assets, recognition of revenue, depreciation and amortization,
income taxes and contingencies, among others.

The Company reviews all significant estimates affecting its
consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis and
records the effect of any necessary adjustment prior to their
publication. Uncertainties with respect to such estimates,
judgments and assumptions are inherent in the preparation of
financial statements; accordingly, it is possible that actual
results could differ from those estimates and judgments and
changes to estimates and judgments could occur in the near term.

New Accounting Pronouncements   

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46,
  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 ( FIN No, 46 )  and issued
FIN No. 46R in December 2003, which amended
FIN No. 46. Both FIN No. 46 and
FIN No. 46R requires certain variable interest
entities ( VIE ) to be consolidated in certain
circumstances by the primary beneficiary, even if it lacks a
controlling financial interest. The adoption of
FIN No. 46 and FIN No. 46R did not have a
material impact on the Company s operational results or
financial position, as Magticom does not have any VIEs.

In September 2004, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue
No. 04-10,   Determining Whether to Aggregate
Operating Segments That Do Not Meet the Quantitative Thresholds
 ( EITF No. 04-10 ) , that operating
segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds of
SFAS No. 131,   Disclosures about Segments of
an Enterprise and Related Information
 ( SFAS No. 131 )  can be aggregated
only if the segments have similar economic characteristics and
the segments share a majority of the aggregation criteria listed
in SFAS No. 131. The adoption of EITF No. 04-10
had no material effect on the Company s financial position,
result of operations, or disclosures as management has
determined that Magticom operates in one segment.

4.  
     
     Property and Equipment  

Property and equipment consists of the following (in thousands):

F-113

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

5.  
     
     Long-Term Debt  

In 1997, the Company entered into a $15,000,000 financing
agreement with a significant vendor. The $15,000,000 tranche of
the financing incurred interest at the London Inter-Bank
Overnight Borrowing Rate ( LIBOR ) plus 5%. In 1998,
the vendor extended an additional $10,000,000 in financing, for
a total credit line of $25,000,000. The $10,000,000 tranche of
the financing incurred interest at LIBOR plus 3.5%. Interest
payments were due semi-annually. Such balances were fully repaid
on July 2, 2002.

As a result of the financing, the Company incurred interest
expense of $151,000 during the year ended September 30,
2002. Interest expense related to this financing was nil for all
other periods presented.

6.  
     
     Loans Payable to Shareholder  

The Company had an agreement with a shareholder, Telcell
Wireless, to provide financing. The shareholder financing was
initially a $2,000,000 non-interest bearing loan, but was
expanded into two additional lines of credit of $6,000,000,
entered into in 1997, and $11,000,000, entered into in 1998
resulting in total available financing of $19,000,000. The
$6,000,000 line of credit incurred interest at LIBOR plus 5% and
the $11,000,000 line of credit incurred interest at LIBOR plus
3.5%. Such balances were fully repaid on February 21, 2003.

As a result of the shareholder loan agreements, interest expense
amounted to $258,000 for the year ended September 30, 2002.
Interest expense related to this financing was nil for all other
periods presented. In the three months ended December 31,
2002, Telcell Wireless agreed to forgive the interest payable on
the interest-bearing note, subject to all shareholder loans
being repaid by February 28, 2003. Accordingly, the Company
recognized $3,120,000 of forgiven interest, net of income taxes
of $674,000, as additional paid-in surplus in the three months
ended December 31, 2002.

7.  
     
     Common Stock  

At the date of inception, February 1996, the charter capital of
the Company was 2,500 GEL, which was the equivalent of $2,000.
The capital contributions from the original shareholders took
the form of both cash and property contributions. In August
1996, the date Telcell Wireless became a shareholder and
contributed $2,500,000 of cash, the shareholders of Magticom,
including Telcell Wireless, adopted a new charter pursuant to
which the charter fund of the Company increased to 6,300,000
GEL, which was the equivalent of $5,000,000. Such charter
capital is comprised of 1,000 participatory shares at a nominal
value of 6,300 GEL per share, or the equivalent of
$5,000 par value per share. As a result, the capital
contributions from shareholders is $3,064,000, represented by
both cash contributions and the fair market value of shareholder
contributed property.

A condition of the Telcell Wireless non-interest bearing loan
agreement required that the Company pay no dividends to partners
or shareholders in 1997 and thereafter, until the Company
fulfilled its obligations under the non-interest bearing loan
agreement. Such agreement was terminated on February 26,
2003, when the loan was repaid. As included in the final
settlement relative to the shareholder loan, the shareholder,
Telcell Wireless forgave interest due under the interest bearing
lines of credit totaling $3,120,000. Accordingly, the Company
recognized $3,120,000, net of income taxes of $674,000, as
additional paid-in surplus in the quarter ended
December 31, 2002.

On May 29, 2003, the Company declared dividends to its
shareholders totaling $2,830,000 ($2,830 per share). The
dividends were paid in June and July 2003.

On February 17, 2004, the Company declared dividends to its
shareholders totaling $23,333,000 ($23,333 per share) of
which, $7,778,000 was paid on February 27, 2004 and the
balance was paid on April 23, 2004.

F-114

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

On April 8, 2004, the Company declared dividends to its
shareholders totaling $15,555,000 ($15,555 per share) of
which, $15,349,000 was paid on September 28, 2004 and the
balance, $206,000 on October 1, 2004.

See Note 12,  Subsequent Events   Dividend
Distributions  for additional discussion of dividends
issued to shareholders subsequent to December 31, 2004.

8.  
     
     Income Tax  

For Georgian income tax purposes, the Company had an income tax
exemption until October 28, 2001, being one year after
declaring its first taxable profit. After that time, the Company
became subject to income tax at the full rate, as governed by
the January 29, 2001 amendment to the Georgian Tax Code.
All of the income tax expense is related to Georgian taxes on
profits recognized.

Income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following (in
thousands):

The net change in the total valuation allowance for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and September 30, 2002
and the three-month periods ended December 31, 2003 and
2002 are $(2,289,000); $(224,000); $425,000; $(11,000) and
$(68,000), respectively.

The Company determined in the fourth quarter of 2004 that future
taxable income will more likely than not be sufficient to
realize the deferred tax assets. Thus the valuation allowance
for such deferred tax assets was released in the fourth quarter
of 2004.

F-115

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The tax effects of temporary differences which give rise to
deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in
thousands):

The Company s provision for income taxes differs from the
provision that would have resulted from applying Georgian
statutory rates as follows (in thousands):

F-116

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

9.  
     
     Other Financial Statement Information  

Cash and Cash Equivalents   

The Company holds accounts with various banks, which are
denominated in GEL or other foreign currencies. Cash and cash
equivalents consisted of the following (in thousands):

The Company has on deposit the majority of its available cash
with two Georgian banks, of which one held $14,733,000 and the
other held $13,359,000 as of December 31, 2004.

Prepaid expenses and Other Current Assets   

Prepaid expenses and other current assets consisted of the
following (in thousands):

The Company utilizes the services of a third party to provide an
efficient method of settling mutual receivables and payables
arising from roaming activities with its roaming partners. In
connection with those services, the Company has two bank
accounts whose sole purpose is to account for these roaming
activities. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, these accounts
are classified as restricted cash.

Accrued and Other Current Liabilities   

Accrued liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands):

F-117

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Supplemental Cash Flow Information   

10.  
     
     Related Party Transactions  

NeoStudia is owned by an affiliate of Dr. George
Jokhtaberidze, a shareholder of the Company. For the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003 and September 30, 2002 and
the three-month periods ended December 31, 2003 and 2002,
the Company incurred $621,000; $881,000; $472,000; $226,000 and
$172,000, respectively, in relation to advertising work and
services from NeoStudia. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
the Company had reimbursed NeoStudia for all amounts incurred
during the respective periods.

MagtiWin is majority owned by certain employees of the Company.
MagtiWin and the Company are located in the same premises. For
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the
three-month period ended December 31, 2003, the Company
incurred and expensed or capitalized as part of construction
projects $823,000; $746,000 and $449,000, respectively, in
relation to remodeling costs of the Company s main offices
in Tbilisi and reimbursement for costs associated with the
construction of certain properties the Company agreed to provide
as compensation to certain employees. In addition to the amounts
incurred by MagtiWin on behalf of the Company during 2004, the
Company and MagtiWin entered into an exchange of office space
and warehouse space. The Company surrendered certain warehouse
space with a carrying value of $157,000 (which approximates its
fair value) and $41,000 cash and the Company obtained from
MagtiWin office space with a fair value of $198,000. The Company
believes that such transfers were on an arms length basis. As of
December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company has outstanding
payables owed to MagtiWin totaling $67,000 and $2,000,
respectively.

Telecom Georgia has an interconnect arrangement with the Company
whereby Telecom Georgia utilized the Company s network for
the termination of its customer traffic on the Company s
network and Telecom Georgia provided long distance, inter-CIS
and local interconnect telephone services to the Company. As of
December 31, 2004, Telecom Georgia was 30% owned by
International Telcell Inc., which was also an indirect majority
shareholder of Telcell Wireless. In February 2005, International
Telcell Inc. converted into a limited liability company, now
known as International Telcell LLC and increased its ownership
interest in Telecom Georgia to 81% by acquiring from the
Georgian government their 51% ownership interest in Telecom
Georgia. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and
September 30, 2002 and the three-month periods ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company recognized revenues
of $1,892,000; $3,282,000; $3,918,000; $709,000 and $845,000,
respectively, for the termination of Telecom Georgia traffic on
its network. In addition, for the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2003 and September 30, 2002 and the three-month
periods ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company
incurred interconnection expenses of $1,895,000; $1,927,000;
$1,441,000; $493,000 and $404,000, respectively, for the
termination of traffic on Telecom Georgia s network. As of
December 31, 2004, the Company has an outstanding
receivable from Telecom Georgia of $24,000. As of
December 31, 2003, the Company has an outstanding payable
to Telecom Georgia of $66,000.

F-118

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

11.  
     
     Commitments and Contingencies  

Commitments   

The Company has operating leases that are cancelable at the
Company s discretion with one-month notice, primarily for
the lease of land for base stations. For the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003 and September 30, 2002 and
the three-month periods ended December 31, 2003 and 2002,
rent expense for these leases totaled $466,000; $380,000;
$373,000; $99,000 and $78,000, respectively.

The Company has entered into a purchase commitment with a
supplier totaling 1.7 million Euros ($2.3 million) for
certain telecommunications equipment as of December 31,
2004, which was fulfilled subsequent to December 31, 2004.

Contingencies   

The ability of the Company to establish and maintain profitable
operations is subject to, among other things, significant
political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business
in the country of Georgia. These include matters arising out of
government policies, economic conditions, imposition of or
changes in government regulations or policies, imposition of or
changes to taxes or other similar charges by government bodies,
exchange rate fluctuations and controls, civil disturbances,
deprivation or unenforceability of contractual rights, and
taking of property without fair compensation.

In the fourth quarter of 2003, widespread discontent over prior
public elections in Georgia resulted in the premature
resignation of President Eduard Shevardnadze and the election of
Mikhail Saakashvili as the new president of Georgia. These
events had significantly increased the level of political
uncertainty in Georgia and significantly increased the
possibility of general economic distress, civil unrest,
terrorism and a collapse of consumer confidence in Georgia.
Present conditions in Georgia significantly increase the
possibility of general economic distress and a reduction in
consumer confidence in Georgia, each of which could have a
material adverse effect on the Company s operations.

The Company is dependent upon access to networks of local
operators or interconnect parties for a significant portion of
its telephony operations. There is no assurance that the Company
will continue to have access to these operators  networks
or that such access will be on favorable tariffs. In addition,
the Company is dependent upon its licenses. The failure of the
Company to obtain renewal of such licenses would have a material
adverse impact on the Company.

The Company is involved in other various legal and regulatory
proceedings. While the results of any litigation or regulatory
issue contain an element of uncertainty, management believes
that the outcome of any of these known, pending or threatened
legal proceedings will not have a material effect on the
Company s financial position and results of operations.

Tax Matters   

The Company is obligated to pay value added taxes
( VAT ) on the purchase of assets, and for certain
other transactions. In many instances, VAT can be offset against
VAT the Company collects and otherwise would remit to the tax
authorities, or may be refundable. Because the interpretation in
some jurisdictions of Georgia is changing, the local tax
authorities could assert that the Company is obligated to pay
additional amounts of VAT. The Company s policy is to
accrue for contingencies in the accounting period in which a
liability is deemed probable and the amount is reasonably
determinable. In this regard, because of the uncertainties
associated with VAT, the Company s VAT obligation may be in
excess of the estimated amount expensed to date and accrued at
December 31, 2004. In the opinion of management, any
additional VAT the Company may be obligated to pay would not be
material. However, depending on the amount and timing of

F-119

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

any unfavorable resolution of this contingency, it is possible
that the Company s future results of operations could be
materially affected in a particular period.

The Georgian Tax Inspectorate has performed a review of certain
interconnect arrangements that the Company has with other
telecommunications businesses within the country of Georgia to
determine whether the Company complied with Georgian tax
regulations. In addition, at the request of the Prosecutor
General s Office of the country of Georgia, the Center for
Expertise and Special Inquiries of the Ministry of Justice of
Georgia has completed an additional review of interconnect
arrangements to determine whether the Company has complied with
Georgian tax regulations. No material adverse finding has been
issued against the Company as a result of either investigation.

On December 22, 2004, the Georgian Government adopted a new
Tax Code, which came into force from January 1, 2005. From
twenty-one existing taxes in the country of Georgia, only seven
remain in the new tax code: social, income, profit, VAT, excise,
property and gambling. Several tax rates have been decreased:
the social tax   from 31% to 20%, personal income
tax   from a progressive tax averaging 18% to a flat
tax of 12%, VAT   from 20% to 18% effective
July 1, 2005. The Company s corporate income tax rate
remained 20%.

Distribution of Dividends   

On January 14, 2005, the Company declared dividends to its
shareholders totaling $30,000,000 ($30,000 per share),
which were paid on February 4, 2005. Of this amount,
approximately $28,400,000 represents free cash flows that were
generated based on business operational performance in 2004.

On September 15, 2005, the Company declared and paid a
dividend of $18,889,000 ($18,889 per share).

On October 18, 2006, the Company declared and paid a
dividend of $33,333,333 ($33,333 per share).

Ownership Restructuring   

As previously discussed in Note 1,  Basis of
Presentation and Description of Business , on February 15,
2005, MIG executed a series of transactions with
Dr. Jokhtaberidze, co-founder and then majority owner of
Magticom, whereby MIG reorganized its ownership interest in
Magticom. The net result of these transactions, was as follows:

MIG s economic ownership in the Company increased to 42.8%
    from 34.5%. Through MIG s majority economic ownership
    interest (50.1%) in International TC LLC, an intermediary
    holding company that owned, directly and indirectly as of
    February 28, 2005, 85.5% of the Company, MIG obtained the
    largest economic ownership interest in the Company and gained
    the ability to exert operational oversight over the Company.
    Dr. George Jokhtaberidze owned, prior to June 1, 2006,
    the remaining 49.9% interest in International TC LLC; 

A wholly-owned subsidiary of MIG issued a promissory note in the
    amount of $23.1 million to Dr. Jokhtaberidze as
    payment for the additional 8.3% Magticom interest that MIG
    obtained in February 2005 (the  Dr. Jokhtaberidze
    Promissory Note  and 

International TC LLC subsequently entered into an agreement with
    the Georgian government that resulted in the cancellation, in
    exchange for a cash payment of $15.0 million, of the
    Georgian government s rights to obtain a 20% purchase
    option in the Company. The $15.0 million payment was funded
    by pro-rata cash contributions to International TC LLC from MIG
    and Dr. Jokhtaberidze. The Georgian government s right
    to obtain a 20% purchase option in the Company resulted from a
    series of negotiations and agreements that were executed in
    April 2004 associated with MIG s, but most 

F-120

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

importantly Dr. Jokhtaberidze s ownership interest in
    the Company. These negotiations and agreements were a precursor
    to the, previously discussed, February 2005 agreements
    associated with the reorganization of ownership interest in the
    Company.  
      
     Specifically, in February 2004, Dr. George Jokhtaberidze,
    who is also the son-in-law of former Georgian president Eduard
    Shevardnadze, was arrested in Georgia pending investigation of
    various tax-related matters related to his ownership interest in
    the Company. On April 26, 2004, the prosecution of
    Dr. Jokhtaberidze by the Georgian government was dropped
    without any finding of wrongdoing and Dr. Jokhtaberidze was
    released from investigative detention. On the same day, the
    Georgian government s investigation into past business and
    tax payment practices of the Company were completed with no
    adverse findings. 

The partnership agreement for International TC LLC between MIG
and Dr. Jokhtaberidze provides MIG operational oversight of
International TC LLC and its subsidiaries, including Magticom,
subject to certain minority partner participatory rights.

On September 15, 2005, MIG and Dr. Jokhtaberidze
acquired the 14.5% effective interest in the Company, formerly
owned by Western Wireless, for a cash price of
$43.0 million. As a result, MIG owns 50.1% of the Company
through various holding companies and Dr. Jokhtaberidze
owned, prior to June 1, 2006, the remaining 49.9%. MIG and
Dr. Jokhtaberidze funded the $43.0 million purchase in
proportion to their respective ownership interests. Concurrent
with this transaction, MIG paid in full, all principal and
interest due to Dr. Jokhtaberidze, under the
Dr. Jokhtaberidze Promissory Note.

On June 1, 2006, Dr. Jokhtaberidze divested 3% of his
ownership interest in International TC LLC to Gemstone
Management, Ltd., a British Virgin Islands company. This
ownership restructuring had no significant effect on the
minority partner participatory rights since the International TC
LLC agreement that was executed in February 2005 had
contemplated that this event might occur at some point in the
future.

License Acquisitions   

On January 25, 2005, the Georgian regulatory authority
announced a tender of new mobile telephony spectrum license for
18% of the 800 MHz radio frequency spectrum available in Georgia
for offering CDMA, data, voice and video services. On
March 11, 2005, the Georgian regulatory authority announced
a tender of new mobile telephony spectrum license for 25% of the
3G frequency spectrum available in Georgia for offering 3G GSM
mobile voice, data and video services. Each license will grant
its holder a ten-year commercial right to use the respective
spectrum, however, the holder must offer commercial service
using the spectrum covered by the license within one year.
Applications for participation in the 800 MHz tender were
closed on April 14, 2005 and for participation in the
2.1 GHz tender on May 25, 2005. Tender applicants were
required to pay 10% of the minimum license fee at time of filing
their application; such amount either being refunded, if the
applicant is unsuccessful in obtaining the license being
tendered or being applied to the total final license fee due
from a successful applicant. Magticom applied timely for
participation in both tenders and made the requisite application
payments.

On May 25, 2005, an auction among three applicants for the
800 MHz license was held at which Magticom entered the
winning bid of GEL 26,100,000 ($14,300,000). Magticom indicated
its commitment to purchase the 800 MHz license for the
final auction price on June 24, 2005, at which time 30% of
that price was paid (less the 10% application payment of GEL
580,000 ($300,000)). The remaining portion of the price was
payable in monthly installments. Such license was granted on
July 1, 2005. Magticom completed technical trials of the
CDMA spectrum within one year as required by the license.

On August 5, 2005, an auction among three applicants for
the 2.1 GHz license was held at which Magticom entered the
winning bid of GEL 20,400,000 ($11,300,000). Magticom indicated
its commitment to purchase the 2.1 GHz license for the
final auction price on September 2, 2005, at which time 30%
of that price

F-121

Table of Contents   

MAGTICOM LIMITED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

was paid (less the 10% application payment of GEL 850,000
($460,000)). The remaining portion of the price was payable in
monthly installments. Such license was granted on
September 9, 2005. Magticom completed technical trials of
the 3G GSM spectrum within one year as required by the license.

On November 22, 2005, Magticom acquired at auction a
license to use 20% of the 1,800 MHz (or equivalent to 15%
of the combined 900 MHz and 1,800 MHz) radio frequency
spectrum available in Georgia for offering GSM data and voice
services. Magticom has paid approximately 1.0 million GEL
(approximately $0.6 million) for the license, which is
usable for a period of ten years.

On April 25, 2006, license rights for additional 3G radio
frequency spectrum, representing less than 25% of the available
3G radio frequency spectrum, were offered at auction; in which
the winning bid was approximately 20 million GEL
(approximately $11 million). Magticom did not directly
participate in the tender; however, Magticom has entered into
agreements with the winner of the April 2006 auction, pursuant
to which Magticom will acquire from that party license rights to
all of their license rights. Magticom anticipates paying the
full winning bid price, plus a nominal mark-up, for these
license rights. Following the purchase, Magticom s 3G
spectrum holdings is less than 50% of total 3G spectrum, as
required by Georgian law.

On July 7, 2006, the Georgian regulator renewed the
Company s 900 MHz s radio frequency spectrum licenses
for another ten year period, effective immediately. The Company
paid a license renewal fee of GEL 24.9 million
(approximately $13.7 million).

As noted above, the newly acquired licenses require that
Magticom must offer commercial service using the spectrum
covered by the licenses within one year. In addition, Magticom
must offer such service throughout Georgia within three years.
Accordingly, Magticom expects significant capital expenditures
for the foreseeable future.

F-122

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF
REGISTRANT 

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the condensed
financial information.

See Notes to Condensed Financial Information on page S-4.

S-1

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF
REGISTRANT 

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the condensed
financial information.

See Notes to Condensed Financial Information on page S-4.

S-2

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE I   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF
REGISTRANT 

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the condensed
financial information.

See Notes to Condensed Financial Information on page S-4.

S-3

Table of Contents   

(A)  
     
    The accompanying parent company financial statements reflect
    only the operations, balance sheet and cash flows of Metromedia
    International Group, Inc. (the  Company  or the
     Registrant ) for the years ended December 31,
    2004, 2003 and 2002. As discussed in Note 1 of the
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,  the
    Company is a holding company that has economic interests in
    business ventures that principally provide telecommunications
    services to customers in the country of Georgia. 

(B) 

The Company has determined that it should restate certain
    reports, including the accompanying parent company financial
    statements, included previously on
    Form  10-K  and
    Form  10-Q  to
    reflect the correction of certain past accounting errors. For
    additional information and specific errors corrected, see
    Note 2 of the  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.  

(C) 

The principal repayments of the Registrant s borrowings
    under contractual terms of debt agreements are as follows (in
    thousands): 

For additional information regarding the Registrant s and
    subsidiaries  borrowings under debt agreements and other
    debt, see Note 7 of the  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.  

On April 24, 2003, the Company completed an exchange with
    Adamant Advisory Services ( Adamant ) of certain of
    its business ventures in Russia for, among other things,
    $58.6 million face value of Senior Notes held by Adamant,
    $5.0 million in cash and a release of its $3.5 million
    obligation to pay interest accrued on the Senior Notes being
    exchanged (see Notes 7 and 12 of the  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  With the completion of
    this transaction, the outstanding principal balance on the
    Senior Notes was reduced to $152.0 million. 

On June 3, 2005, the Company defaulted on certain covenants
    outlined in the trustee agreement governing the Senior Notes.
    The Company paid a fee of $0.4 million to holders of the
    Senior Notes on June 9, 2005, which granted the Company an
    extension to July 15, 2005 to remedy the events of default.
    On July 16, 2005, the Company failed to remedy the
    defaults, thus an event of default occurred as of that date. 

In addition, on August 8, 2005, the Company completed
    redemption of the Registrant s outstanding debt with the
    proceeds from the disposition of PeterStar. For additional
    information, see Note 19 of the  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.  

S-4

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
ACCOUNTS 

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 

ALLOWANCES FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS, ETC. 

(DEDUCTED FROM CURRENT RECEIVABLES) 

S-5

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

Designation  

of  

Document with Which Exhibit  

Exhibit in  

was Previously Filed with  

This  

Commission Exhibits Incorporated  

Form 10-K  
       
      Description of Exhibits  
       
      Herein by Reference  

2 
     .1 

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 18, 1999,
    among Metromedia International Group, Inc. Moscow
    Communications, Inc. and PLD Telekom Inc. 

Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 19, 1999 

2 
     .2 

Certificate of Ownership and Merger of Landmet Group, Inc. into
    Metromedia International Group, Inc. dated December 7, 1998 

Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 2002, Exhibit 3.5 

3 
     .1 

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Metromedia
    International Group, Inc. 

Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration
    No. 33-63853), Exhibit 3(a) 

3 
     .2 

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of Metromedia International Group, Inc. 

Annual Report on form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 2002, Exhibit 3.2 

3 
     .3 

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of Metromedia International Group, Inc. 

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2003, Exhibit 3.7 

3 
     .4 

Certificate of Designation of 7.25% Cumulative Convertible
    Preferred Stock of Metromedia International Group, Inc. 

Form 8-A, dated September 11, 1997, Exhibit 1.1 

3 
     .5 

Restated By-laws of Metromedia International Group, Inc. 

Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration
    No. 33-63853), Exhibit 3(b) 

4 
     .1 

Indenture dated as of September 30, 1999, between
    Metromedia International Group, Inc. and U.S. Bank National
    Association as Trustee 

Current Report on Form 8-K for event occurring on
    September 30, 1999 

4 
     .2 

First Supplemental Indenture dated June 14, 2005, by and
    between Metromedia International Group, Inc. and U.S. Bank
    National Association (f/k/a U.S. Bank
    Trust Association) as trustee 

Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 17, 2005,
    Exhibit 4.1 

4 
     .3 

Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 15, 2005,
    between Metromedia International Group, Inc. and U.S. Bank
    National Association (f/k/a U.S. Bank Trust National
    Association) as trustee 

Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 25, 2005,
    Exhibit 4.1 

9 
     .1 

Form of lock-up and voting agreement with representatives of
    holders of Metromedia International Group, Inc. 7.25% Cumulative
    Convertible Preferred Stock 

Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 2, 2006,
    Exhibit 10.1 

9 
     .2 

Form of amendment to the lock-up and voting agreements with
    representatives of holders of Metromedia International Group,
    Inc. 7.25% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock 

Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 20, 2006,
    Exhibit 10.1 

10 
     .1 

Retirement Plan executed November 1, 1990, as amended
    effective January 1, 1989 

Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 1990, Exhibit 10.7 

10 
     .2 

Supplemental Retirement Plan of The Actava Group Inc. 

Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 1983, Exhibit 10.8 

Table of Contents   

Table of Contents   

Table of Contents   

Table of Contents   

Designation  

of  

Document with Which Exhibit  

Exhibit in  

was Previously Filed with  

This  

Commission Exhibits Incorporated  

Form 10-K  
       
      Description of Exhibits  
       
      Herein by Reference  

10 
     .44 

Incentive Bonus Agreement, dated October 1, 2006, by and
    between Metromedia International Group, Inc. and Mark Hauf 

Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 2, 2006,
    Exhibit 10.2 

10 
     .45 

Incentive Bonus Agreement, dated October 1, 2006, by and
    between Metromedia International Group, Inc. and Harold F.
    Pyle, III 

Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 2, 2006,
    Exhibit 10.3 

12* 

Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 

14 

Metromedia International Group, Inc. Code of Ethics for the
    Company s Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial
    Officers 

Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 2003, Exhibit 14 

16 

Letter from KPMG LLP to SEC dated July 14, 2004 

Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 9, 2004,
    Exhibit 16.1 

18 

Letter of KPMG LLP dated May 14, 2004 regarding
    Registrant s change in accounting policy regarding the
    accounting for certain business ventures previously reported on
    a three-month lag basis 

Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 2003, Exhibit 18 

21* 

List of subsidiaries of Metromedia International Group, Inc. 

23 
     .1* 

Consent of KPMG Limited regarding Metromedia International
    Group, Inc. 

23 
     .2* 

Consent of KPMG LLP regarding Metromedia International Group,
    Inc. 

23 
     .3* 

Consent of KPMG Limited regarding Magticom Limited 

31 
     .1* 

Certification of the Principal Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

31 
     .2* 

Certification of the Principal Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

32 
     .1* 

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

32 
     .2* 

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

*  
     
    Filed herewith 

<EX-10.42>
 2
 h38088exv10w42.htm
 AMENDMENT NO.1 TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - MARK STEPHEN HAUF

exv10w42 

Exhibit 10.42

AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO 
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 

This AMENDMENT NO. 1 (this   Amendment  ) to the Employment Agreement by and between
Metromedia International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ), and Mark
Stephen Hauf (  Executive  ), entered into on October 6, 2003 and effective as of October 1,
2003 (the   Employment Agreement  ), is made by and between the Company and Executive on
November 1, 2005 (the   Effective Date  ).

WHEREAS, Executive and the Company desire to amend the Employment Agreement as provided in
this Amendment.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration,
the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:

1.  Section 2.07(a)  of the Employment Agreement is amended to delete the words
 Ninety-eight Thousand United States Dollars (US$98,000) per annum  and add in substitution
thereof the words  One Hundred and Forty-Four Thousand United States Dollars (US$144,000) per
annum. 

2.  Section 2.07(b)  of the Employment Agreement is amended to delete the words
 Twenty-Five Thousand United States Dollars (US$25,000) per annum  and add in substitution
thereof the words  Thirty Thousand United States Dollars (US$30,000) per annum. 

3.  Continuing Effect of Employment Agreement.  Except as expressly modified hereby,
the provisions of the Employment Agreement are and shall remain in full force and effect.

4.  Governing Law.  This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the internal substantive laws of the State of North Carolina, without regard to conflicts
of laws principles that would cause the laws of another state to apply.

5.  Counterparts.  This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts, each
of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and
the same instrument.

6.  Effectiveness.  This Amendment shall become effective as of the Effective Date.

Remainder of page intentionally left blank.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of
the date first above written.

Metromedia International Group, Inc. 

By:   
     /S/ Harold F. Pyle, III

Name:   
     Harold F. Pyle, III  

Title:   
     Chief Financial Officer  

/S/ Mark Stephen Hauf

Mark Stephen Hauf  

Signature page to Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement  

</EX-10.42>

<EX-12>
 3
 h38088exv12.htm
 RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exv12 

Exhibit 12 

METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 
(in thousands) 

(A)  
       
     For purposes of this computation, earnings are defined as pre-tax
earnings or loss from continuing operations of the Company before
adjustment for minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries or
income or loss from equity investees attributable to common
stockholders plus (i) fixed charges and (ii) distributed income of
equity investees. Fixed charges are the sum of (i) interest expensed
and capitalized, (ii) amortization of deferred financing costs,
premium and debt discounts, (iii) the portion of operating lease
rental expense that is representative of the interest factor (deemed
to be one-third) and (iv) dividends on preferred stock. The ratio of
earnings to fixed charges of the Company was less than 1.00 for each
of the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000; thus,
earnings available for fixed charges were inadequate to cover fixed
charges for such periods. The deficiency in earnings to fixed charges
for each of the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, 2002, 2001 and
2000 were $66.8 million, $49.6 million, $96.9 million,
$99.7 million
and $20.9 million, respectively. 

In addition, the Company had guaranteed the debt of certain of its
business ventures. The interest expense associated with the debt that
had been guaranteed by the Company was $0.4 million, $2.0 million and
$1.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 4
 h38088exv21.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

exv21 

Exhibit 21 

LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES OF 
METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  
(f/k/a The Actava Group, Inc.)

Name of Company  
       
      Jurisdiction of Incorporation  

Turtle Shell, Inc. (f/k/a Snapper, Inc.)

Georgia, USA 

Metromedia International Telecommunications, Inc.

Delaware 

International Telcell, Inc.

Delaware 

Telecom Georgia

Republic of Georgia 

International Telcell SPS, Inc.

Delaware 

Ayety

Republic of Georgia 

International Telcell Cellular, Inc.

Delaware 

Magticom Ltd.

Republic of Georgia 

Metromedia International Consulting Services, Inc.

Delaware 

Dotcom Communications, AS

Estonia 

PLD Telekom, Inc.

Delaware 

PeterStar ZAO

Russia 

Baltic Communications Limited

Russia 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 h38088exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LIMITED

exv23w1 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED 
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 23.1 

The Board of Directors 
Metromedia International Group, Inc.:

We consent to incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-02301,
333-13763, 333-88187 and 333-95159) on Form S-8 of Metromedia International Group, Inc. of our
report dated
December 14, 2006, with respect to the consolidated balance sheet of Metromedia
International Group, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders  equity
(deficiency) and comprehensive income (loss) and cash flows
for the year ended December 31, 2004, and all related consolidated financial statement schedules,
which report appears in the December 31, 2004 annual report on Form 10-K of Metromedia
International Group, Inc.

/s/ KPMG Limited

Moscow, Russian Federation 
December 14, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 6
 h38088exv23w2.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

exv23w2 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED 
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 23.2 

The Board of Directors 
Metromedia International Group, Inc.:

We consent to incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-02301,
333-13763, 333-88187 and 333-95159) on Form S-8 of Metromedia International Group, Inc. of our
report dated May 14, 2004 except as to Note 2, which is as of
December 14, 2006, with respect to the
consolidated balance sheets of Metromedia International Group, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December
31, 2003 and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  (deficiency)
equity and comprehensive income (loss) and cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended December
31, 2003, and all related consolidated financial statement schedules, which report appears in the
December 31, 2004 annual report on Form 10-K of Metromedia International Group, Inc.

Our report dated May 14, 2004, except as to Note 2 which is as of December 14, 2006, contains an
explanatory paragraph that states the Company has suffered recurring operating losses and net
operating cash deficiencies, and does not presently have sufficient funds on hand to meet its
current debt obligations, which raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going
concern. The consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedules do
not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of that uncertainty.

Our
report dated May 14, 2004, except as to Note 2 which is as of
December 14, 2006 also contains explanatory paragraphs that state that the consolidated financial statements as of December 31,
2003 and for the two-year period ended December 31, 2003 have
been restated and that the Company changed its policy regarding the accounting for
certain business ventures previously reported on a three-month lag basis as of January 1, 2003.

KPMG LLP

New York, New York 
December 14, 2006

</EX-23.2>

<EX-23.3>
 7
 h38088exv23w3.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LIMITED

exv23w3 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC 
ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 23.3 

The Board of Directors 
Magticom Limited:

We
consent to incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-02301, 333-13763,
333-88187 and 333-95159) on Form S-8 of Metromedia International Group, Inc. of our report dated
December 14,
2006, with respect to the balance sheets of Magticom Limited as of December 31, 2004
and 2003 and the related statements of income, stockholders  equity and comprehensive income and
cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and September 30, 2002 and the
three-month period ended December 31, 2002, which report appears in the December 31, 2004 annual
report on Form 10-K of Metromedia International Group, Inc.

Our
report dated December 14, 2006, contains an explanatory
paragraph that states that the financial statements as of
December 31, 2003 and for the years ended December 31, 2003
and September 30,
2002 and the three-month period ended December 31, 2002 have
been restated.

/s/ KPMG Limited

Moscow, Russian Federation 
December 14, 2006

</EX-23.3>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 h38088exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

I, Mark S. Hauf, certify that:

1.  
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Metromedia International Group, Inc.; 

2.  
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this annual report fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this report. 

4.  
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure control and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedure to be designed under
our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and 

c) 
       
     disclosed in this annual report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report)
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and 

5.  
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s Board of
Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ MARK S. HAUF 

President, Chief Executive Officer 
and Chairman of the Board  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 h38088exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 

I, Harold F. Pyle, III, certify that:

1.  
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Metromedia International Group, Inc.; 

2.  
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this annual report fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this annual report. 

4.  
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure control and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedure to be designed under
our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and 

c) 
       
     disclosed in this annual report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report)
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and 

5.  
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s Board of
Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:
December 14, 2006

/s/ Harold F. Pyle, III 

Executive Vice President Finance,
Chief  Financial Officer and Treasurer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 h38088exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION 
PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 906 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of Metromedia International Group, Inc. (the  Company )
on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2004, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned hereby certifies, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(a)  
       
     the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(b)  
       
     the Information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of the Company. 

Dated
this
14th day of December 2006.

/s/ MARK S. HAUF

Mark S. Hauf

President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board (Principal Executive Officer)  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 11
 h38088exv32w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION 
PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 906 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of Metromedia International Group, Inc. (the  Company )
on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2004, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned hereby certifies, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(a)  
       
     the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(b)  
       
     the Information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of the Company. 

Dated
this
14th day of December 2006.

/s/ HAROLD F. PYLE, III

Harold F. Pyle, III 

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 
and Treasurer (Principal Financial and  
Accounting Officer)  

</EX-32.2>

