<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061004_10-K_edgar_data_96057_0001259943-06-000076_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2181433</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>248341</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1523227</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>47</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>0</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001259943-06-000076.hdr.sgml : 20061004
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061004171504
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001259943-06-000076
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		1
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060928
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061004
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061004

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SYS
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000096057
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				952467354
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-32397
		FILM NUMBER:		061129143

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5050 MURPHY CANYON ROAD
		STREET 2:		SUITE 200
		CITY:			SAN DIEGO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92123
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8587155500

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5050 MURPHY CANYON ROAD
		STREET 2:		SUITE 200
		CITY:			SAN DIEGO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92123

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SYSTEMS ASSOCIATES INC OF CALIFORNIA
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19850927

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SYSTEMS ASSOCIATES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19800115

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 H5HJkhxWjlbllPrgg08iGHpSQCpgu8ZOYsuOhkV6Opc8RPxh2/7RpSoG5iYQ5bux
 bcKNjq/6E8QfehYXz8EVgg==

 0001259943-06-000076.txt : 20061004

10-K
 1
 sys10k.htm
 SYS TECHNOLOGIES 10K 2006

SYS Technologies 10k 2006

U.S.
        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

         WASHINGTON,
        D.C. 20549  

FORM 10-K  

(Mark
        One)  

         x       ANNUAL
        REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
        OF 1934  

For
        the fiscal year ended     June
        30, 2006  

OR  

o       TRANSITION
        REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
        OF 1934  

For
        the transition period from
                       
to

Commission
        File Number 000-04169  

SYS  

        (Exact
        name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 

California  

95-2467354  

(State
                  or other jurisdiction of 

(I.R.S.
                  Employer 

incorporation
                  or organization) 

Identification
                  Number) 

5050
        Murphy Canyon Road, Suite 200, San Diego, California 92123  

        (Address
        of principal executive offices) (Zip code) 

(858)
        715-5500  

        (Registrant s
        telephone number, including area code) 

Securities
        registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    None  

Name
        of
        each exchange on which registered:    None  

Securities
        registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 

         Common
        Stock,     No
        par value per share  

         Preferred
        Stock, $0.50 Par value  

        (Title
        of
        Class) 

Indicate
        by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
        in
        Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes   o  
        No
  x 

Indicate
        by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
        to
        Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes   o  
        No
  x 

Indicate
        by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to
        be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
        1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
        Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to
        such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   x  
        No
  o 

Indicate
        by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
        Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the
        best of
        the Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
        incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
        amendment to this Form 10-K.   x 

Indicate
        by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
        accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
        filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange
        Act of 1934. (Check one): Large accelerated filer   o  
        Accelerated filer   o  
        Non-accelerated filer   x 

Indicate
        by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
        12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes    o  
        No
  x 

As
        of
        December 31, 2005, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
        non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $32.6 million based on
        the
        closing price reported on the American Stock Exchange. As of August
        30, 2006, the number of shares outstanding of the Registrant s common stock
        was approximately 15.4 million, based on information provided by the
        Registrant s transfer agent. 

Documents
        incorporated by reference: Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement to be
        filed in connection with the registrant s 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
        are incorporated by reference in Part III of the Annual Report pursuant to
        General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K. 

SYS  

         FISCAL
        YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2006  

         TABLE
        OF CONTENTS  

PART
                    I  

Page  

Item
                    1. BUSINESS 

3 

Item
                    1A. RISK FACTORS  

8 

Item
                    1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

12 

Item
                    2. PROPERTIES  

12 

Item
                    3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

12 

Item
                    4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

12 

PART
                    II  

Item
                    5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
                    ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

12 

Item
                    6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

13 

Item
                    7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
                    OF OPERATIONS 

14 

Item
                    7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
                    RISKS 

20 

Item
                    8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

20 

Item
                    9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
                    AND
                    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

20 

Item
                    9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

20 

Item
                    9B. OTHER INFORMATION  

20 

PART
                    III  

Item
                    10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

21 

Item
                    11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

21 

Item
                    12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
                    AND
                    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

21 

Item
                    13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

21 

Item
                    14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

21 

PART
                    IV  

Item
                    15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

22 

SIGNATURES    

23

FINANCIAL
                    STATEMENTS 

F-3 

PART
        I  

Item
        1. BUSINESS  

General  

SYS
        and its
        subsidiaries     provide
        information connectivity solutions that capture, analyze and present real-time
        information to customers in the Department of Defense (DoD), Department of
        Homeland Security (DHS), other government agencies and to large industrial
        companies.  Using interoperable communications software, sensors, digital
        video broadcast and surveillance technologies, wireless networks,
        decision-support tools and Net-centric technologies, our technical experts
        enhance complex decision-making. Founded in 1966, SYS is headquartered in
        San
        Diego and has principal offices in California, Virginia and Maryland. For
        additional information, visit   www.systechnologies.com    

We
        enhance
        situational awareness in battlefield, environmental disaster and crisis
        environments for our national security customers. We optimize utilization
        of
        remote assets for our industrial, energy and transportation customers. We
        also
        provide solution lifecycle support with program, financial, test and logistical
        services, including classroom and online training. 

Historically,
        our revenues have been generated by providing services to the DoD. While
        we are
        continuing to grow our DoD business, we also have a growing revenue base
        with
        other U.S. Government agencies, municipal and state governments, and companies
        in the industrial/commercial marketplace.  

The
        Company
        has two reportable business segments. The Defense Solutions Group (DSG) and
        the
        Public Safety, Security and Industrial Systems Group (PSSIG) (See Note 14
        in the
        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).  

The
        DSG
        provides engineering, technical, information systems, and financial management
        services primarily to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and other
        agencies. The business of the DSG can be further categorized into two broad
        categories, namely: (i) Command, Control, Computers, Communications,
        Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) and (ii) engineering
        and
        program management services. The C4ISR business supports agencies and
        organizations of the DoD and DHS by providing systems engineering and systems
        integration, software development, geospatial information systems and
        situational awareness tools. Engineering and program management services
        support
        a broad spectrum of program management, infrastructure management and business
        operations functions principally for U.S. Government or DoD
        customers. 

The
        PSSIG
        was formed on July 1, 2005 to consolidate the activities previously performed
        in
        the: (i) Sensor Networking Systems and Products Group; (ii) the Public Safety
        and Security Division and (iii) programs previously captured in the DSG where
        the activities were focused on public safety and security. This group leverages
        the capabilities acquired through prior acquisitions together with our other
        core capabilities including software integration and geospatial information
        processing. The PSSIG offers a comprehensive solution to our customer base,
        addressing homeland security and business security issues at the federal,
        state,
        and local levels.  

The
        PSSIG
        draws on technical resources throughout SYS to effect timely and reliable
        solutions to meet the command and response needs of fire and law enforcement
        as
        well as other first responders. The scope of this effort involves the
        application of service oriented internet architectures, information
        visualization, and decision support technologies supplemented with other
        SYS
        technologies including digital video/audio broadcasting, video surveillance,
        and
        wireless sensor networking. The formation of this group at the beginning
        of the
        2006 fiscal year reflects our commitment to applying our technology base
        to
        solving homeland security and homeland defense issues.  

Business
        S  trategy  

Our
        business strategy is focused on continuing to develop our core strengths
        in
        C4ISR, information technology, systems integration and program and financial
        management while adding products and capabilities that will allow us to grow
        our
        markets in these areas as well as expand into other markets, including
        commercial/industrial markets. We intend to accomplish this strategy through
        acquisitions and through productizing capabilities and solutions developed
        through our engineering services. We believe that this strategy will enable
        us
        to diversify our revenue sources, compete for larger DoD programs and grow
        our
        operating margins, especially through the inclusion of products. Three key
        aspects of this strategy are as follows: 

o    
             
                Timing.
                The process of transforming from a pure service provider to providing
                a
                mix of high technology services and products is targeted to occur
                in a
                staged fashion. As the revenues from our engineering and program
                management services decrease, new revenues from new customers need
                to be
                generated in a synchronized fashion; 

o    
             
                Products.
                Our objective is to introduce new products to the market place. Given
                the
                size of our company, our challenge is to effectively manage the effort
                required to develop and introduce new products while trying to generate
                quarterly profits. We have made investments in our infrastructure
                to
                enable product development, marketing, sales, manufacturing and
                distribution. If we come to the market too late or do not generate
                sufficient sales to cover the expenses associated with new product
                development, our results of operations and cash flows will be adversely
                affected. We plan to develop the products in a timely manner and
                maintain
                our profitability, but near term quarterly revenue and profit could
                be
                impacted if sales are delayed. Our results of operations for the
                fiscal
                year ended June 30, 2006 reflect the impacts of making investments
                in new
                product development and infrastructure to support additional revenues
                in
                advance of sales for these products; and 

o    
             
                Acquisitions.
                We intend to expand our capabilities and broaden our markets by acquiring
                companies that have products or niche service offerings. As we execute
                on
                this strategy, we will build the existing infrastructure to accommodate
                the new organizations and have them adapt to our systems and
                methodologies. We also intend to invest in the resources and talent
                needed
                to recognize and evaluate these opportunities and to value the acquisition
                opportunities in a fashion that makes this business strategy financially
                viable.  

Growth
        Strategy     

Our
        revenues have grown organically by establishing new business units with
        experienced senior executives who have the ability to grow these business
        units
        and expand our customer base. Our objective is to continue growing revenues
        organically and through acquisitions. In order to assist in accomplishing
        this
        objective, we have continued to increase our selling, general and administrative
        and research and development expenditures to facilitate new business development
        and to build the necessary infrastructure to support a larger organization.
        We
        plan to acquire businesses and technologies that meet our primary objective
        of
        providing us with enhanced capabilities in order to pursue a broader cross
        section of the DoD, DHS and other government markets, which at the same time,
        may enable us to achieve our secondary objective of broadening our customer
        base. We are currently evaluating potential targets. We anticipate that we
        will
        need to obtain additional financing through the sale of equity or debt
        securities to fund any such acquisitions. Our research and development
        activities are primarily oriented towards further developing the products
        acquired from our acquisitions and where applicable, integrating those products
        into other solutions, with the intent of accelerating the development cycle
        and
        increasing sales. 

We
        anticipate that this strategy will allow us to bid on larger government
        contracts and programs. We also expect to re-compete on our existing engineering
        and management contracts. Our rate of revenue growth depends upon many factors,
        including, among others, our success in bidding on new contracts and re-competes
        of our existing contracts, the continuation of our existing programs, our
        ability to develop and launch products, the funding levels for our contracts,
        our ability to meet demand for our services or products and our ability to
        grow
        the businesses of our acquired companies.  

3 

Recent
        Acquisitions and Technology Purchases  

On
        March 31, 2004, SYS acquired all of the outstanding stock of Polexis, a
        privately held, San Diego-based provider of advanced data management software
        in
        support of enterprise operations and mission-critical decision-making. Polexis
        provides the DoD with information tools that transform time-critical and
        rapidly
        changing data into information that is delivered to decision makers. Polexis
        solutions offered customers  real-time access to and analysis of vital
        information, improving the speed and effectiveness of operations.  

On
        December 16, 2004, SYS acquired all of the assets of Xsilogy, a privately
        held,
        San Diego-based provider of wireless sensor network technologies and
        applications. Xsilogy developed and marketed low-cost wireless sensor modules,
        infrastructure products and software for creating, deploying and managing
        large
        machine-to-machine networks in industrial applications.  

On
        January 6, 2005, SYS acquired all of the outstanding stock of Antin, a
        defense contractor that provided information technology, C4ISR, and technical
        support services.  

Effective
        August 22, 2005, the Company acquired the assets of Web Technologies, LLC
        (Web
        Tech). The purpose of the acquisition was to further the Company s goal of
        acquiring technology companies which expand our products and customer
        base. 

On
        September 27, 2005, the Company entered into an agreement to purchase certain
        technology and intellectual property rights related to the ForceViz technology
        of Lomasoft Corporation 

On
        November 7, 2005, SYS acquired all of the outstanding stock of Logic
        Innovations, Inc. (Logic), a privately held, San Diego-based provider of
        solutions that helped to ensure the fast and efficient delivery of digital
        audio, video and data to the broadcasting, communications and consumer
        electronics industries.  

On
        December 2, 2005, SYS acquired all of the assets and assumed certain specified
        liabilities of cVideo, Inc., a San Diego-based provider of interactive video
        and
        information analysis products for business surveillance and security
        applications. 

On
        April
        2, 2006, SYS acquired Realty Based IT Services, Ltd. (RBIS), a provider of
        Information Technology (IT) security engineering which developed, implemented
        and maintained convergent security services that are delivered by personnel
        with
        high level U.S. government clearances.  

Productization
        Strategy  

By
        taking
        advantage of   our
        experience in systems analysis, requirements definition and system operations,
        SYS is developing new solutions for both military command and control and
        commercial management decision support needs. This approach utilizes information
        technology, artificial intelligence, logic and advanced visualization techniques
        to develop knowledge management tools. The objective is to leverage both
        SYS and
        customer subject matter expertise to make more effective decisions. 

To
        date
        we have successfully developed two such solutions in the area of decision
        support, namely; The Assessment Profiling System (TAPS) and Vigilys , which
        includes our flagship family of software products: Vigilys Commander, Vigilys
        Conductor and Vigilys Responder Mobile.  

TAPS
        is
        an advanced graphical visualization system coupled with a state space logic
        engine to provide a web-based information service for real-time assessment
        of
        key metrics that contribute to decision making.  

The
        Vigilys  applications can be used to more effectively manage incident response
        operations and enable efficient sharing of time critical information between
        responders in the field and supporting operations centers, and between
        cooperating private, local, county, state, federal, and DoD
        agencies. 

Future
        productization efforts will likely include integrating other SYS products
        and
        services as part of the Vigilys  solution, such as Logic s broadcast digital
        audio/video products, cVideo s video surveillance products, WebTech s e-learning
        solutions and TAPS decision support tools into a comprehensive solution that
        can
        be offered as a total solution or as separate modules depending on the needs
        of
        the customer. 

In
        addition, we are looking at further product enhancement opportunities for
        our
        existing products and solutions as well as seeking other new products in
        other
        engineering areas where we can help our customers solve their current problems
        at a lower cost.   

         U.S.
        Government Contracts  

We
        have
        derived a majority of our revenues from  
        contracts with government agencies, the vast majority of which are with the
        Federal Government, under which we act as a prime or subcontractor. During
        fiscal 2006, approximately 94% of our total annual revenues were derived
        from
        contracts with government agencies. During fiscal 2005 and 2004, we did not
        record any material revenues related to commercial customers as substantially
        all of our annual revenues were derived from contracts with government agencies.
        We intend to focus on retaining and trying to increase the percentage of
        our
        business as prime contractor because it provides us with client relationships
        that generate higher levels of revenue and makes us less dependent on other
        prime contractors.  Our mix of contracts in which we acted as a prime
        contractor verses a subcontractor during fiscal 2006 and 2005 consisted of
        the
        following: 

Our
          cost
        of
        revenues are affected by the mix of contract types (cost reimbursement,
        fixed-price or time and materials) as well as the mix of prime contracts
        versus
        subcontracts. Further, with the recent inclusion of products based companies
        such as Logic and cVideo, our cost of revenues will be affected by the cost
        and
        availability of materials and components, product mix and other fixed and
        variable costs. Significant portions of our contracts are time and materials
        and
        cost reimbursement contracts. Subject to contract limits, we are reimbursed
        for
        labor hours at negotiated hourly billing rates and other direct expenses
        under
        time and materials contracts and reimbursed for all actual allowable costs,
        plus
        a fee, or profit, under cost reimbursement contracts. The financial risks
        under
        these contracts are generally lower than those associated with other types
        of
        contracts such as fixed price contracts, however, the margins are also typically
        lower than those on fixed-price contracts. The U.S. Government also has awarded
        us fixed-price contracts. Such contracts carry higher financial risks because
        we
        must deliver the products, systems or contract services at a cost below the
        fixed contract value in order to earn a profit.  

4 

Contract
        backlog  

As
        of
        June 30, 2006, the Company s delivery order and contract tasking backlog totaled
        approximately $34.1 million, of which $23.4 million was funded and
        $10.  7
        million
        had been ordered, but not yet funded.  As of June 30, 2005, the
        Company s delivery order and contract tasking backlog totaled approximately
        $25.4 million, of which $15.5 million was funded and $9.9 million had been
        ordered, but not yet funded.  

All
        of
        our U.S. government contracts are subject to audit and various cost controls
        and
        include standard provisions for termination for the convenience of the U.S.
        government. Multi-year U.S. government contracts and related orders are subject
        to cancellation if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year
        become
        unavailable.  

C  omponents
        and Raw Materials   

Much
        of
        the products business conducted by SYS to date consists primarily of component
        assembly and integration where we contract with third parties to build product
        specific components or we purchase standard off the shelf components both
        of
        which are delivered to our facilities where we complete the product assembly
        and
        quality assurance phases prior to shipping to our end customers. We are not
        dependent on any on  e
        vendor
        as a source of the components nor are there any rare or hard to procure
        components in our product bill of materials. 

Industry
        Overview   

DSG   

Spending
        by the U.S. Government on information technology and services supporting
        the use
        of information technology is increasing. Several trends suggest that spending
        will continue to rise, including the following:  

U.S.
        Government s pursuit of procurement reform;  

U.S.
        Government s need to transform legacy technology;  

Focus
        on efficiency requiring more technology as its base;  

Staffing crisis resulting in increased use of outsourcing; and  

Bush
        Administration s commitment to technology transformation and consolidation.

President
        Bush s fiscal year (FY) 2007 defense budget requests $439.3 billion in DoD
        discretionary budget authority, a 7% increase over FY 2006. The 2007 budget
        supports substantial investments in advanced technology to provide advantages
        over our enemies, particularly in remote sensing and high-performance computing.
        This includes investments in communications improving connectivity between
        troops and their commanders well beyond the field of battle. C4ISR capabilities,
        information communications and transformation are some of the key areas of
        focus
        for the DoD s technology spending.  

We
        believe opportunities for growth can be found in the following areas:

C4ISR

Defense
        IT  

Knowledge management  

Systems
        integration  

Training/simulation  

SYS
        has
  historically
        targeted these areas for growth with engineering service solutions and in
        the
        past two years has begun to further supplement this growth with targeted
        products. Our first products were in the areas of knowledge management and
        training/ simulation which were software based products developed internally.
        Through its acquisitions SYS has added both service and product capabilities
        in:
        software development; decision support systems; video surveillance; digital
        audio video broadcast products and solutions; network security solutions;
        on
        line training solutions and wireless sensor networking products. 

PSSIG   

President
        Bush s fiscal year 2007 budget request for the   DHS
        represents $42.7 billion in funding, an increase of 6% over the previous
        year.
        The request reflects recent organizational reforms and program changes to
        ensure
        that the department s policies, operations, and structures remain
        mission-focused and well-aligned to meet evolving threats.  

The
        proposed budget request supports Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff s
        agenda for a department that is organized around mission, eliminates
        duplication, and disciplined in risk management. Central to the department s
        budget are five themes:  increasing overall preparedness and strengthening
        the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); strengthening border security
        and reforming immigration; enhancing transportation security through more
        efficient and secure system controls; improving information sharing; and
        strengthening the department s organization in order to maximize
        performance. 

SYS s
        initial focus is in the areas of increasing overall preparedness and improving
        information sharing. We are addressing this through the deployment of our
        Vigilys  solution. The Vigilys  solution can be used to more effectively manage
        incident response operations and enable efficient sharing of time critical
        information between responders in the field and supporting operations centers,
        and between cooperating private, local, county, state, federal, and DoD
        agencies. 

We
        believe that America's first line of defense in any terrorist attack is the
        "first responder" community - local police, firefighters, and emergency medical
        professionals. Additionally, we believe properly trained and equipped first
        responders have the greatest potential to save lives and limit casualties
        after
        a terrorist attack. Currently, capabilities for responding to a terrorist
        attack
        vary widely across the country. Many areas have little or no capability to
        respond to terrorist attacks using weapons of mass destruction. Even the
        best
        prepared states and localities do not possess adequate resources to respond
        to
        the full range of terrorist threats. 

Facts
        About First Responders   

There
                are over 1 million firefighters in the United States, of which
                approximately 750,000 are volunteers; 

there
                are over 155,000 nationally registered emergency medical technicians.

5 

Mutual
        Aid Agreements: Support for First Responders Outside Major Metropolitan Areas

Terrorists
        can strike anytime, anywhere. Crop dusters, power generating plants, dams
        and
        reservoirs, crops, livestock, trains and highways are among the resources
        that
        could be targets. Homeland security in the heartland is just as important
        as
        homeland security in America's largest cities.  

First
        responders from communities outside major metropolitan areas who must protect
        large geographic areas with small populations face many response challenges.
        In
        fact, over half of our firefighters protect small or rural communities of
        fewer
        than 5,000 people. Many of these communities rely upon volunteer departments
        with scarce resources. Fewer than 10% of counties surveyed by the National
        Association of Counties said they are prepared to respond to a bioterrorist
        attack.  

An
        important strategy to build capability in communities outside major metropolitan
        areas is to develop mutual aid agreements to share resources. First responders
        from smaller communities need assistance in organizing and developing the
        unified command and control procedures and protocols necessary for operationally
        sound mutual aid. These agreements will enable neighboring jurisdictions
        to
        share specialized resources, rather than duplicate them in every jurisdiction.

Our
        strategy is to deploy Vigilys  in as many of these cities and agencies as
        possible and ultimately sell  add-on  capabilities such as Logic s broadcast
        digital audio/video products, cVideo s video surveillance products, WebTech s
        e-learning solutions and TAPS decision support tools. 

Customers   

SYS
        is
        engaged in multiple contracts as both a prime and subcontractor.   Our
        customers include (but are not limited to) the following:  

Defense 

Other
                  Government 

Industrial/Commercial 

U.S.
                  Navy: 

DHS 

American
                  Honda Motor Co., Inc.    

NAVSEA 

Delaware
                  County, PA 

Fox
                  Networks 

SPAWAR 

California
                  Office of  

General
                  Electric Corporation  

NAVAIR 

Emergency
                  Services  

HBO 

ONR 

California
                  Department of  

IntelSat 

Other
                  DoD Entities: 

Transportation 

Lehigh
                  University 

DARPA 

Motorola 

Missile
                  Defense Agency 

Orange
                  County Public Schools 

NASA 

PanAmSat 

DISA 

Pratt
                    Whitney 

Lockheed-Martin 

Primemedia 

Northrop
                  Grumman 

Sempra
                  Energy 

L-3
                  Communications -Titan  

Southern
                  California Edison 

Corporation 

United
                  Airlines 

Boeing 

Volkswagen
                  of America 

Cubic
                  Corporation 

Sales
        and Marketing   

DSG  

SYS
        markets its   engineering
        services directly to governmental agencies through its headquarters and regional
        offices. Each office responds to the needs of customers and looks for new
        business opportunities which match our technical skills and competency. We
        often
        team, either as a prime or subcontractor, with other companies when bidding
        on
        government contracts. We use multiple distribution channels to market our
        products and services including:  

Our
        website;  

Direct
        outbound sales efforts;  

Competitive bidding; and  

Strategic teaming arrangements and OEM s. 

During
        the past year we have supplemented this internal marketing approach through
        third party business development efforts based in Washington, D.C. These
        efforts
        are focused on longer term business development activities that will position
        SYS to compete on larger and more diverse programs that will be announced
        for
        competition over the next few years. A key to success in this strategy is
        to
        have a third party firm that is fully conversant in the entire   range
        of
        SYS product and services capabilities such that SYS can be positioned to
        bid on
        and be a competitive vendor for these services based programs. 

PSSIG

In
        July
        2005, SYS hired a Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing to develop
        a
        comprehensive sales and marketing program for all of the business capabilities
        within this group. To date much of the effort has been oriented towards (i)
        defining the markets and the target customers within those markets; (ii)
        prioritizing the current products and services in terms of which have near
        term
        market opportunities versus longer term opportunities; (iii) identifying
        strategic business partners that are already serving those markets and customers
        s  o
        that
        SYS can form strategic relationships with those firms that would provide
        access
        to the customers without SYS having to develop its own channels; (iv) developing
        sales and marketing collateral materials to promote and market these products
        and services and (v) creating visibility for SYS s solutions to prospective end
        users and obtaining their feedback as we begin the process of launching and
        rolling out products to the market. 

To
        this
        end, SYS has made expenditures in the past year to initiate building a sales
        and
        marketing organization which consisted principally of hiring personnel with
        sales and marketing expertise in our targeted markets and to help further
        develop and expand the selling capabilities and strategies of the acquired
        businesses.  

6 

Research, Engineering and
        Development Expenses  

During
        fiscal 2006 we have significantly increased our research, engineering and
        development (R D) activities associated with our newly developing product
        lines. R D expenses for the years ending June 30, 2006 and 2005 were $3.6
        million and $0.7 million, respectively. We did not incur any
        significant R D expenses in fiscal year 2004. 

During
        the past year we have invested in new product activities, including the
        following: 

Vigilys   .
                  Vigilys   
                is
                a software application providing  right-time  situational status and
                mission execution support for public safety providers. Vigilys is
                the
                foundation into which legacy systems and new capabilities are connected
                for interoperations.  Through this capability we intend   to
                integrate other SYS products, such as Logic s broadcast digital
                audio/video products, cVideo s video surveillance products, WebTech s
                e-learning solutions, our own proprietary TAPS decision support tools
                and
                SensorWorX based sensor technologies. 

The
                Assessment Profiling System (TAPS). TAPS is a software application
                for
                enhanced decision support in complex environments. TAPS is an advanced
                graphical visualization system coupled with a state space logic engine
                to
                provide a web-based information service for real-time assessment
                of key
                metrics that contribute to decision making.

In
        October 2005, SYS provided a beta version of  
        our     Vigilys   
        solution
        for evaluation, as part of the Emergency Response Management Network (ERMN),
        a
        distributed decision-making and situational awareness platform for the State
        of
        California, the Governors Office of Emergency Services (CA-OES) and California
        Department of Transportation (CALTRANS).  

In
        May
        2006, SYS released its new flagship family of software products: Vigilys
        Commander, Vigilys Conductor and Vigilys Responder Mobile that together make
        up
        the   Vigilys 
        solution  .
        The
  Vigilys   
        solution
        can be used to more effectively manage incident response operations and enable
        efficient sharing of time critical information between responders in the
        field
        and supporting operations centers, and between cooperating private, local,
        county, state, federal, and DoD agencies. 

In
        September 2006, SYS announced that Vigilys   TM   
        will be
        deployed in Delaware County, Pennsylvania as part of a pilot project under
        a
        contract worth approximately $0.5 million. Vigilys   TM   
        will be
        deployed in three Delaware County townships that include police, fire and
        emergency management. 

In
        January 2006, SYS announced an award for a Phase III Small Business Innovation
        Research (SBIR) Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (ID/IQ) contract
        by the
        Naval Air Systems Command Training Systems Division with a potential value
        of
        $75 million over five years. This contract, which can be used by all government
        agencies, provides an opportunity for matching SBIR program funding for the
        continuing application and commercialization of SYS  readiness assessment
        decision support products and specifically TAPS. 

Competitive
        Conditions  

Nearly
        all of our business is awarded through competitive procurements. The engineering
        and management services industry consists of hundreds of companies with which
        SYS competes and who can provide the same  
        or
        similar type of services. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater
        financial resources than we do. We obtain much of our business on the basis
        of
        proposals to new and existing customers. Competition usually centers on
        successful past performance, technical capability, management, personnel
        experience and price.   

SYS
        has
        many competitors who compete for the same customers. They are competent,
        experienced and continuously working to take work and projects away from
        SYS.
        These competitors range in size from small businesses to multi-billion dollar
        corporations. Much of our business is long term and continuous. We recognize
        that the SYS niche areas are desirable to other professional service firms,
        and
        we continuously seek to improve within these niches.  

Competition
        is intense in DoD contracting. Typically, work is contracted to experienced
        incumbents who have existing business relationships with the contracting
        organization. Breaking into new markets is difficult and time consuming.
        Though
        competitors have a difficult time competing in those areas where we are
        entrenched, we have also experienced difficulties breaking into new DoD markets,
        where competitors are entrenched. In DoD contracting, there is a blurred
        line
        between competitors and partners. Often companies are in competition in bidding
        for one contract, while they are cooperating team members in winning another.
        Generally, we face competition from three categories of competitors:

Large
        DoD Contractors.    Large
        DoD
        contractors, such as Lockheed-Martin, Northrop Grumman, L-3 Communications,
        Raytheon and others, represent serious competition to SYS in areas of systems
        engineering and in-service engineering. These and others compete in information
        systems and communications. Large management consulting firms compete with
        us
        for management consulting, strategic planning and information technology
        work.
        These companies also team with smaller companies. Companies in this category
        include Booz, Allen   Hamilton, Bearing Point and Accenture. These
        large companies can rely upon considerable monetary and labor resources to
        win
        government contracts. They are broadly focused in the types of work they
        will
        seek to obtain and are often teamed with small businesses and minority-owned
        businesses in subcontract arrangements.  

Small
        Business DoD Contractors.   
        Small
        business DoD contractors are generally more focused in their contracting
        strategies. They have fewer resources unless teamed with larger competitors.
        However, according to DoD policy, a certain portion of DoD work is set aside
        for
        small businesses, creating an environment of fierce competition among these
        companies for the allocated work. 

Small
        Disadvantaged DoD Contractors.   
        The U.S.
        Government, according to policy, also sets aside certain contracts for companies
        owned by members of statutorily identified disadvantaged groups. Because
        SYS
        does not qualify, it cannot compete in this arena, except as a subcontractor
        to
        qualified businesses. These qualified small disadvantaged businesses, however,
        are free to compete for all government issued contracts.  

Intellectual
        Property and Other Proprietary Rights   

SYS
        has
        filed for a number of copyright protections on several of its products. In
        addition, we have also registered a number of trademarks   to
        protect our intellectual property.  

In
        connection with the acquisition of the net assets of Xsilogy, SYS acquired
        two
        issued patents and numerous filed pending patents. The two issued patents
        are in
        the fields of flow sensors and sensing pressure. The patents pending are
        in the
        fields of sensors and sensor network architecture. 

We
        believe that our intellectual property is important to our success, and we
        try
        to protect it as described above and through the maintenance of trade secrets.
        We feel that name brand recognition will make our products and services stand
        out.  

However,
        the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate.
        Unauthorized parties may try to disclose, obtain or use our proprietary
        information, which could harm our business. Others may claim that we have
        violated their proprietary rights or infringed on their intellectual property.
        Any such claims could subject us to significant liability for damages and
        invalidate our proprietary rights. Any efforts to protect or defend our rights
        could be time-consuming and costly. Other parties may also independently
        develop
        similar or competing technology. 

7 

Environmental
        Laws  

The
        Company primarily provides services to government and industry.  The
        Company also builds products, primarily through integrating components developed
        by third parties but does not manufacture any products at this time. Therefore,
        environmental laws have not materially affected the Company. 

Employees

On
        June
        30, 2006, we employed 404 full-time employees and 45 part-time employees.
        None
        of these employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement, and
        there
        is no union representation within SYS. We believe our employee relations
        are
        good.  

Code
        of Ethics  

We
        have
        adopted a code of business conduct and ethics for all employees, including
        our
        Finance department and those with financial oversight responsibility, including
        our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, known as the Code
        of
        Ethics pursuant to Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Code
        of
        Ethics is available on our website at    www.systechnologies.com.  

We
        intend
        to disclose any amendment to, and any waiver from, a provision of the Code
        of
        Ethics that applies to the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer
        or
        any other executive officer and that relates to any element of the Code of
        Ethics definition enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, on
        Form 8-K, within five business days following the date of such amendment or
        waiver. 

Available
        Information  

Our
        Internet address is    www.systechnologies.com   .
        We make
        available free of charge through our internet site all of our reports, including
        10-K, 10-KSB, 10-Q, 10-QSB, 8-K and 14A, and any amendments to those reports
        filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
        (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is
        electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

Cautionary
        Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

All
        statements other than those of historical facts included in this Annual Report
        on Form 10-K, including those related to our financial outlook, liquidity,
        goals, business strategy, project plans and objectives of management for
        future
        operating results, are forward -looking statements with in the meaning of
        Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities
        Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements can be identified by
        the
        use of words such as "intends, anticipates, believes, estimates, projects,
        forecasts, expects, plans and proposes." We believe that the expectations
        reflected in these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable
        assumptions. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause
        actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
        These
        include, among others, the cautionary statements contained in Item 1A "Risk
        Factors" and Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
        and Results of Operations" contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form
        10-K. 

Item
        1A. RISK FACTORS  

We
        urge you to consider the following risk factors and all other information
        contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June
        30,
        2006, and other reports and filings made with the Securities and Exchange
        Commission in evaluating our business and prospects. Risks and uncertainties,
        in
        addition to those we describe below, that are not presently known to us or
        that
        we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations.
        If
        any of the following risks occur, our business and financial results could
        be
        harmed, and the price of our common stock could decline.  You should also
        refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
        including our consolidated financial statements and related
        notes.  

Risks
        Related to Our Business  

We
        depend upon a single customer, the U.S. Government, for the majority of our
        revenues, and a decrease in its demand for our services, or pricing
        modifications by prime contractors, might harm our operating
        results.    

Currently,
        a substantial part of our business is work we do for the U.S. Government.
        Even
        though the amount of business we receive from this customer is growing and
        we
        have negotiated multiple-year contracts that include option and award years,
        budget changes in Congress or the U.S. Government could have a significant
        and
        adverse effect on us. In addition, we do not know whether the U.S. Government
        will exercise each option or award year available on a contract. Depending
        on
        the contract, we may perform as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor
        to
        another prime contractor. In cases where we perform as a subcontractor, we
        may
        be subject to price modifications required by the prime contractor. Such
        price
        modifications, if not mitigated by a corresponding reduction of costs, could
        have a negative impact on our profitability. 

A
        significant number of our customers are government agencies which are subject
        to
        unique political and budgetary constraints and have special contracting
        requirements that may affect our ability to obtain other new government
        customers.   

A
        significant number of our customers are government agencies, principally
        DoD
        agencies. These agencies often do not set their own budgets and therefore
        have
        little control over the amount of money they can spend. In addition, these
        agencies experience political pressure that may dictate the manner in which
        they
        spend money. Due to political and budgetary processes and other scheduling
        delays that frequently occur in the contract or bidding process, some government
        agency orders may be canceled or substantially delayed, and the receipt of
        revenues or payments may be substantially delayed. 

In
        addition, future sales to government agencies will depend on our ability
        to meet
        government contracting requirements, certain of which may be onerous or
        impossible to meet, resulting in our inability to obtain particular contracts.
        Common requirements in government contracts include bonding, provisions
        permitting the purchasing agency to modify or terminate the contract at-will
        and
        without penalty and provisions permitting the agency to perform investigations
        or audits of our business practices. 

The
        U.S. Government has a program that encourages and sometimes requires large
        prime
        contractors to use small businesses. The U.S. Government restricts the
        competition on some contracts to qualifying small businesses. Some of our
        contracts and subcontracts have been awarded based on our eligibility as
        a small
        business. The definition of a small business depends on the type of product
        or
        service being provided. The U.S. Government uses North American Industry
        Classification System (NAICS) codes to classify the small business size
        standards for all industries. One of our primary NAICS codes was for engineering
        services, and beginning in fiscal year 2005, we no longer qualified as a
        small
        business using this code. However, we still qualify as a small business using
        several other NAICS codes. In addition, the small business contracts currently
        held by us do not terminate as a result of our no longer qualifying as a
        small
        business under any specific NAICS Code, and any option years on these contracts
        are also not affected by a change in small business status. Nevertheless,
        it is
        possible that our future revenues may be adversely impacted by our recent
        growth
        and consequent failure to qualify as a small business under certain NAICS
        codes. 

8 

Our
        inability to adequately retain or protect our employees, customer relationships
        and proprietary technology could harm our ability to
        compete.   

Our
        future success and ability to compete depends in part upon our employees
        and
        their customer relationships, as well as our proprietary technology and
        trademarks, which we attempt to protect with a combination of patent, copyright,
        trademark and trade secret claims, as well as with our confidentiality
        procedures and employee contract provisions. These legal protections afford
        only
        limited protection and are time-consuming and expensive to obtain and/or
        maintain. Further, despite our efforts, we may not prevent third parties
        from
        soliciting our employees or customers or infringing upon or misappropriating
        our
        intellectual property. Our employees, customer relationships and intellectual
        property may not provide us with a competitive advantage adequate to prevent
        competitors from entering the markets for our products and services.
        Additionally, our competitors could independently develop non-infringing
        technologies that are competitive with, and equivalent or superior to, our
        technology. Monitoring infringement and/or misappropriation of intellectual
        property can be difficult, and it is possible that we would not detect an
        infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Even if we were
        to
        detect an infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights, litigation
        to enforce these rights would be costly and would cause us to divert financial
        and other resources from our normal business operations. 

The
        departure of certain key personnel could affect the financial condition of
        SYS
        due to the loss of their expertise and customer
        relationships.   

Certain
        key employees are intimately involved in our business and have day-to-day
        relationships with critical customers. Competition for highly skilled business,
        product development, technical and other personnel is intense, and we may
        not be
        successful in recruiting new personnel or in retaining our existing personnel.
        A
        failure on our part to retain the services of these key personnel could have
        a
        material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.
        We do
        not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees with the exception
        of our CEO. 

We
        face numerous competitors, and as a result, we may not get the business we
        seek.   

We
        have
        many competitors with comparable characteristics and capabilities that compete
        for the same group of customers. Our competitors are competent and experienced
        and are continuously working to take projects away from us. Many of our
        competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources
        than we do. Our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected
        by the
        ability of these competitors to devote greater resources to the sale and
        marketing of their products and services than are available to us. 

We
          must comply with numerous U.S. Government
          regulations.   

As
        a
        government contractor, we must comply with, and we are affected by, various
        government regulations. Changes in these regulations could affect our operating
        results, and we could be subject to penalties for failure to comply with
        them.
        Among the most significant of these regulations are: 

The
                Federal Acquisition Regulations and agency regulations supplemental
                to the
                Federal Acquisition Regulations, which comprehensively regulate the
                formation, administration and performance of government
                contracts; 

the
                Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure
                of
                all cost and pricing data in connection with certain types of
                contracts; 

government
                cost accounting standards, which impose accounting requirements that
                govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based government
                contracts; and 

laws,
                regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination
                of
                information classified for national security purposes and the exportation
                of certain products and technical data. 

Accuracy
        of indirect billing rates is critical.    

Our
        provisional indirect billing rates are approved at least annually by the
        Defense
        Contract Management Agency (DCMA) after being reviewed by the Defense Contract
        Audit Agency (DCAA).  These rates can differ from our actual indirect
        rates.  We budget to have our actual indirect rates as close as possible to
        our government approved indirect rates at fiscal year end.  Throughout the
        year, management assesses how these rates compare to forecasted rates for
        the
        year.  If a variance is expected to exceed the amount to be billed,
        provisions for such variance are recognized at that time. 

For
        interim reporting purposes, SYS applies overhead and selling, general and
        administrative expenses as a percentage of direct contract costs based on
        annual
        budgeted indirect expense rates. To the extent actual expenses for an interim
        period are greater than the budgeted rates, the variance is deferred if
        management believes it is probable that the variance will be absorbed by
        planned
        contract activity. This probability assessment includes projecting whether
        future indirect costs will be sufficiently less than the annual budgeted
        rates
        or can be absorbed by seeking increased billing rates applied on cost-plus-fee
        contracts. At the end of each interim reporting period, management assesses
        the
        recoverability of any amount deferred to determine if any portion should
        be
        charged to expense. In assessing the recoverability of variances deferred,
        management takes into consideration estimates of the amount of direct labor
        and
        other direct costs to be incurred in future interim periods, the feasibility
        of
        modifications for provisional billing rates, and the likelihood that an approved
        increase in provisional billing rates can be passed along to a customer.
        If
        assumptions about the probability of recovering deferred variances change,
        deferred amounts could be expensed and such expenses could have a material
        adverse effect on the results of operations. 

We
        rely on subcontractors whose performance could have an adverse impact on
        our
        relationships with our customers and our operating
        results.   

We
        regularly employ subcontractors to assist us in satisfying our contractual
        obligations. We could have disputes with subcontractors concerning a number
        of
        issues, including the quality and timeliness of their work, a decision on
        our
        part not to extend task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract,
        or
        our hiring of former personnel of a subcontractor. A failure by one or more
        of
        our subcontractors to satisfactorily deliver agreed-upon services on a timely
        basis could materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our
        obligations as a prime contractor. In extreme cases, such subcontractor
        performance deficiencies could result in the government terminating our contract
        for default. A default termination could expose us to liability for excess
        costs
        of procurement by the government and have a material adverse effect on our
        ability to compete for future contracts and task orders, which in turn could
        also have a material impact on our results of operations. 

9 

If
        we are unable to obtain or maintain security clearances, we may not be able
        to
        perform certain work.   

If
        we
        cannot obtain the necessary security clearances, we may not be able to perform
        classified work for the government and our revenues may be adversely affected.
        Certain government contracts require our facilities and some of our employees
        to
        maintain security clearances. If we lose or are unable to obtain security
        clearances required for a particular contract, the client can terminate the
        contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, to the
        extent we cannot obtain the required security clearances for our employees
        working on a contract, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from that
        contract. Any such reduction in revenue, if not replaced with revenue from
        other
        contracts, could seriously harm our operating results. 

Security
        breaches in sensitive government systems could result in the loss of clients
        and
        negative publicity. Many of the systems we develop involve managing and
        protecting information involved in national security and other sensitive
        government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause
        serious harm to our business, could result in negative publicity and could
        prevent us from having further access to such critically sensitive systems
        or
        other similarly sensitive areas for other government clients. 

There
        are risks associated with our planned growth, such as a possible inability
        to
        manage our growth.   

We
        plan
        to grow our revenues and profits by adding to our existing customer base
        through
        organic growth and by the acquisition of other government services and
        government or commercial technology related companies. Over the past five
        years
        we have hired senior management personnel capable of establishing new business
        units within SYS. Rapid expansion through internal growth has required
        additional capital resources. We plan to continue this approach to building
        our
        business. There can be no assurances that such an approach will result in
        profitability in the future. 

We
        believe that we can also grow through the acquisition of other government
        services companies and government or commercial technology related companies
        that have product offerings which may be sold to both commercial and government
        customers. The acquisition of other companies and growing those businesses
        is
        uncertain and contains a variety of business risks, including: integration,
        cultural differences, the retention of key personnel, competition, protection
        of
        intellectual property, industry changes and others. We intend to attempt
        to
        expand our operations through the acquisition of other companies. Acquisitions
        and attempted acquisitions may place a strain on our limited personnel,
        financial and other resources. Our ability to manage this growth, should
        it
        occur, will require expansion of our capabilities and personnel. We may not
        be
        able to find qualified personnel to fill additional positions or be able
        to
        successfully manage a larger organization. Further, we intend to finance
        these
        transactions through a combination of cash and/or equity and debt financing
        transactions. Our ability to use our stock as an acquisition currency may
        be
        limited because the trading volume in our stock has been low, our stock price
        has been volatile, and our stock may not maintain a price sufficient to support
        transactions without excessive dilution. 

Our
          future results could be adversely affected by various significant non-cash
          charges, which could impair our ability to achieve or maintain profitability
          in
          the future.   

We
        have
        recorded significant non-cash charges in the past and will incur significant
        non-cash charges in the future related to the amortization of acquired
        technology and intangible assets from past acquisitions. We may also incur
        non-cash charges in future periods related to impairments of long-lived assets.
        During fiscal 2006, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of approximately
        $1.3 million. To achieve profitability in the future, we must grow our revenue
        sufficiently to cover our business expenses. Our failure to achieve
        profitability in the future could cause our stock price to decline and may
        lead
        to additional impairment charges.  

We
        have very limited funds upon which to rely for adjusting to business variations
        and for growing new businesses.    

While
        we
        are likely to look for new funding to assist in the acquisition of businesses,
        it is uncertain whether such funding will be available. Our substantial reliance
        on our revolving line of credit facility with Comerica Bank - California
        imposes
        certain limitations on us, such as complying with financial covenants. If
        we are
        to grow and expand our operations, we will need to raise significant amounts
        of
        additional capital. We may not be successful in raising additional capital,
        or
        if we are successful, that we will be able to raise capital on reasonable
        terms.
        If we do raise additional capital, our existing shareholders may incur
        substantial and immediate dilution. The net loss reported for the fiscal
        year
        ended June 30, 2006 may further impact our ability to raise
        capital. 

We
        may violate financial covenants under our line of credit which could have
        a
        material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.

SYS
        must
        maintain certain financial covenants, including tangible effective net worth,
        current assets to current liabilities, quarterly net income, ratio of Senior
        debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)
        and the ratio of cash flow to the current portion of long-term debt. As of
        June
        30, 2006 the Company was in technical default of the financial covenants
        related
        to minimum quarterly net income, the ratio of cash flow to the current portion
        of long term debt, and the ratio of Senior debt to EBITDA. The lender has
        granted a waiver of these covenants for the measurement period ended June
        30,
        2006. On September 27, 2006, the lender amended the terms of the line of
        credit
        to eliminate the minimum quarterly net income covenant, current assets to
        current liabilities covenant and ratio of Senior debt to EBITDA covenant
        and
        modify the tangible effective net worth covenant and cash flow coverage ratio
        covenant. We anticipate we will be in compliance with the modified covenants
        through the expiration date of the credit facility based on our operating
        budget
        for fiscal 2007. We intend to renew or replace the credit facility prior to the
        expiration date. If we are not able to remain in compliance with the financial
        covenants, the lender may require the Company to pay the outstanding balance
        and
        cancel the credit facility which would have a material impact on our financial
        condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

There
        are a large number of shares that are available for future sale, and the
        sale of
        these shares may depress the market price of our common
        stock.   

As
        of
        June 30, 2006, we had issued 15,352,622 shares of common stock. Up to 1,924,050
        shares of common stock were issuable upon the exercise of employee stock
        options
        at prices ranging from $1.23 to $4.90 per share, 687,522 shares were issuable
        upon the conversion of convertible notes from the February 2004 Offering
        at
        $2.20 per share, 168,563 shares were issuable upon the conversion of convertible
        notes from the acquisition of Polexis at $2.32 per share, 78,400 shares were
        issuable upon the conversion of the convertible note payable from the Antin
        acquisition at $2.50 per share, 868,056 shares were issuable upon the conversion
        of convertible notes from the February 2006 Offering at $3.60 per share,
        313,401
        shares were issuable upon the exercise of warrants issued in connection with
        the
        May 27, 2005 Offering at $2.50 per share, 50,000 shares were issuable upon
        the
        exercise of warrants issued in connection with the acquisition of the Lomasoft
        technology at $3.85 per share, 100,000 shares were conditionally issuable
        upon
        the exercise of warrants issued in connection with the acquisition of the
        Lomasoft technology at $3.87 per share, 110,000 shares were issuable upon
        the
        exercise of warrants issued in connection with various transactions at $4.00
        per
        share, 20,000 shares were issuable upon the exercise of warrants issued for
        services rendered to SmallCap Corporate Advisors, LLC at $2.44 per share
        and up
        to 818,750 shares contingently issuable under earn-out provisions in various
        acquisition transactions. Shares issued upon any conversion of our outstanding
        convertible notes or upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants
        could
        adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 

There
        is a limited market for our common stock which could impact your ability
        to sell
        your shares.    

Our
        common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange. Trading in our common
        stock has been sporadic, and at present, there is a limited market for the
        stock. We cannot predict whether a stronger market will develop. Even if
        such a
        market does develop, it may not be sustained. There are no analysts currently
        covering the Company. 

10 

Future
        sales of our common stock by existing shareholders under Rule 144 could decrease
        the trading price of our common stock.    

As
        of
        June 30, 2006, a total of 7,120,981 shares of our outstanding common stock
        were
 restricted securities  and could be sold in the public markets only in
        compliance with Rule 144 adopted under the Securities Act of 1933 or other
        applicable exemptions from registration. Rule 144 provides that a person
        holding
        restricted securities for a period of one year may thereafter sell, in brokerage
        transactions, an amount not exceeding in any three-month period the greater
        of
        either (i) 1% of the issuer s outstanding common stock or (ii) the
        average weekly trading volume in the securities during a period of four calendar
        weeks immediately preceding the sale. Persons who are not affiliated with
        the
        issuer and who have held their restricted securities for at least two years
        are
        not subject to the volume limitation. Possible or actual sales of our common
        stock by present shareholders under Rule 144 could have a depressive effect
        on
        the price of our common stock. 

Our
        directors, executive officers and affiliated persons beneficially own a
        significant amount of our stock, and their interests could conflict with
        yours.   

As
        of
        June 30, 2006, our directors, executive officers and         affiliated
        persons beneficially own approximately 34.2% of our common stock, including
        stock options exercisable within 60 days of June 30, 2006. As a result, our
        executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have a significant
        ability to: 

Elect
                or defeat the election of our directors; 

amend
                or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or
                bylaws; 

effect
                or prevent a merger; sale of assets or other corporate transactions;
                and 

control
                the outcome of any other matters submitted to the shareholders for
                vote. 

As
        a
        result of their ownership and positions, our directors, executive officers,
        and
        affiliated persons, collectively, are able to significantly influence all
        matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors
        and
        approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, sales of
        significant amounts of shares held by our directors and executive officers
        and
        affiliated persons, or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect
        the
        market price of our common stock. Management s stock ownership may discourage a
        potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to
        obtain
        control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our
        shareholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. 

11 

Item
        1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

        Not
        applicable. 

Item
        2. PROPERTIES  

As
        of
        June 30, 2006, we have a total of approximately 89,000 square feet of office
        space under various operating leases at various locations in California,
        Maryland and Virginia, including approximately 15,000 square feet of office
        space at our headquarters in San Diego, California. These leases expire at
        various dates through 2011. (See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
        Statements.) We believe the existing space is presently adequate to support
        our
        operations. 

Item
        3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

We
        are
        involved in legal actions in the normal course of business, including audits
        and
        investigations by various governmental agencies that result from our work
        as a
        governmental contractor. We are named as defendants in legal proceedings
        from
        time to time and we may assert claims from time to time. We are not currently
        involved in any litigation. 

Item
        4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

         None.  

PART
        II  

Item
        5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
        PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

Since
        January 3, 2005, our Common Stock has been traded on the American Stock Exchange
        under the symbol  SYS . Prior to that date, our Common Stock was traded in the
        over-the-counter market. The ranges of   high
        and
        low quotations during our two most recent fiscal years are as
        follows: 

Since
        January 3, 2005, the source for these quotations was the prices quoted by
        the
        American Stock Exchange. The sources of these quotations through the end
        of the
        second quarter in 2005 were stock brokerages that made a market in our stock
        and
        other brokerages representing both bidders and sellers. 

As
        of
  September
        15, 2006, there were approximately 708 holders of record of our Common
        Stock. 

No
        cash
        dividends have been paid on our Common Stock during our two most recent fiscal
        years and SYS does not intend to pay cash dividends on its Common Stock in
        the
        immediate future. 

12 

Item
        6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

Our
        selected consolidated financial data for each of the five fiscal years for
        the
        period ended June 30, 2006 is set forth below. The selected financial data
        for
        each of the years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2006, and as of
        June
        30, 2006 and June 30, 2005, are derived from the Consolidated Financial
        Statements that have been included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This
        data
        should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements
        and
        related notes thereto and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
        Condition and Results of Operations  included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
        Form 10-K. The selected financial data as of June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
        the
        years ended June 30, 2003 and 2002 are derived from the Consolidated Financial
        Statements that have not been included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(1)
        See
        Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding
        acquisitions. 

13 

Item
        7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
        OPERATIONS  

Cautionary
        Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

To
        the extent that the information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
        discusses financial projections, information or expectations about our business
        plans, results of operations, products or markets, or otherwise makes statements
        about future events, such statements are forward-looking. Such forward-looking
        statements can be identified by the use of words such as  intends, anticipates,
        believes, estimates, projects, forecasts, expects, plans and proposes .

We
        believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements
        are
        reasonable. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated
        in
        these forward-looking statements and other forward-looking statements made
        elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a result of specified factors,
        including those set forth in Item 1A-Risk Factors.   

The
        following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results
        of
        operations should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
        Statements and the related notes and other financial information included
        elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.    

Overview  

Revenues
        and profits for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 were significantly impacted
        by three major themes. First, we experienced funding delays which resulted
        in
        decreased revenues for certain programs. Second, we made internal investments
        in
        product development and marketing and experienced delays in bringing certain
        products to market compared to original plans. We anticipate that some of
        these
        projects will develop into fully marketable products in the near term and
        will
        begin generating revenues. We may decide to make further investments into
        other
        product development based opportunities. One such area of focus will likely
        be
        efforts to fully integrate the capabilities of our broadcast digital
        audio/video, video surveillance, TAPS and e-learning with our   Vigilys   TM   
        solution
        offering. Third, we recorded asset impairment charges of approximately $1.3
        million and inventory write-downs of approximately $0.2 million. 

Our
        business areas that encompass   engineering
        and program management services   have
        been
        in a continuous slow decline for the past five years while during this same
        period our C4ISR business has steadily grown. We anticipate that this trend
        will
        continue as the DoD continues to implement their Information Transformation
        strategy focusing on enhanced information technology and communications systems,
        data acquisition and real time situational awareness on such programs as
        Composable FORCEnet and Battle Force Composite Network and Integrated Autonomous
        Network Management. 

Despite
        the trend of lower revenues related to our   engineering
        and program management services  ,
        we
        believe there are potential growth opportunities that still exist in the
        following areas: (i) increasing usage of technology to reduce ongoing support
        costs, (ii) adoption by the Government of process improvement to achieve
        cost
        reductions, (iii) winning additional business by charging lower prices per
        hour,
        and (iv) capturing a greater market share in our current customer base by
        providing a wider range of services and products. However, some of these
        approaches may result in lower margins for SYS in the future.  

Our
        cost
        of revenues are affected by the mix of contract types (cost reimbursement,
        fixed-price or time and materials) as well as the mix of prime contracts
        versus
        subcontracts and are additionally affected by the mix of product sales revenue
        verses services revenue. Significant portions of our contracts are time and
        materials and cost reimbursement contracts. We are reimbursed for labor hours
        at
        negotiated hourly billing rates and other direct expenses under time and
        materials contracts and reimbursed for all actual costs, plus a fee, or profit,
        under cost reimbursement contracts. The financial risks under these contracts
        are generally lower than those associated with other types of contracts,
        and
        margins are also typically lower than those on fixed-price contracts. The
        U.S.
        Government also has awarded us fixed-price contracts. Such contracts carry
        higher financial risks because we must deliver the products, systems or contract
        services at a cost below the fixed contract value in order to earn a profit.

The
        following table shows our revenues from each of these types of contracts
        as a
        percentage of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006,
        2005
        and 2004:  

The
        following table sets forth certain items, including consolidated revenues
        for
        the fiscal years ending June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004: 

14 

Revenues
        by reportable segment for years ending June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were
        as
        follows: 

Results
        of Operations  

Fiscal
        Year 2006 vs. Fiscal Year 2005  

Revenues.  
        Revenues increased by approximately $10.1 million or 22% to $55.9 million
        during
        fiscal 2006. The increase in revenues was primarily attributable to the
        acquisitions of Antin, WebTech, Logic, cVideo and RBIS, which collectively
        accounted for $8.3 million of the revenue increase during the year. Additional
        increases of approximately $5.7 million were derived from support of C4ISR
        initiatives such as the FORCEnet Assessments and Decision Support Systems
        and
        Integrated Autonomous Network Management. These total increases of approximately
        $14.0 million were offset by a net $4.0 million reduction in revenues related
        to
        our   engineering
        and program management services  ,
        all of
        which were due to planned decreases in activities by those customers and
        are
        consistent with management s expectations of the general trends in our business.

As
        previously discussed, revenues related to programs previously captured in
        the
        DSG, where the activities were focused on public safety and security, have
        been
        included in the PSSIG to reflect the nature of the business being performed.
        The
        growth in the PSSIG operating segment is primarily attributable to growth
        from
        the recent acquisitions of Logic and cVideo which together added revenues
        of
        approximately $3.0 million in fiscal 2006 and growth in the following programs:
        (i) Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) Interoperable Communications
        Technology Assistance (ITP) focused on interoperable communications for public
        safety; (ii) the Joint Warning and Reporting Network (JWARN), a program that
        provides the military services near real-time operational capabilities to
        collect, analyze and report nuclear, biological and chemical agent detections,
        identification, location and warning information; (iii) Composable FORCEnet
        used
        in various homeland security related scenarios including Hurricane Katrina
        relief efforts and other first responder situations. All of these programs
        have
        experienced growth in revenues over the prior year. 

Cost
        of revenues.   Cost of revenues include all direct costs such as
        labor, materials and subcontractor costs.  Costs of revenues also include
        indirect overhead costs such as facilities, indirect labor, fringe benefits
        and
        other discretionary costs which are pooled and allocated to contracts on
        a pro
        rata basis. Generally, changes in direct costs are correlated to changes
        in
        revenue as resources are consumed in the production of that
        revenue. 

As
        a
        percentage of revenue, cost of revenues were 81.4% and 81.8%for fiscal 2006
        and
        2005, respectively, resulting in gross margins of 18.6% and 18.2% for fiscal
        2006 and 2005, respectively. Gross margins are affected by the mix of contract
        types as well as the mix of contracts in which we act as a prime contractor
        versus a subcontractor and are additionally affected by the mix of product
        sales
        revenue verses services revenue. During fiscal 2006, the percentage of cost-plus
        fee type contracts, which usually carry lower risk and lower margins, increased
        7%, offset by (i) the percentage of contracts in which we act as a prime
        contractor, which generally earn higher margins, which increased 4% during
        fiscal 2006 and (ii) increased product sales in fiscal 2006, which also
        generally earn higher gross margins than services revenue. 

Selling,
        general and administrative expenses .  Selling, general and
        administrative expenses (SG A) include labor, fringe benefits, sales and
        marketing, bid and proposal (B P) and other indirect costs. During fiscal
        2006, SG A increased by approximately $2.7 million or 56% over the prior
        year. These increases were attributable to the following: (i) increased spending
        for our infrastructure support consisting principally of labor and fringe
        expenses of approximately $744,000 to accommodate the increased scope of
        business operations from recent growth and acquisitions; (ii) increased spending
        for sales and marketing efforts consisting principally of labor and fringe
        expenses of approximately $679,000; (iii) increased amortization expense
        attributable to acquisitions of approximately $516,000; and (iv) increased
        audit, legal and other professional related expenses of approximately $319,000.
        We anticipate that we will likely maintain this level of SG A expenditures
        as we expand our sales and marketing efforts, develop new business lines
        and
        pursue acquisitions.  

Research,
          engineering and development expenses.  Research, engineering and
          development (R D) expenses include burdened labor and material costs to
          develop new products as well as maintaining and enhancing our existing
          product
          capabilities. R D expenses for fiscal year 2006 were approximately $3.6
          million as compared to approximately $0.7 million in the prior year. The
          increase in these expenses was partially attributable to a strategic decision
          at
          the beginning of the fiscal year regarding development and enhancing existing
          technology and also R D expenses incurred as a result of the acquisition of
          Logic and cVideo.. We anticipate that we will maintain this level of R D for
          future periods as we continue to develop new products.  

Impairment
          Charges.  During the fourth quarter management made a decision to
          suspend efforts to sell or further develop technology associated with SensorWorX
          products, which are included in the operations of the PSSIG segment. As
          a
          result, we assessed the impact of this decision on our ability to recover
          the
          carrying value of our long-lived assets in this segment and also considered
          the
          impact during our annual impairment analysis of goodwill.  

As
          a
          result of this assessment, we identified an impairment in the PSSIG segment
          of
          approximating $1.2 million of which, $0.5 million was a reduction of identified
          intangible assets, $0.6 million was a reduction to goodwill and $0.1 million
          was
          related to the write down of certain fixed assets. In addition, we recorded
          an
          impairment charge of $0.1 million to write down the carrying value of the
          Forceviz software purchased in September 2005 based on an evaluation which
          indicated that future cash flows would not be sufficient to recover the
          carrying
          value of the asset. The total amount recorded for impairment during the
          fourth
          quarter was approximately $1.3 million. 

In
          conjunction with management s decision to suspend efforts to sell products
          related to SensorWorX , we considered the recoverability of other assets
          related
          to the PSSIG segment and determined that an adjustment was necessary to
          reduce
          the carrying value of related inventory to the lower of cost or market,
          which
          resulted in a charge to cost of sales approximating $0.2 million. 

Income
        (loss) from operations .  The Company incurred a loss from
        operations of ($2.1) million as compared to income from operations of $2.8
        million in the prior year. This decrease in income from operations is primarily
        due to the $1.3 million impairment charge, discussed above, as well as increases
        in SG A expenses, and R D expenses noted above. 

Income
        (loss) from operations for the current fiscal year includes total share-based
        compensation expense of approximately $527,000, which included non-cash expenses
        associated with stock options granted to employees and the employee stock
        purchase plan and additional shares issued to former Antin shareholders.
        The
        $527,000 was classified in the accompanying Statement of Operations in the
        category of cost applicable to the employee labor cost. The recognition of
        these
        share-based compensation expenses is in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R),
        which
        was adopted as of the beginning of the current fiscal year. 

15 

Other
        (income) expense . Other (income) expense decreased $65,000, or 15%, to
        $369,000. The decrease is due to a net increase in interest expense related
        to
        the issuance of approximately $3.1 million in convertible notes in February
        2006, partially offset by the conversion of convertible notes during the
        fiscal
        year. The increase in interest expense was offset by increased interest
        income earned on the cash proceeds from the convertible notes and equity
        securities issued in February 2006 while the cash proceeds remained in interest
        bearing accounts prior to distribution. 

Income
        tax (benefit) provision.  The income tax (benefit) provision for fiscal
        2006 was ($688,000) versus $953,000 in fiscal 2005. The primary difference
        in
        our effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 versus fiscal 2005 relates to
        nondeductible share-based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS
        No.
        123 (R) at the beginning of fiscal 2006. 

Fiscal
        Year 2005 vs. Fiscal Year 2004  

Revenues.  
        For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, our revenues increased 31% to $45.8
        million from $34.9 million for the same period in 2004. The increase in revenues
        was primarily attributable to the acquisitions of Polexis and Antin which
        together provided $10.3 million of the $10.9 million in net revenue growth.
        The
        remaining net increase was derived from increases in support of C4ISR
        initiatives such as the Composable FORCEnet and Battle Force Composite Network
        which grew by $3.2 million or 36% over the prior year. These increases were
        offset by a net $2.6 million reduction in revenues related to our   engineering
        and program management services  ,
        primarily in the NMCI, UNREP and MSS programs, all of which were due to planned
        decreases in activities by those customers. 

Cost
        of revenues .  Cost of revenues include all direct costs such as
        labor, materials and subcontractor costs.  Cost of revenues also include
        indirect overhead costs such as facilities, indirect labor, fringe benefits
        and
        other discretionary costs which are pooled and allocated to contracts on
        a pro
        rata basis. Generally, changes in direct costs are correlated to changes
        in
        revenue as resources are consumed in the production of that
        revenue. 

As
        a
        percentage of revenue, cost of revenue was 81.8% for 2005 as compared to
        82.4%
        for the same period in 2004 resulting in gross margins of 18.2% and 17.6%
        respectively.   The increase in margins is due to a slightly higher
        composition of direct labor costs in 2004 which carries a higher margin than
        other contract costs. 

Selling,
        general and administrative expenses.   Selling, general and
        administrative expenses (SG A) include labor, fringe benefits, sales and
        marketing, bid and proposal (B P) and other indirect costs. Although the
        actual dollar amounts of SG A have increased by approximately $0.8 million
        from $4.1 million to $4.9 million, G A has decreased as a percentage of
        revenues due to the growth in revenues. The spending increase is due to
        investments made to expand our infrastructure to accommodate the increased
        scope
        of business operations from recent growth and acquisitions.  

Research,
          engineering and development expenses . Research, engineering and
          development (R D) expenses include burdened labor and material costs to
          develop new products as well as maintaining and enhancing our existing
          product
          capabilities. R D expenses for fiscal year 2005 were $0.7 million. We did
          not incur any material R D expenses in fiscal 2004. The increase in R D
          expenses in fiscal 2005 was primarily the result of the acquisition of
          Xsilogy
          in fiscal 2005. 

Income
        from operations.   Income from operations as a percentage of
        revenues increased from 5.8% in the prior year to 6.1% in the current year.
        This
        increase is primarily due to the 31% revenue growth which results in the
        reduction of SG A costs as a percentage of revenues. 

Other
        (income) expense.  Other expense increased $208,000, or 92.0% to
        $434,000. The increase in other expense primarily related to increased interest
        expense, which increased to $474,000 in 2005 from $262,000 in 2004. This
        increase is primarily attributable to increased interest expense from the
        convertible notes issued by the Company in fiscal 2004 through a private
        placement and in connection with the Polexis acquisition. The increase is
        further attributable to the accretion of a debt discount related to the private
        placement.  

Income
        tax provision.  The income tax provision increased 16% to $953,000 in
        2005 from $825,000 in 2004. The effective tax rate was 40.4% for 2005 versus
        45.4% in the same period in 2004. The prior year s tax rate was higher due to a
        change in estimate for tax refunds receivables and prepaid taxes. 

Dividends.
        There were no dividends authorized or paid in 2005. For 2004, there was $4,000
        in dividends paid on our preference stock.  

16 

LIQUIDITY
        AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Historically,
        we have financed our operations and met our capital expenditure requirements
        through cash flows provided from operations, long-term borrowings (including
        the
        sale of convertible notes), sales of equity securities and more recently
        through
        use of our line of credit. The significant components of our working capital
        are
        liquid assets such as cash, trade accounts receivable, inventories and income
        tax receivable, reduced by accounts payable, accrued expenses, line of credit,
        the current portion of our term note, the current portion of our convertible
        notes payable, the current portion of our deferred tax liabilities and deferred
        revenue. Working capital was $7.3 million at June 30, 2006 compared to $8.1
        million at June 30, 2005. The significant changes to working capital
        during 2006 were as follows: 

We
                funded our acquisitions primarily from debt/equity financing and
                partially
                from working capital.  The opening balance sheets of the acquired
                businesses increased current assets by $3.1 million (primarily consisting
                of $2.1 million of accounts receivable and $0.8 million of inventory),
                excluding the use of cash for the acquisition, and increased current
                liabilities by $1.4 million (primarily consisting of $0.7 million
                of
                accrued payroll).  The $10 million of cash used for the acquisitions
                was partially offset by $1 million from the line of credit used for
                the
                acquisition and the use of proceeds from the private placement in
                February
                2006. 

$1
                million of the proceeds from the line of credit that was used for
                the
                acquisition of RBIS was subsequently converted to an installment
                note
                payable over four years. 

Although
        the $0.7 million of the current portion of convertible debt at June 30, 2005
        was
        converted into common stock during 2006, an additional $1.5 million of
        convertible notes became current during the year. 

Cash
        and
        cash equivalents decreased $1.4 million during fiscal 2006 to $2.1 million,
        as
        of June 30, 2006. The decrease was primarily due to the following: 

$10.4
                million in payments for acquisitions; 

$0.9
                million in expenditures for property and
                equipment. 

Offset
        by: 

$3.1
                million in proceeds from the issuance of convertible
                notes; 

$3.0
                million in proceeds from common stock issuance in a private placement;

$1.9
                million in proceeds from borrowings under our line of
                credit; 

$1.2
                million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options and warrants;
                and 

$0.7
                million in proceeds from issuing stock under the employee stock purchase
                plan. 

As
        of
        June 30, 2006, SYS had convertible notes payable totaling $5.2 million
        consisting of $1.5 million remaining from a $3.2 million private placement
        completed during 2004 (excluding $28,000 balance of note discount), $391,000
        issued in connection with the acquisition of Polexis, $196,000 issued in
        connection with the Antin acquisition, and $3.1 million issued in conjunction
        with the private placement in February 2006. Other than the $3.60 conversion
        rate on the notes payable issued in February 2006, the conversion rates on
        the
        balance of the notes payable are all at prices less than the market price
        as of
        June 30, 2006. If the convertible notes are not converted into shares of
        SYS
        common stock, we will be required to repay in cash $2.1 million of the
        convertible notes that mature in fiscal 2007 and $3.1 million that mature
        in
        fiscal 2009. 

On
        February 14, 2006, SYS completed a private placement of $6,250,000 in a
        subscription offering of 125 units consisting of common stock and unsecured
        subordinated convertible notes. Each unit consisted of 6,944 restricted shares
        of SYS Common Stock at $3.60 per share and a three-year $25,000 unsecured
        subordinated convertible note payable bearing interest at 10% per annum,
        payable
        quarterly. The note holder has the option to convert all but not part of
        the
        note at any time prior to maturity into shares of SYS common stock at $3.60
        per
        share, or keep the note until maturity. SYS has a conversion option commencing
        one year from the date of issuance whereby if our stock trades at $5.40 per
        share for at least five consecutive trading days, SYS can force the conversion
        of the notes then outstanding. SYS issued 868,000 shares of common stock
        pursuant to this offering. An additional 868,000 shares could be issued if
        all
        of the notes are converted into common stock. 

One
        of
        our regular sources of liquidity is our revolving line of credit facility
        for
        $4.0 million that expires on December 28, 2006. Our revolving line of
        credit facility had an outstanding balance of $0.9 million at June 30, 2006.
        The
        $4.0 million revolving line of credit facility allows SYS to use (i) the
        full
        $4.0 million for working capital purposes or (ii) under a Sub Facility, up
        to
        $2.0 million of the credit facility for permitted acquisition purposes and
        $750,000 for minority investment purposes. The line of credit is subject
        to
        certain restrictions on permitted acquisitions and minority investments,
        and in
        some cases, we must receive the lender s consent prior to using the facility for
        such purposes. If used for permitted acquisitions or minority investments,
        these
        advances must be repaid over 48 months. During fiscal 2006 and in connection
        with the purchase of RBIS, we utilized $1.0 million of this line for payment
        of
        a portion of the purchase consideration. In accordance with the terms of
        the
        revolving line of credit facility, the $1.0 million was converted to a term
        note
        effective June 10, 2006. The term note is payable in monthly installments
        of
        $20,833 plus interest or $250,000 annually for the fiscal years 2007 through
        2010. As a result of the borrowing for the RBIS acquisition, the amount
        available under the line of credit was reduced to $3.0 million and consequently,
        the remaining available borrowing capacity on the revolving line of credit
        facility was approximately $2.1million at June 30, 2006.  

We
        must
        maintain certain financial covenants, including tangible effective net worth,
        current assets to current liabilities, quarterly net income, ratio of Senior
        debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)
        and the ratio of cash flow to the current portion of long-term debt. As of
        June
        30, 2006, we were in technical default of the financial covenants related
        to
        minimum quarterly net income, the ratio of cash flow to the current portion
        of
        long term debt, and the ratio of Senior debt to EBITDA. The lender has granted
        a
        waiver of these covenants for the measurement period ended June 30, 2006.
        On
        September 27, 2006, SYS and the lender agreed to amend the terms of the line
        of
        credit to eliminate the minimum quarterly net income covenant, current assets
        to
        current liabilities covenant and ratio of senior debt to EBITDA covenant
        and
        modify the tangible effective net worth covenant and cash flow coverage ratio
        covenant. We anticipate we will be in compliance with the modified covenants
        through the expiration date of the credit facility based on our operating
        budget
        for fiscal 2007. We intend to renew or replace the credit facility prior
        to the
        expiration date.  

17 

We
        have
        the option of being charged prime plus 0.25% or LIBOR plus 300 basis points
        on
        the credit facility and prime plus 0.50% or LIBOR plus 325 basis points on
        the
        sub facility subject to minimum advance amounts and duration under the LIBOR
        option. The loan is collateralized by all of our assets including accounts
        receivable. Borrowings are limited to 80% of our billed accounts receivable
        that
        are less than 90 days old.  

Management
        believes that SYS will have sufficient cash flow from operations and funds
        available under the revolving credit agreement to finance its operating and
        capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. In order for the
        line
        of credit to be available for working capital purposes after December 28,
        2006,
        an extension of the expiration date must be obtained. Management and the
        lender
        are currently in negotiations to renew the line of credit to extend the
        expiration date to December 31, 2007. Although management believes it is
        probable that the line of credit will be renewed and extended, in the event
        the
        credit facility is terminated, we have sufficient cash on hand to repay the
        amounts outstanding under the line of credit. The maturity dates of principal
        amounts owed under the $1.0 million term note with this lender would not
        be
        affected by the termination of the line of credit. However, in the event
        of
        termination, the covenants currently applicable to the line of credit would
        remain applicable to the term note for as long as amounts are outstanding.
        Long-term liquidity and continued acquisition related growth will depend
        on our
        ability to manage cash, raise cash through debt and equity financing
        transactions and regain profitability. We may seek to raise additional capital
        from time to time as market conditions permit and subject to Board approval.
        The
        loss for the current fiscal year may impact our ability to raise capital
        or
        extend the expiration date of our line of credit. 

Commitments
        (amounts in 000 s)  

(1)
        Includes principal and interest 

Off-Balance
        Sheet Arrangements  

SYS
        does
        not have any   
        off
        balance sheet arrangements, investments in special purpose entities or
        undisclosed borrowings or debt. In addition, SYS has not entered into any
        derivative contracts.  

Critical
        Accounting Policies    

We
        believe the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant
        judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial
        statements. 

Revenue
        recognition   .
        The
        majority of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the U.S.
        Government that are typically cost-plus-fee, time-and-material and fixed-price
        contracts. Revenue on these contracts results from work performed on these
        contracts by the Company s employees and subcontractors and from pass-through of
        costs for materials. Revenue on cost-plus-fee and fixed price contracts is
        recorded as contract allowable costs are incurred and fees earned. Revenue
        for
        time-and-material contracts is recorded on the basis of contract allowable
        labor
        and subcontractor hours worked times the contract defined billing rates plus
        the
        cost of material used in the performance on the contract. Revenue from
        service-type fixed-price contracts is recognized ratably over the contract
        period or by other appropriate output methods to measure service provided,
        and
        contract costs are expensed as incurred.  

In
        general, SYS does not recognize revenues in excess of the allowable funding
        limitations on any delivery order or contract until negotiations are finalized.
        On occasion, our customers request that we proceed on a tasking in advance
        of
        the formal contract modification. We evaluate these requests according to
        their
        characteristics and the circumstances in which they occur after taking all
        factors into consideration such as probability of cost recovery, our experience
        with the customer, and satisfactory evidence that supports the customer s intent
        to issue the modification. In these circumstances, if revenue recognition
        criteria are met, we only record revenue equal to costs incurred until such
        time
        as contract modifications are finalized. If our assessment for the probability
        of cost recovery changes in a subsequent period due to a change in circumstances
        then the revenues associated with those costs incurred may be
        reversed. 

Contract
        costs, including indirect costs, on certain U.S. Government contracts are
        subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (the DCAA) before final
        billing and collection of receivables. Revenues have been recorded at amounts
        expected to be realized upon final settlement. Anticipated contract losses
        are
        recognized in the period in which they are identified. 

The
        Company also recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware, hardware products
        which include software that is more than incidental, hardware and software
        maintenance agreements, and Application Service Provider (ASP) services.
        The
        Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists,
        delivery has occurred or services have been provided, the sale price is fixed
        or
        determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. 

Revenue
        from product sales is generally recognized upon shipment, or once all applicable
        criteria have been met in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No 104
        ( SAB
        104 ). Allowances are provided for estimated returns and discounts. Such
        allowances are adjusted periodically to reflect actual and anticipated
        experience.  

Revenue
        from maintenance and ASP services are recognized ratably over the service
        term,
        which is typically one or two years. The unrecognized revenue portion of
        maintenance agreements billed is recorded as deferred revenue.  

Certain
        agreements include multiple deliverables or elements for products, software
        and
        or services. Accordingly, the Company separates its deliverables into units
        of
        accounting in accordance with the provisions of Emerging Task Force ( EITF )
        Issue No. 00-21,  Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple
        Deliverables  using the residual method. In the absence of fair value for an
        undelivered element, the arrangement is accounted for as a single unit of
        accounting, resulting in a deferral of revenue recognition for the delivered
        elements until the undelivered elements are fulfilled.  

18 

Revenue
        on software products and software-related elements are recognized, in accordance
        with AICPA Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97-2,  Software Revenue
        Recognition.  For arrangements that include both hardware products and software
        products, the Company evaluates the arrangement based on EITF 03-5,
 Applicability of AICPA Statement of Position 97-2 to Non-Software Deliverables
        in an Arrangement Containing More-Than-Incidental Software.  In accordance with
        the provisions of EITF 03-5, the arrangement is divided between
        software-related elements and non-software deliverables. Software-related
        elements are accounted for in accordance with SOP 97-2. When software
        arrangements contain multiple elements and vendor specific objective evidence
        of
        fair value exists for all undelivered elements, the Company accounts for
        the
        delivered elements in accordance with the  Residual Method  prescribed by SOP
        No. 98-9. Otherwise, revenue is deferred and recognized in accordance with
        SOP 97-2. 

Indirect
        Expense Rate Variance   .
        SYS
        applies overhead and selling, general and administrative expenses as a
        percentage of direct contract costs based on annual budgeted indirect expense
        rates. To the extent actual expenses for an interim period are greater than
        the
        budgeted rates, the variance is deferred if management believes it is probable
        that the variance will be absorbed by future contract activity. This probability
        assessment includes projecting whether future indirect costs will be
        sufficiently less than the annual budgeted rates or can be absorbed by seeking
        increased billing rates applied on cost-plus-fee contracts. At the end of
        each
        interim reporting period, management assesses the recoverability of any amount
        deferred to determine if any portion should be charged to expense. In assessing
        the recoverability of variances deferred, management takes into consideration
        estimates of the amount of direct labor and other direct costs to be incurred
        in
        future interim periods, the feasibility of modifications for provisional
        billing
        rates, and the likelihood that an approved increase in provisional billing
        rates
        can be passed along to a customer. Variances are charged to expense in the
        periods in which it is determined that such amounts are not probable of
        recovery. At the end of the fiscal year, indirect rates are applied using
        actual
        costs incurred. 

Accounts
        receivable.    Our
        accounts receivable balances include unbilled receivables which are comprised
        of
        work-in-process which will be billed in accordance with contract terms and
        delivery schedules, as well as amounts billable upon final DCAA audit of
        our
        overhead rates, contract completion, milestones or completion of rate
        negotiations. Payments to us for performance on certain of our U.S. Government
        contracts are subject to audit by the DCAA, and are subject to government
        funding. We provide an allowance against our receivables for estimated losses
        that may result from rate negotiations and audit adjustments. To the extent
        that
        actual adjustments due to rate negotiations or audit adjustments differ from
        our
        estimates, our revenue may be impacted. Historically, SYS has not required
        significant allowances for these risks. 

Since
        our
        primary customer is the U.S. Government, SYS historically has not recorded
        significant charges for bad debt expense. Bad debt charges, if needed, are
        recognized in the period in which they are identified. 

Income
        taxes.    The
        Company accounts for income taxes pursuant to the asset and liability method
        which requires deferred income tax assets and liabilities to be computed
        for
        temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets
        and liabilities that will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the
        future
        based on enacted laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the
        differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are
        established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected
        to be realized.  

Valuation
        and Impairment Review of Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived
        Assets   .
        We
        account for our purchases of acquired companies in accordance with Statement
        of
        Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141")
        and
        account for the related acquired intangible assets in accordance with Statement
        of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
( SFAS 142 ). In accordance with SFAS 141, we allocate the cost of the acquired
        companies to the identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities
        acquired, with the remaining amount being classified as goodwill. Certain
        intangible assets, such as acquired technology, are amortized to expense
        over
        time, while in-process research and development, if any, is recorded as an
        expense at the acquisition date. 

The
        majority of the entities acquired by us do not have significant tangible
        assets
        and, as a result, a significant portion of the purchase price is typically
        allocated to intangible assets and goodwill. Our intangible assets  
        with
        finite lives are amortized using a method that best reflects how their economic
        benefits are utilized or, if a pattern of economic benefits cannot be reliably
        determined, on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of one to fifteen
        years.  

We
        evaluate all of our long-lived assets (primarily property and equipment and
        intangible assets other than goodwill) for impairment in accordance with
        the
        provisions of SFAS 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
        Assets  ( SFAS 144 ). SFAS 144 requires that long-lived assets and intangible
        assets other than goodwill be evaluated for impairment whenever events or
        changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may
        not
        be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured
        by a
        comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future
        cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount
        of an
        asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is
        recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds
        the
        fair value of the asset. In accordance with SFAS 144, when a long-lived asset
        or
        intangible asset is abandoned or is determined to be impaired, the carrying
        value or amount of impairment is charged to expense in the period of abandonment
        or the period the impairment is identified. 

Goodwill.
           Goodwill,
        which is equal to the excess of cost over the fair value of acquired net
        assets
        and identifiable intangible assets, has been recorded in conjunction with
        several of the Company's business combinations, is assessed for impairment
        under
        SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets .   Under
        SFAS No. 142, the goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first
        step
        consists of estimating the fair values of each of the reporting units based
        on a
        discounted cash flow model using revenue and profit forecasts and comparing
        those estimated fair values with the carrying values, which includes the
        allocated goodwill. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, a
        second
        step is performed to compute the amount of the impairment by determining
        an
        implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is the
        residual fair value derived by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit s
        assets and liabilities from its estimated fair value calculated in step one.
        The
        impairment charge represents the excess of the carrying amount of the reporting
        units  goodwill over the implied fair value of their goodwill. SFAS No. 142
        requires goodwill to be tested annually at the same time every year and when
        an
        event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible
        that an
        impairment may exist. The Company tests goodwill for impairment in the fourth
        quarter and whenever indications of an impairment are identified.  

Software
        development costs.   
        Capitalization of material software development costs begins when a product s
        technological feasibility has been established in accordance with the provisions
        of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 86,  Accounting for the
        Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed  (SFAS 86).
        To date, there has been only a short time period between achieving technological
        feasibility, which the Company has defined as the establishment of a working
        model, which typically occurs when beta testing commences, and the general
        availability of such software. Consequently, the Company has not capitalized
        any
        software development costs under the provisions of SFAS No. 86. 

Research
        and Development.    The
        Company expenses all applicable research and development costs as
        incurred. 

Share-Based
        Compensation   :
        As of
        July 1, 2005 we account for our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP), stock
        plans
        and other forms of share-based compensation under the provisions of SFAS
        No.
        123R. SFAS No. 123R requires the recognition of the fair value of share-based
        compensation in net income. The fair value of our share-based compensation
        was
        estimated using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. This model requires
        the
        input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price
        volatility and the estimated life of each award. The fair value of share-based
        awards is amortized over the vesting period of the award and we have elected
        to
        use the straight-line method for awards granted after the adoption of SFAS
        No.
        123R and continue to use a graded vesting method for awards granted prior
        to the
        adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we accounted
        for our share-based compensation under the provisions of Accounting Principles
        Board (APB) Opinion No. 25  Accounting For Stock Issued to Employees  (APB No.
        25) and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 44,
         Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation   an
        Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25  and made pro forma footnote disclosures as
        required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 148,
 Accounting For Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure , which
        amends SFAS No. 123,  Accounting For Stock-Based Compensation .  

19 

New
        Accounting Standards  

In
        July
        2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN No. 48),
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes , which prescribes a recognition
        threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements
        uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
        Additionally, FIN No. 48 provides guidance on the derecognition,
        classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements
        for
        uncertain tax positions. The accounting provisions of FIN No. 48 will be
        effective for us beginning July 1, 2007 and we are in the process of
        determining the effect, if any, the adoption of FIN No. 48 will have on our
        financial condition or results of operations. 

In
        September 2006, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157 (SFAS 157),  Fair Value
        Measurements . SFAS 157 proscribes a single definition of fair value as the
        price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability
        in
        an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
        The
        accounting provisions of SFAS 157 will be effective for us beginning July
        1,
        2008. We do not believe the adoption of SFAS 157 will have a material impact
        on
        our financial condition or results of operations. 

In
        September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108 (SAB 108).
        SAB
        108 addresses how the effects of prior year uncorrected misstatements should
        be
        considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements.
        SAB 108 requires companies to quantify misstatements using a balance sheet
        and
        income statement approach and to evaluate whether either approach results
        in
        quantifying an error that is material in light of relevant quantitative and
        qualitative factors. When the effect of initial adoption is material, companies
        will record the effect as a cumulative effect adjustment to beginning of
        year
        retained earnings. SAB 108 will be effective for us beginning July 1, 2007.
        We
        do not believe the initial adoption will have a material impact on our financial
        condition. 

Item
        7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our
        exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to
        our
        investment income and interest expense. As of June 30, 2006 our cash was
        primarily invested in a money market interest bearing account. A hypothetical
        10% adverse change in the average interest rate on our money market cash
        investments would have had no material effect on net income for the year
        ended
        June 30, 2006. We currently do not utilize any derivative financial instruments
        to hedge interest rate risks. 

We
        have
        interest rate risk in that borrowings under our line of credit and term note
        are
        based on variable market interest rates. As of June 30, 2006, we had $0.9
        million of variable rate debt outstanding under our credit facility and $1.0
        million outstanding under a term note.  Presently, the revolving credit
        line bears interest at a rate of prime plus 0.25% and the term note bears
        interest at a rate of prime plus 0.50%. A hypothetical 10% increase in the
        weighted average interest rate of 7.87% per annum on our combined line of
        credit
        and term note would have decreased our operating cash flows for the year
        ended
        June 30, 2006 by approximately $0.1 million.  

Our
        privately issued convertible notes have fixed interest rates of 10%, but
        have
        exposure to changes in the debt s fair value. We believe that the fair value of
        our total outstanding convertible notes is approximately $5.2 million (book
        value of $5.2).   

Item
        8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

Our
        Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto, together with
        the
        report of our independent registered public accounting firm, are included
        in
        Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Item
        9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
        DISCLOSURE   

        None. 

Item
        9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

Evaluation
        of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

Our
        management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
        Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
        and
        procedures as of June 30, 2006. The term  disclosure controls and procedures, 
as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means
        controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that
        information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it
        files
        or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and
        reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms.
        Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls
        and
        procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by
        a
        company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is
        accumulated and communicated to the company s management, including its
        principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow
        timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on the evaluation of
        our
        disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2006, our Chief Executive
        Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our
        disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 

Limitations
        on the Effectiveness of Internal Controls  

Management
        recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed
        and
        operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives
        and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit
        relationship of possible controls and procedures. 

Changes
        in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

There
        has
        been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during our
        fourth quarter that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
        affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  

Item
        9B. OTHER INFORMATION  

None. 

20 

PART
        III  

Item
        10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

The
        information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the
        information under the captions  Election of Directors  and  Affiliate
        Transactions and Relationships  in the Registrant s Proxy Statement, which will
        be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end of the Registrant s fiscal
        year. 

Item
        11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

The
        information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the
        information under the caption  Executive Compensation  in the Registrant s Proxy
        Statement, which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end
        of the
        Registrant s fiscal year. 

Item
        12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
        STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

The
        information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the
        information under the captions  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
        and Management  in the Registrant s Proxy Statement, which will be filed with
        the SEC within 120 days after the end of the Registrants fiscal
        year. 

Item
        13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  

The
        information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the
        information under the caption  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 
in the Registrant s Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC within 120
        days after the end of the Registrants fiscal year. 

Item
        14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  

The
        information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the
        information under the caption  Audit Fees  of the Registrant s Proxy Statement,
        which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end in the
        Registrant s fiscal year. 

21 

PART
        IV  

Item
        15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

FINANCIAL
          STATEMENT SCHEDULES   : 

All
          schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required
          information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.  

EXHIBITS   : 

Exhibit
                  No.  

Description  

2.1 

Certificate
                  of Ownership filed with the California Secretary of State on
                  November 28, 1979, filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s report on
                  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1979, and incorporated
                  by this reference. 

2.2 

Certificate
                  of Ownership filed with the California Secretary of State on
                  March 18, 1985, incident to change of name of the Company, filed as
                  Exhibit 3.6 to this Company s report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended June 30, 1985, and incorporated by this
                  reference. 

2.3 

Testmasters,
                  Inc. Stock Purchase Agreement, filed as Exhibit 2.1 to this Company s
                  Registration Statement on Form SB-2 dated May 24, 2002, and incorporated
                  by this reference. 

2.4 

Polexis
                  merger agreement, filed as Exhibit 2.2 to this Company s Registration
                  Statement on Form SB-2 dated April 19, 2004, and incorporated by this
                  reference. 

2.5 

Asset
                  Purchase and Sale Agreement effective as of December 15, 2004, by and
                  between SYS and Xsilogy, Inc filed as Exhibit 2.5 to this Company s report
                  on Form 10-QSB dated February 7, 2005, and incorporated by this
                  reference. 

2.6 

Agreement
                  and plan of merger effective as of January 3, 2005 among SYS, Shadow
                  I, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of SYS, Antin Engineering, Inc.,
                  and
                  the stockholders of Antin Engineering, Inc. filed as Exhibit 2.6
                  to this
                  Company s report on Form 10-QSB dated February 7, 2005, and
                  incorporated by this reference. 

2.7 

Agreement
                  and Plan of Merger effective as of November 7, 2005 among SYS,
                  Shadow II,
                  Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of SYS, Logic Innovations, Inc.
                  and the
                  stockholders of Logic Innovations, Inc., filed as Exhibit 2.7 to
                  the
                  Company s report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 30, 2005 and
                  incorporated by this reference. 

2.8 

Asset
                  Purchase and Sale Agreement effective December 2, 2005 among SYS,
                  cVideo,
                  Inc. and certain of the stockholders of cVideo, Inc., FILED AS
                  Exhibit 2.8
                  to the Company s report on From 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
                  December 30, 2005 and incorporated by this reference. 

2.9 

Stock
                  Purchase Agreement effective as of April 2, 2006, between SYS and
                  Gary E. Murphy (the sole stockholder of Reality Based IT Services,
                  Ltd.),
                  incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K dated April 6,
                  2006. 

3.1 

Articles
                  of Incorporation for SYS, as amended, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the
                  Company s Registration Statement on Form SB-2, filed May 24, 2002, and
                  incorporated by this reference. 

3.2 

Bylaws
                  of SYS incorporated by reference from our Registration Statement
                  on Form
                  SB-2 filed on May 24, 2002.    

4.1 

Certificate
                  of Determination of Preferences of Preferred Shares of Systems
                  Associates,
                  Inc., filed by the Company with the California Secretary of State
                  on
                  July 28, 1968, filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company s report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1981, and incorporated by
                  this reference. 

4.2 

Certificate
                  of Determination of Preferences of Preference Shares of Systems
                  Associates, Inc., filed by the Company with the California Secretary
                  of
                  State on December 27, 1968, filed as Exhibit 3.3 to the Company s
                  report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1981, and
                  incorporated by this reference. 

4.3 

Certificate
                  of Determination of Series B 9% Cumulative Convertible Callable
                  Non-Voting
                  Preference Stock was filed by the Company with the California Secretary
                  of
                  State on August 15, 1996, and included in   Exhibit
                  3.1 to the Company s Registration Statement on Form SB-2, filed May 24,
                  2002, and incorporated by this reference. 

4.4 

Form
                  of Subscription Agreement from the January 2002 Offering, filed
                  as Exhibit
                  4.1 to this Company s Registration Statement on Form SB-2 dated May 24,
                  2002 and incorporated by this reference. 

4.5 

Form
                  of Convertible Note from the January 2002 Offering, filed as Exhibit
                  4.2
                  to this Company s Registration Statement on Form SB-2 dated May 24,
                  2002. 

4.6 

Form
                  of Subscription Agreement from the February 2004 Offering (Convertible
                  Note from December 2003 Offering included), filed as Exhibit 4.3 to
                  this Company s Registration Statement on Form SB-2 dated April 19,
                  2004 and incorporated by this reference. 

4.7 

Securities
                  Purchase Agreement, from the May 27, 2005 offering, by and among
                  SYS and
                  the investor parties as identified on the signature pages thereto,
                  filed
                  as exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K filed on June 3, 2005 and incorporated
                  by this
                  reference. 

4.8 

Registration
                  Rights Agreement, from the May 27, 2005, by and among SYS and the
                  investor
                  parties as identified on the signature pages thereto, filed as
                  exhibit
                  10.3 to Form 8-K filed on June 3, 2005 and incorporated by this
                  reference. 

4.9 

Form
                  of Warrant to be issued by SYS to the investors in connection with
                  the
                  Securities Purchase Agreement from May 27, 2005 Offering, filed
                  as exhibit
                  10.2 to Form 8-K filed on June 3, 2005 and incorporated by this
                  reference. 

4.10 

Restricted
                  stock purchase agreement between SYS and Ben Goodwin dated August
                  16,
                  2005, filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s report on Form 8-K filed
                  August 18, 2005 and incorporated by this reference.  

4.11 

Form
                  of Subscription Agreement from the Company s February 14, 2006 Offering,
                  filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s report on Form 8-K dated February
                  14, 2006 and incorporated by this reference. 

4.12 

Form
                  of Unsecured Subordinated Convertible Note from the Company s
                  February 14, 2006 Offering, filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the
                  Company s report on Form 8-K dated February 14, 2006 and incorporated
                  by this reference. 

4.13 

Form
                  of Subordination Agreement from the Company s February 14, 2006
                  Offering, filed as Exhibit 99.3 to the Company s report on Form 8-K
                  dated February 14, 2006, and incorporated by this
                  reference. 

10.1 

SYS
                  1997 Incentive Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan filed as
                  Attachment
                  1 to the Company s Proxy Statement filed on February 21, 1997, and
                  incorporated by this reference. 

10.2 

SYS
                  2003 Stock Option Plan filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s report on
                  Form S-8 filed on April 8, 2003, and incorporated by this
                  reference. 

10.3 

SYS
                  2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the
                  Company s
                  report on Form S-8 filed on April 8, 2003, and incorporated by this
                  reference. 

10.4 

Employment
                  contract for Clifton L. Cooke, Jr., the Company s Chief Executive Officer
                  filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company s report on Form 10-KSB for the
                  fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, and incorporated by this
                  reference. 

10.5 

Employment
                  contract for Edward M. Lake, the Company s Chief Financial Officer and
                  Executive Vice President of Financial Operations filed as Exhibit
                  10.5 to
                  the Company s report on Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year ended
                  June 30, 2004, and incorporated by this reference. 

10.6 

Employment
                  contract for Michael W. Fink, the Company s Secretary and Sr. Vice
                  president of Finance and Contracts filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the
                  Company s
                  report on Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, and
                  incorporated by this reference. 

10.7 

Employment
                  contract for Kenneth D. Regan, the Company s Defense Solutions Group s
                  President and Chief Operating Officer filed as Exhibit 10.10 to
                  the
                  Company s report on Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year ended June 30,
                  2004, and incorporated by this reference. 

10.8 

Restricted
                  stock purchase agreement between SYS and Ben Goodwin dated August
                  16,
                  2005, filed as exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K filed August 18,
                  2005. 

21.1 

List
                  of all subsidiaries of SYS incorporated by reference from our Registration
                  Statement on Form SB-2 filed on June 23, 2005. 

23.1 

Consent
                  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm * 

31.1 

Certification
                  of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the
                  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002* 

31.2 

Certification
                  of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the
                  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002* 

32.1 

Certification
                  of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the
                  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002* 

32.2 

Certification
                  of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the
                  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002* 

*Filed
        herewith 

22 

SIGNATURES  

In
        accordance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the registrant caused
        this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
        authorized. 

SYS 

By:  
                  /s/ Clifton L. Cooke, Jr. 

Date:
                    9/29/06 

CLIFTON
                  L. COOKE, JR. 

President
                  and Chief Executive Officer 

By:  
                  /s/ Edward M. Lake  

Date:
                    9/29/06 

EDWARD
                  M. LAKE 

Chief
                  Financial Officer 

In
        accordance with the Exchange Act, this report has been signed below by the
        following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
        the
        dates indicated. 

23 

SYS
        AND
        SUBSIDIARIES 

INDEX
        TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

F-1 

Report
        of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The
        Board
        of Directors and Stockholders 

        SYS: 

We
          have
          audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of SYS and subsidiaries
          (the Company) as of June 30, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated
          statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the
          years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2006. These consolidated
          financial
          statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
          responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
          statements based on our audits.  

We
          conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
          Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
          we plan
          and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
          financial
          statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
          on a
          test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
          statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
          used and
          significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
          financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
          reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In
          our
          opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
          fairly,
          in all material respects, the financial position of SYS and subsidiaries
          as of
          June 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash
          flows
          for each of the years in three-year period ended June 30, 2006, in conformity
          with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 

As
            discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
            has
            adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
            No.
            123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  and accordingly, has changed its method of
            accounting for share-based compensation. 

F-2 

See
        accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements  . 

F-3 

See
        accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements  . 

F-4 

See
        accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements  . 

F-5 

See
        accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 

. 

F-6 

See
        accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements  . 

F-7 

SYS
        AND SUBSIDIARIES  

         NOTES
        TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

1.     
             
                 THE
                COMPANY AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES     

The
        Company  

SYS
        and
        its subsidiaries provide information connectivity solutions that capture,
        analyze and present real-time information to customers in the Department
        of
        Defense (DoD), Department of Homeland Security (DHS), other government agencies
        and to large industrial companies.  Using interoperable communications
        software, sensors, digital video broadcast and surveillance technologies,
        wireless networks, decision-support tools and net-centric technologies, our
        technical experts enhance complex decision-making. Founded in 1966, SYS is
        headquartered in San Diego and has principal offices in California, Virginia
        and
        Maryland.  

Basis
        of Presentation  

The
        consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
        its
        wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company transactions and
        balances have been eliminated.  

Reclassifications  

Certain
          amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to
          conform
          to the current year financial statement presentation. In particular, a
          portion
          of research, engineering and development expenses were previously classified
          in
          2005 as cost of revenues ($500,000) and a portion was previously classified
          as
          selling, general and administrative expenses ($191,000). 

Use
        of Estimates  

The
        preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity with accounting
        principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), requires
        management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions. These estimates
        and
        assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the
        disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated
        financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during
        the
        reporting period. Actual results may differ from these estimates. On an ongoing
        basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those that relate to
        revenues and customer billings, recovery of indirect costs, long-lived assets,
        intangible assets including goodwill, income tax contingencies, share-based
        compensation and litigation. 

Concentration
        of Credit Risk  

Financial
        instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit
        risk consist primarily of cash and trade accounts receivable. The Company
        grants
        credit to customers. Its primary customers are agencies of the U.S. Government.
        Management believes that the exposure to credit risk from agencies of the
        U.S.
        Government is insignificant. 

The
        Company maintains its cash balances primarily in one financial institution.
        As
        of June 30, 2006, cash balances did exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance
        Corporation limitation for coverage of $100,000. Exposure to credit risk
        is
        reduced by placing such deposits with a major financial institution and
        monitoring its credit rating. 

On
        a
        periodic basis, the Company evaluates its contract receivables and establishes
        an allowance for doubtful accounts, based on a history of past write-offs
        and
        the risk of not collecting billed and unbilled recoverable costs.  

Revenue
        Recognition  

The
        majority of the Company s revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the
        U.S. Government that are typically cost-plus-fee, time-and-material and
        fixed-price contracts. Revenue on these contracts results from work performed
        by
        the Company s employees and subcontractors and from pass-through of costs for
        materials. Revenue on cost-plus-fee contracts is recorded as contract allowable
        costs are incurred and fees earned. Revenue for time-and-material contracts
        is
        recorded on the basis of contract allowable labor and subcontractor hours
        worked
        times the contract defined billing rates plus the cost of material used in
        the
        performance on the contract. Revenue from service-type fixed-price contracts
        is
        recognized ratably over the contract period or by other appropriate output
        methods to measure service provided, and contract costs are expensed as
        incurred.  

In
        general, the Company does not recognize revenues in excess of the allowable
        funding limitations on any delivery order or contract until negotiations
        are
        finalized. On occasion, the Company s customers request that it proceed on a
        tasking in advance of the formal contract modification. The Company evaluates
        these requests according to their characteristics and the circumstances in
        which
        they occur after taking all factors into consideration such as probability
        of
        cost recovery, its experience with the customer, and satisfactory evidence
        that
        supports the customer s intent to issue the modification. In these
        circumstances, if revenue recognition criteria are met, the Company only
        records
        revenue equal to costs incurred until such time as contract modifications
        are
        finalized. If the Company s assessment for the probability of cost recovery
        changes in a subsequent period due to a change in circumstances then the
        revenues associated with those costs incurred may be reversed. 

Contract
        costs, including indirect costs, on certain U.S. Government contracts are
        subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) before final
        billing and collection of receivables. Revenues have been recorded at amounts
        expected to be realized upon final settlement. Anticipated contract losses
        are
        recognized in the period in which they are identified. 

The
        Company also recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware, hardware products
        which include software that is more than incidental, hardware and software
        maintenance agreements, and Application Service Provider (ASP) services.
        The
        Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists,
        delivery has occurred or services have been provided, the sale price is fixed
        or
        determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. 

Revenue
        from product sales is generally recognized upon shipment, or once all applicable
        criteria have been met in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104
        (SAB
        104). Allowances are provided for estimated returns and discounts. Such
        allowances are adjusted periodically to reflect actual and anticipated
        experience.  

Revenue
        from maintenance and ASP services are recognized ratably over the service
        term,
        which is typically one or two years. The unrecognized revenue portion of
        maintenance agreements billed is recorded as deferred revenue.  

F-8 

Certain
        agreements include multiple deliverables or elements for products, software
        and/or services. Accordingly, the Company separates its deliverables into
        units
        of accounting in accordance with the provisions of Emerging Task Force ( EITF )
        Issue No. 00-21,  Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple
        Deliverables  using the residual method. In the absence of fair value for an
        undelivered element, the arrangement is accounted for as a single unit of
        accounting, resulting in a deferral of revenue recognition for the delivered
        elements until the undelivered elements are fulfilled.  

Revenue
        on software products and software-related elements are recognized, in accordance
        with AICPA Statement of Position No. 97-2,  Software Revenue Recognition 
(SOP 97-2). For arrangements that include both hardware products and software
        products, the Company evaluates the arrangement based on EITF 03-5,
 Applicability of AICPA Statement of Position 97-2 to Non-Software Deliverables
        in an Arrangement Containing More-Than-Incidental Software.  In accordance with
        the provisions of EITF 03-5, the arrangement is divided between
        software-related elements and non-software deliverables. Software-related
        elements are accounted for in accordance with SOP 97-2. When software
        arrangements contain multiple elements and vendor specific objective evidence
        of
        fair value exists for all undelivered elements, the Company accounts for
        the
        delivered elements in accordance with the  Residual Method  prescribed by SOP
        No. 98-9. Otherwise, revenue is deferred and recognized in accordance with
        SOP 97-2. 

Research,
        Engineering and Development  

The
        Company expenses all applicable research, engineering and development costs
        as incurred. 

Advertising
        Costs  

The
        Company expenses all applicable advertising costs as incurred. For fiscal
        years
        2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company did not incur any material advertising
        costs. 

Inventories  

Inventories
        include the cost of material, labor and overhead and are stated at the lower
        of
        cost, determined on the first-in, first-out method, or market value. The
        Company
        periodically evaluates on-hand stock and makes appropriate provisions for
        any
        stock deemed excess or obsolete in the period such determination is
        made. 

Warranties  

The
        Company provides for the estimated costs to fulfill customer warranty and
        other
        contractual obligations upon the recognition of the related revenue. Such
        reserves are determined based upon actual warranty cost experience, estimates
        of
        component failure rates, and management s industry experience. Warranty costs
        have historically been insignificant. 

Software
        Development Costs   

Capitalization
        of material software development costs begins when a product s technological
        feasibility has been established in accordance with the provisions of Statement
        of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 86,  Accounting for the Costs
        of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed.  To date, there
        is only a short time period between achieving technological feasibility,
        which
        the Company has defined as the establishment of a working model, which typically
        occurs when beta testing commences, and the general availability of such
        software. Consequently, the Company has not capitalized any software development
        costs under the provisions of SFAS No. 86. 

Furniture
        and Equipment  

Furniture
        and equipment is stated at cost. Furniture and equipment are depreciated on
        a straight-line basis over three to ten years. Information technology equipment
        and purchased software are depreciated on a straight-line basis over two
        to
        three years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the
        lease
        term or the useful life of the improvements. Repairs and maintenance costs
        are
        expensed as incurred. When assets are sold or retired, the related asset
        and
        accumulated depreciation amounts are removed from their respective accounts
        and
        any gain or loss is recognized in the Consolidated Statements of
        Operations. 

Valuation
        and Impairment Review of Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived
        Assets

The
        Company accounts for its purchases of acquired companies in accordance with
        Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 "Business Combinations"
        ("SFAS 141") and accounts for the related acquired intangible assets in
        accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142  Goodwill
        and Other Intangible Assets  ( SFAS 142 ). In accordance with SFAS 141, the
        Company allocates the cost of the acquired companies to the identifiable
        tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired, with the remaining
        amount being classified as goodwill. Certain intangible assets, such as acquired
        technology, are amortized to expense over time, while in-process research
        and
        development, if any, is recorded as an expense at the acquisition
        date. 

The
        Company evaluates all of its long-lived assets (primarily property and equipment
        and intangible assets other than goodwill) for impairment in accordance with
        the
        provisions of SFAS 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
        Assets  ( SFAS 144 ). SFAS 144 requires that long-lived assets and intangible
        assets other than goodwill be evaluated for impairment whenever events or
        changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may
        not
        be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured
        by a
        comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future
        cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount
        of an
        asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is
        recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds
        the
        fair value of the asset. In accordance with SFAS 144, when a long-lived asset
        or
        intangible asset is abandoned or is determined to be impaired, the carrying
        value or amount of impairment is charged to expense in the period of abandonment
        or the period the impairment is identified. 

Goodwill

Goodwill,
        which is equal to the excess of cost over the fair value of acquired net
        assets
        and identifiable intangible assets, which has been recorded in conjunction
        with
        several of the Company's business combinations, is assessed for impairment
        under
        SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. .  

Under
        SFAS No. 142, the goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first
        step
        consists of estimating the fair values of each of the reporting units based
        on a
        discounted cash flow model using revenue and profit forecasts and comparing
        those estimated fair values with their carrying values, which includes the
        allocated goodwill. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, a
        second
        step is performed to compute the amount of the impairment by determining
        an
        implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is the
        residual fair value derived by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit s
        assets and liabilities from its estimated fair value calculated in step one.
        The
        impairment charge represents the excess of the carrying amount of the reporting
        units  goodwill over the implied fair value of their goodwill. SFAS No. 142
        requires goodwill to be tested annually at the same time every year and when
        an
        event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible
        that an
        impairment may exist. The Company tests goodwill for impairment in the fourth
        quarter and whenever indications of an impairment are identified. 

F-9 

Investments  

The
        Company has a 12% ownership interest in a company that is included in other
        assets and is accounted for under the cost method, whereby the investment
        is
        recorded at its initial cost and periodically reviewed for impairment. At
        June
        30, 2006, the carrying value included in other assets was approximately
        $73,000. 

Share-based
        compensation  

The
        Company has two stock plans that provide for the grant to employees of stock
        options, permit the grant of non-statutory share-based awards to paid
        consultants, and provide for the automatic grant of non-statutory share-based
        awards to outside directors. The plans may have options with terms of no
        more
        than ten years. The maximum terms of the options granted under these plans
        have
        been seven years with a maximum vesting of five years. The Company also has
        an
        employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) for employees to purchase its common
        stock
        at a discount. The ESPP provides for enrollment on the first day of a six-month
        period in which the employees can elect payroll deductions for the purchase
        of
        the Company s common stock. The exercise date of the ESPP shall be the last day
        of the six month period and the purchase price shall be 85% of the fair market
        value of a share of common stock on the enrollment or exercise date, whichever
        is lower. 

Prior
        to
        July 1, 2005, the Company accounted for its stock plans under the
        provisions of APB No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB
        No. 25 ) and FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 44,  Accounting for
        Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation - an Interpretation of
        APB
        Opinion No. 25  ((FIN No. 44 ) and made pro forma footnote disclosures
        as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 148,
         Accounting For Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure , which
        amends SFAS No. 123,  Accounting For Stock-Based Compensation . The Company
        adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),
 Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No. 123R ), effective July 1, 2005 using a
        modified prospective application, as permitted under SFAS 123(R). Accordingly,
        prior period amounts have not been restated. Under this application, the
        Company
        is required to record compensation expense for all awards granted after the
        date
        of adoption and for the unvested portion of previously granted awards that
        remain outstanding at the date of adoption.    SFAS(R)
        requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions
        be
        recognized in the financial statements. SFAS 123(R) establishes fair value
        as
        the measurement objective in accounting for share-based payment arrangements
        and
        requires us to apply a fair value based measurement method in accounting
        for
        generally all share based payment transactions with employees.  

Under
        the
        modified-prospective-transition method, share-based compensation expense
        recognized during the year ended June 30, 2006 includes stock options
        granted prior to, but not yet vested as of July 1, 2005, based on the
        grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions
        of
        SFAS No. 123 and the following items based on the grant date values
        estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123R: (a) stock options
        granted after June 30, 2005, (b) ESPP with offering periods commencing
        subsequent to June 30, 2005, (c) a stock purchase agreement issued to an
        employee that provided for the purchase of the Company s stock at a discount and
        (d) stock issued to employees of the Company. 

The
        modified prospective transition method of SFAS No. 123R requires the
        presentation of pro forma information, for periods presented prior to the
        adoption of SFAS No. 123R, regarding net income and net income per share as
        if the Company had accounted for its stock plans under the fair value method
        of
        SFAS No. 123. For pro forma purposes, fair value of stock options and ESPP
        awards was estimated using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. The
        fair
        value of all of the Company s share-based awards was estimated assuming no
        expected dividends and estimates of expected life, volatility and risk-free
        interest rate at the time of grant.  

The
          adoption of SFAS No. 123R resulted in an increase in both the loss before
          income
          taxes and net loss of $350,000 for the year ended June 30, 2006. The impact
          on
          basic and diluted loss per share for the year ended June 30, 2006 was an
          increase in both of $.03 per share. 

The
        following table illustrates the effect on net income and net income per share
        if
        the Company had accounted for its stock plans under the fair value method
        of
        accounting under SFAS No. 123 for the fiscal years ending June 30, 2005 and
        2004: 

The
        pro-forma share-based employee compensation expense determined under fair
        value
        based method for all stock option awards for the years ended June 30, 2005
        and
        2004 was estimated using the following weighted-average
        assumptions: 

F-10 

Income
        (loss) per common share  

Basic
        income (loss) per common share is calculated by dividing net income (loss)
        applicable to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common
        shares outstanding during the period.  The calculation of diluted income
        per common share is similar to that of basic income per common share, except
        that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common
        shares that would have been outstanding if all potentially dilutive common
        shares, principally those issuable upon the conversion of notes payable,
        and the
        exercise of stock options and warrants, were issued. In periods in which
        the
        Company incurs a net loss, basic and dilutive income per common share are
        the
        same because including the effects of potentially dilutive shares would be
        anti-dilutive. 

The
        following table summarizes the calculation of basic and diluted net income
        (loss) per common share for the years ended June 30: 

A
        total
        of 2.8 million shares related to stock options, convertible notes and our
        ESPP
        were excluded from the calculation of diluted income per share because they
        were
        anti-dilutive for fiscal 2006. For the fiscal years ending June 30, 2005
        and
        2004, there were no anti-dilutive shares excluded from the calculation of
        diluted net income per share. 

Income
        taxes  

The
        Company accounts for income taxes pursuant to the asset and liability method
        which requires deferred income tax assets and liabilities to be computed
        for
        temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets
        and liabilities that will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the
        future
        based on enacted laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the
        differences are expected to affect taxable income. 

The
        Company maintains a valuation allowance on the portion of the deferred tax
        assets for which it is more likely than not that the Company will not realize
        the benefits of these deferred tax assets in future tax periods. 

Fair
        value of financial instruments  

The
        Company s financial instruments at June 30, 2006 for which disclosure of
        estimated fair value is required consisted of cash, contract and other
        receivables, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, income taxes receivable,
        outstanding balance for line of credit, convertible notes payable and notes
        payable. In the opinion of management, (i) cash, contract and other receivables,
        accounts payable, accrued liabilities and income taxes receivable were carried
        at values that approximated their fair values because of their liquidity
        and/or
        their short-term maturities and (ii) line of credit and notes payable were
        carried at values that approximated their fair values because they had interest
        rates equivalent to those currently prevailing for financial instruments
        with
        similar characteristics. 

As
        of
        June 30, 2006, the convertible notes payable to related and unrelated
        parties with a carrying value of $5,197,000 had a fair value of $5,210,000
        on an
 as converted  basis.  

New
        accounting standards  

In
        July
        2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN No. 48),
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes , which prescribes a recognition
        threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements
        uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
        Additionally, FIN No. 48 provides guidance on the derecognition,
        classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements
        for
        uncertain tax positions. The accounting provisions of FIN No. 48 will be
        effective July 1, 2007 and the Company is in the process of determining the
        effect, if any, the adoption of FIN No. 48 will have on its financial
        condition or results of operations. 

In
        September 2006, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157 (SFAS 157),  Fair Value
        Measurements . SFAS 157 proscribes a single definition of fair value as the
        price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability
        in
        an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
        The
        accounting provisions of SFAS 157 will be effective for the Company beginning
        July 1, 2008. The Company does not believe the adoption of SFAS 157 will
        have a
        material impact on its financial condition or results of
        operations. 

In
        September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108 (SAB 108).
        SAB
        108 addresses how the effects of prior year uncorrected misstatements should
        be
        considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements.
        SAB 108 requires companies to quantify misstatements using a balance sheet
        and
        income statement approach and to evaluate whether either approach results
        in
        quantifying an error that is material in light of relevant quantitative and
        qualitative factors. When the effect of initial adoption is material, companies
        will record the effect as a cumulative effect adjustment to beginning of
        year
        retained earnings. SAB 108 will be effective for the Company beginning July
        1,
        2007. The Company is in the process of determining whether the initial adoption
        will have a material impact on its financial condition. 

F-11 

Note
        2 -Impairment charges  

During
          the fourth quarter management made a decision to suspend efforts to sell
          or
          further develop technology associated with SensorWorX products, which are
          included in the operations of the PSSIG segment. As a result, the Company
          assessed the impact of this decision on the Company s ability to recover the
          carrying value of long-lived assets in this segment and also considered
          the
          impact during the annual impairment analysis of goodwill.  

As
          a
          result of this assessment, the Company identified an impairment in the
          PSSIG
          segment of approximating $1.2 million of which, $0.5 million was a reduction
          of
          identified intangible assets, $0.6 million was a reduction to goodwill
          and $0.1
          million was related to the write down of certain fixed assets. In addition,
          the
          Company recorded an impairment charge of $0.1 million to write down the
          carrying
          value of the ForceViz software purchased in September 2005 based on an
          evaluation which indicated that future cash flows would not be sufficient
          to
          recover the carrying value of the asset. The total amount recorded for
          impairment during the fourth quarter was approximately $1.3
          million. 

In
          conjunction with management s decision to suspend efforts to sell products
          related to SensorWorX , the Company considered the recoverability of other
          assets related to the PSSIG segment and determined that an adjustment was
          necessary to reduce the carrying value of related inventory to the lower
          of cost
          or market, which resulted in a charge to cost of sales approximating $0.2
          million. 
.

Note
        3 - Accounts receivable  

Accounts
        receivable consist of the following: 

Costs
        and
        profits in excess of billings consist of amounts billable subsequent to
        year-end. Retentions will be due upon completion of the contracts and audits
        of
        overhead rates by the customer; based on the Company s experience with similar
        contracts in recent years, the balances at June 30, 2006 are expected to be
        collected in fiscal 2007 and 2008. 

Recoverable
        costs subject to contract close-out consist primarily of revenues recognized
        on
        specific delivery orders as a result of actual indirect expense rates exceeding
        the provisionally approved indirect billing rates. These receivables will
        be
        billable upon closure of audits of overhead rates of the specific delivery
        orders or the contracts. Contract costs, including indirect costs, on certain
        U.S. Government contracts are subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit
        Agency (DCAA) before final payment is received. Revenues and accounts receivable
        are recorded at amounts expected to be realized upon final
        settlement. 

Billings
        in excess of costs incurred are included in the balance sheet as other accrued
        liabilities and totaled $353,000 at June 30, 2006 and $274,000 at June 30,
        2005.  

The
          following is a summary of the changes to the balance of allowance for doubtful
          accounts: 

F-12 

Note
        4 - Other Financial Data  

Inventory:  

Property
        and equipment  

During
        the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded
        $560,000, $364,000 and $237,000, respectively, of depreciation and amortization
        expense related to furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements.

Accrued
        payroll and related expenses  

Note
        5- Intangible assets and Goodwill  

F-13 

Amortization
        expense for intangible assets was $762,000, $269,000 and $46,000 for the
        years
        ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

Estimated
        aggregate future amortization expense for acquisition-related intangible
        assets
        in future fiscal years is as follows:  

Goodwill  

The
        changes in the carrying amount of goodwill during fiscal 2006 are as
        follows: 

Note
        6 - Line of credit and working capital loan  

At
        June
        30, 2006, the Company had approximately $0.9 million outstanding under its
        revolving line of credit facility (credit facility) provided by Comerica
        Bank -
        California (the lender). No amounts were outstanding as of June 30, 2005.
        The
        credit facility, as it relates to any balance outstanding on the line of
        credit,
        expires December 28, 2006. The credit facility allows for maximum borrowings
        of
        up to $4,000,000 (credit limit) including the balance of the installment
        note,
        is limited to 80% of qualifying contract receivables and is collateralized
        by
        substantially all of the assets of the Company, as defined, The Company has
        the
        option of being charged prime plus 0.25% or LIBOR plus 300 basis points on
        the
        credit facility and prime plus 0.50% or LIBOR plus 325 basis points on the
        Sub
        Facility subject to minimum advance amounts and duration under the LIBOR
        option.
        As of June 30, 2006, the outstanding balance on the line of credit bears
        interest at 0.25% above the prime rate (an effective rate of 8.50% at June
        30,
        2006).  

The
        Company must maintain certain financial covenants, including tangible effective
        net worth, current assets to current liabilities, quarterly net income, ratio
        of
        Senior debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
        (EBITDA) and the ratio of cash flow to the current portion of long-term debt.
        As
        of June 30, 2006 the Company was in technical default of the financial covenants
        related to minimum quarterly net income, the ratio of cash flow to the current
        portion of long term debt, and the ratio of Senior debt to EBITDA. The lender
        has granted a waiver of these covenants for the measurement period ended
        June
        30, 2006. On September 27, 2006, the Company and the lender agreed to amend
        the
        terms of the line of credit to eliminate the minimum quarterly net income
        covenant, current assets to current liabilities covenant and ratio of Senior
        debt to EBITDA covenant and modify the tangible effective net worth covenant
        and
        cash flow coverage ratio covenant.  

The
        credit facility allows the Company to use (i) the full $4,000,000 for working
        capital purposes or (ii) under a Sub Facility, up to $2,000,000 of the credit
        facility for permitted acquisition purposes and $750,000 for minority investment
        purposes.  The Company is subject to certain restrictions on the permitted
        acquisitions and minority investments and in some cases must receive Comerica's
        consent prior to using the facility for such purposes. 

If
        used
        for permitted acquisitions or minority investments, such borrowings must
        be
        repaid over 48 months. During fiscal 2006 and in connection with the purchase
        of
        RBIS, the company utilized $1.0 million of this line for payment of a portion
        of
        the purchase consideration. In accordance with the terms of the revolving
        line
        of credit facility, the $1.0 million was converted to a term note effective
        June
        10, 2006. The term note is payable in monthly installments of $20,833 plus
        interest or $250,000 annually for the fiscal years 2007 through 2010.

As
        a
        result of the borrowing for the RBIS acquisition, the amount available under
        the
        line of credit was reduced to $3.0 million and consequently, the remaining
        available borrowing capacity on the revolving line of credit facility was
        approximately $2.1million at June 30, 2006.  

F-14 

Note
        7 - Notes payable  

Maturities
        of principal balances of long term debt, excluding the effect of the discount,
        are: Fiscal 2007 - $2,100,000 and 2009 - $3,125,000. 

Related
        parties consist of directors, officers and employees of the Company and their
        affiliates that are holders of the notes payable. 

The
        Company does not have the right to force conversion of the convertible notes
        payable into common stock. However, the convertible notes payable issued
        as part
        of the consideration for the acquisition of Polexis (see Note 13) gave the
        Company the right to convert one-half of the notes payable if certain conditions
        were met. In January 2005, the Company exercised its right to convert $685,000
        of the outstanding convertible notes payable related to the Polexis acquisition
        (Polexis notes payable) into 295,159 shares of common stock. During 2006,
        holders of the Polexis notes payable elected to convert $294,000 of notes
        payable into 126,597 shares of common stock. Holders of the convertible notes
        payable maturing in November 2005 elected to convert $12,000 of notes payable
        into 12,500 shares common stock in 2005 and $707,000 of notes payable into
        706,250 shares of common stock in 2006. Holders of the convertible notes
        maturing December 31, 2006 elected to convert $87,000 of notes payable into
        39,774 shares of common stock in 2006. 

The
        convertible notes payable issued in 2004 were sold at an aggregate discount
        of $
        129,000. Accordingly, the discount is being accreted through interest expense
        over the term of the notes of which $40,000, $43,000 and $14,000 was recorded
        in
        fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As a result of the conversion of
        some
        of these notes into common shares in 2006, unamortized discount of $3,000
        was
        netted against the face amount of the notes payable. 

The
        Company had $59,000 and $32,000 of deferred financing costs as of June 30,
        2006
        and 2005, respectively. The costs are amortized over the term of the notes.
        Amortization expense of $30,000, $38,000 and $30,000 was included in interest
        expense in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. 

F-15 

Note
        8 - Leases  

The
        Company leases offices, office equipment and an automobile under non-cancelable
        operating lease agreements that expire at various dates through March 2010.
        Certain leases provide for increases in the minimum lease payments based
        on
        fluctuations in various price indices. Rent expense for operating leases
        totaled
        $1,368,000, $913,000 and $705,000 in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
        Several leases offer an option to renew for a five-year term at the then
        fair
        market rental rate. The Company has entered into subleases for portions of
        certain facilities in which it will collect rent through fiscal
        2010. 

Future
        minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases with initial
        terms
        of one year or more, net of sublease income, as of June 30, 2006 are as
        follows: 

Note
        9 - Stockholders  equity  

Preferred
        stock  

The
        Company is authorized to issue up to 250,000 shares of nonvoting convertible
        preferred stock, with a par value of $.50 per share, of which none were
        outstanding as of June 30, 2006 or 2005. Cumulative dividends on
        outstanding shares are payable at the annual rate of 4%. 

Preference
        stock  

The
        Company is authorized to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preference stock,
        with
        a par value of $1.00 per share, of which none were outstanding as of
        June 30, 2006 and 2005. Payments of dividends on the preference stock are
        subordinate to the payment of dividends on the 4% preferred stock. The Company
        called the previously outstanding shares of this stock in 2004 and gave the
        shareholders an option to convert to common stock.  The Company issued
        $10,000 in common stock and $60,000 in cash to these shareholders in 2004,
        thus
        retiring the stock.  Cash dividends paid on the preference stock totaled
        $4,000 in 2004. 

Common
        stock  

The
        Company is authorized to issue up to 48,000,000 shares of common stock, of
        which
        15,352,622 shares were outstanding as of June 30, 2006. 

On
        February 14, 2006, SYS completed a private placement of $6,250,000 in a
        subscription offering of 125 units consisting of common stock and unsecured
        subordinated convertible notes. Each unit consisted of 6,944 restricted shares
        of SYS Common Stock at $3.60 per share and a three-year $25,000 unsecured
        subordinated convertible note payable bearing interest at 10% per annum,
        payable
        quarterly. The note holder has the option to convert all but not part of
        the
        note at any time prior to maturity into shares of SYS common stock at $3.60
        per
        share, or keep the note until maturity. SYS has a conversion option commencing
        one year from the date of issuance whereby if the Company s stock trades at
        $5.40 per share for at least five consecutive trading days, SYS can force
        the
        conversion of the notes then outstanding. SYS issued 868,000 shares of common
        stock pursuant to this offering. An additional 868,000 shares could be issued
        if
        all of the notes are converted into common stock. The Company incurred a
        total
        of $211,000 of transaction costs for the private placement of which $56,000
        was
        recorded as deferred financing costs and $155,000 was charged to common
        stock. 

On
        June
        2, 2005, SYS completed the sale of 1,427,655 shares of common stock at an
        aggregate price of $3,355,000 ($2.35 per share) pursuant to a securities
        purchase agreement to sell to certain institutional investors in a private
        placement transaction. The company incurred $456,000 of costs related to
        this
        transaction and registration costs. As part of the transaction, the Company
        issued warrants to the investors to purchase an aggregate of 428,289 shares
        of
        common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per share. The warrants are
        exercisable from the date of issue through June 2, 2010. After June 2, 2006
        the
        Company may call the warrants if the Company s closing stock price exceeds $4.50
        for ten consecutive trading days immediately prior to a call and trading
        volume
        exceeds 20,000 shares on each of those days.  

In
        January 2004, the Company completed a subscription offering raising $3,200,000
        for working capital and acquisition financing. The offering consisted of
        $50,000
        units comprised of 50% common stock and 50% convertible notes. The notes
        bear
        interest at 10%, are unsecured and mature on December 31, 2006.  The
        common stock was priced at $1.60 per share, which represented an approximate
        15%
        discount to market at the time the financing was approved by the Board. 
This discount was prorated to each of the two elements in the unit offering
        resulting in an adjusted relative fair value of common stock and convertible
        notes.  The discounted convertible notes are being ratably accreted to the
        face value of the notes over the three-year maturity period.   

F-16 

Stock
        options and warrants  

The
        Company received $1,184,000, $50,000 and $416,000 in cash for the exercise
        of
        stock options and warrants in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
        respectively. 

Stock
        option plans  

On
        August
        20, 1996, the Company s Board of Directors adopted the SYS 1997 Incentive Stock
        Option and Restricted Stock Plan (the old Plan), which was modified and ratified
        by the Company s stockholders during 1998. The old Plan provided for grants by
        the Board of Directors of Incentive Stock Options to purchase up to 1,750,000
        shares of common stock to employees and grants of restricted stock options
        to
        purchase up to 450,000 shares of common stock to directors and consultants.
        The
        old Plan may have options with terms of no more than ten years. On April
        14,
        2003, the 1997 stock option plan was superseded by a new plan, however, all
        outstanding options remain valid. 

On
        February 21, 2003, the Company s Board of Directors adopted the SYS 2003
        Stock Option Plan (the Plan), which, was approved by the Company s stockholders
        during the 2002 annual stockholders  meeting on April 14, 2003. The Plan
        provides for grants by the Board of Directors of Incentive Stock Options
        to
        employees and grants of Non-Qualified Options to directors and consultants.
        The
        total amount of common stock reserved for issuance under the Plan is 3,000,000
        shares. The Plan may have options with terms of no more than ten years.

The
        maximum terms of the options granted under the Company s stock option plans have
        been seven years with a maximum vesting of five years. At June 30, 2006,
        the
        Company had 1,093,750 shares of common stock available for future grants
        under
        its plans. 

The
        following table summarizes certain information regarding stock options during
        the fiscal year ending June 30, 2006: 

The
          weighted average fair value per share of options granted was $0.94, $1.15
          and
          $.70 during the years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
          respectively. 

During
        the year ending June 30, 2006, stock options were exercised and paid for
        by the
        option holders by tendering 56,555 shares of the Company s outstanding stock
        owned by the option holders. The 56,555 tendered shares had a fair market
        value
        of $200,358. 

The
        total
        intrinsic value of options exercised during the year ended June 30, 2006
        was
        $1,741,000. As of June 30, 2006, there was $353,000 of total unrecognized
        compensation cost related to non-vested stock options granted and outstanding;
        that cost is expected to be recognized through fiscal year 2010, with a weighted
        average remaining period of 3.8 years. Cash received from stock option exercises
        was $897,000 during the year ended June 30, 2006. 

The
        following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding as
        of
        June 30, 2006, all of which were at fixed prices: 

F-17 

Share-based
        Compensation  

The
        following is a summary of the share-based compensation expense recognized
        by the
        Company for the year ending June 30, 2006 

The
        estimated fair value of the Company s share-based awards granted during fiscal
        2006 was determined using the following weighted average
        assumptions: 

The
        estimated fair value of the Company s share-based awards, less expected
        forfeitures, is amortized over the awards  vesting period on a straight-line
        basis for awards granted after the adoption of SFAS No. 123R and on a
        graded-vesting basis for awards granted prior to the adoption of SFAS No.
        123R.

On
        August
        16, 2005, the Company entered into a restricted stock purchase agreement
        with an
        employee as an inducement to employment. The agreement allowed the employee
        to
        purchase between 200,000 and 250,000 shares of the Company s common stock by
        November 15, 2005. The purchase price was to be 90 percent of the average
        closing price between the date of the agreement and the purchase date but
        in no
        event less than $2.50 per share. The rights to purchase the shares vested
        one-half on September 30, 2005 and one-half on November 15, 2005. The Company
        valued this agreement using an option pricing model with an expected life
        of
        three months, expected volatility of 48.58%, a 3.52% risk free interest rate
        and
        no expected dividends. As of June 30, 2006 there was no unrecognized
        compensation cost related to this stock purchase agreement. On November 9,
        2005
        the Company and the employee determined that the employee would not be able
        to
        exercise his rights or fulfill his obligations within the terms of the
        agreement. As a result, the Company and the employee mutually agreed to,
        and
        executed, a rescission of the restricted stock purchase agreement. 

On
        June
        29, 2005, the Board of Directors of SYS approved the acceleration of the
        vesting
        of all outstanding unvested stock options (the Acceleration). The Acceleration
        was effective for all such options outstanding on June 30, 2005, all of which
        were granted by the Company when the accounting rules permitted use of the
        intrinsic-value method of accounting for stock options. All of the other
        terms
        and conditions applicable to such outstanding stock option grants still apply.
        Under APB No. 25, the Acceleration resulted in recognition of share-based
        compensation expense of $51,000 which was determined by measuring the intrinsic
        value on the date of the modification of the options that otherwise would
        have
        expired unexercised. The Company's decision to accelerate the vesting of
        these
        options was in anticipation of compensation expense to be recorded in connection
        with outstanding unvested stock options issued to employees subsequent to
        the
        effective date of SFAS No. 123R. As a result of the Acceleration, options
        to
        purchase 785,642 shares of the Company's common stock became immediately
        exercisable. If these options had not been accelerated, additional share-based
        compensation expense totaling $189,000 would have been recognized in fiscal
        2006, and a balance of $388,817 would have been recognized over a weighted
        average remaining vesting period of approximately 3.0 years. Holders of
        incentive stock options to purchase 246,800 shares of common stock elected
        to
        decline the acceleration of their options because the acceleration would
        have
        the effect of changing the status of such options for federal income tax
        purposes from an incentive stock option to a non-qualified stock
        option. 

Warrants  

Holders
        of warrants issued in connection with the Company s sale of common stock in June
        2005 exercised warrants to purchase 114,888 shares at an exercise price of
        $2.50
        per share or $287,000. As of June 30, 2006, the remaining outstanding warrants
        related to this sale of common stock are exercisable into 313,401 shares
        of
        common stock at $2.50 per share and expire in June 2010.  

The
        following warrants were issued during the year ended June 30, 2006 and remain
        outstanding: 

Exercisable
                into 50,000 shares of common stock at $3.85 per share that were issued
                in
                September 2005 in conjunction with the acquisition of the technology
                from
                Lomasoft and expire in September 2010. 

Exercisable
                into 110,000 shares of common stock at $4.00 per share that were
                issued in
                October 2005 to the investment bankers that assisted with a private
                offering of the Company s common stock and expire October
                2010. 

F-18 

Note
        10 - SYS 401(k) Employee Stock Ownership Plan  

The
        Employee Stock Ownership Plan was established in July 1999 and restated
        effective July 2002 as the SYS 401(k) Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the
        Plan).  The Plan includes an employee stock ownership plan component (ESOP
        Component) and a 401(k) component. The ESOP Component is designed for the
        Company, at its discretion, to make contributions of cash or the Company s stock
        which is allocated to each eligible employee. The Board of Directors of SYS
        elected to provide a fully vested contribution to the ESOP Component equal
        to 3%
        of the compensation of all eligible employees in 2004 and none in 2006 and
        2005.
        The 401(k) component enables employees to defer a portion of their compensation
        and have it contributed to the 401(k) component of the Plan on their behalf.
        The
        Company, at its discretion, may make contributions to the 401(k) component
        of
        the Plan matching a specified portion of employee contributions. During the
        Plan
        year ended June 30, 2006, the Company elected to provide matching contributions
        equal to 100 percent of the employees  contributions rate up to 3 percent and
        then 50 percent of the next two percent of the employees  contribution rate.
        During the Plan year ended June 30, 2005, the Company elected to provide
        matching contributions equal to 100 percent of the employees  contributions rate
        up to 4 percent and then 50 percent of the next one percent of the employees 
contribution rate. 

In
        accordance with the Plan and until such time as the Company s stock began
        trading on a national securities exchange as defined by the IRS, which excludes
        over the counter bulletin board stocks, an independent appraiser valued the
        common stock at the end of each plan year for purposes of determining the
        number
        of shares to be contributed. Shares of the Company s stock commenced trading on
        the American Stock Exchange in January 2005. 

During
        fiscal 2006, the Company recorded $732,100 of expense related to its match
        of
        employee contributions to the 401(k) component of which $252,000 was paid
        in
        cash and the balance was paid with contributions of the Company s common stock
        of which 115,348 shares with a value of $448,000 were issued during the year
        and
        11,626 shares with a value of $32,000 were issued after June 30, 2006. During
        2005, the Company recorded $672,000 of expense related to its match of employee
        contributions to the 401(k) component of which $410,000 was paid in cash
        and the
        balance was paid with contributions of the Company s common stock of which
        51,131 shares with a value of $137,000 were issued during the year and 38,835
        shares with a value of $126,000 were issued after June 30, 2005. During 2004,
        the Company made contributions in common stock and cash to the ESOP Component
        totaling approximately $439,000, which was charged to compensation expense.
        The
        contribution consisted of cash of $271,000 and 95,878 shares of common stock
        with a fair value of $168,000.  

Note
        11 - Employee stock purchase plan  

During
          2003, the Board of Directors approved the 2003 Employee Stock Purchase
          Plan (the
          Purchase Plan). The purpose of the Purchase Plan is to provide employees
          of the
          Company and its designated subsidiaries with an opportunity to purchase
          common
          stock of the Company. The Purchase Plan provides for enrollment on the
          first day
          of a six-month period in which the employees can elect payroll deductions
          for
          the purchase of the Company s common stock. The exercise date of the Purchase
          Plan shall be the last day of the six month period and the purchase price
          shall
          be 85% of the fair market value of a share of common stock on the enrollment
          or
          exercise date, whichever is lower. 

The
          Purchase Plan allows employees to designate a portion of their base compensation
          to be used to purchase the Company s common stock at a purchase price per share
          at 85% of the lower of the fair market value on the first or last day of
          each
          offering period. Each offering period lasts six months. For the year ending
          June
          30, 2006, the Company recorded approximately $209,000 of compensation expense
          in
          accordance with SFAS No. 123(R) which is included in the total of share-based
          compensation expense. Additionally, under SFAS No. 123(R), the Purchase
          Plan
          qualifies for equity accounting and accordingly amounts withheld for issuance
          of
          shares are presented as equity in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R). Pursuant
          to
          APB 25, no compensation expense was recorded or recognized in 2005 and
          2004; and
          payroll withholdings totaling $196,000 as of June 30, 2005 and $60,000
          as of
          June 30, 2004 are classified as liabilities in the accompanying balance
          sheet
          and included in other accrued liabilities as of those respective dates
          for the
          issuance of approximately 88,719 and 35,945 shares of common stock,
          respectively.  

ESPP
          awards were valued using the Black-Scholes model with an expected life
          of 6
          months, expected volatility of 51.90%, a 3.90% risk free interest rate
          and no
          expected dividends. As of June 30, 2006, there was no unrecognized compensation
          cost related to the ESPP. The weighted average purchase price per common
          share
          issued under the Purchase Plan was $2.22 during 2006, $2.08 during 2005
          and
          $1.76 during 2004. During 2006 employees had payroll deductions totaling
          $550,000 to purchase shares through the Purchase Plan for which 232,630
          shares
          were issued during fiscal 2006.   

F-19 

Note
        12- Income taxes  

The
        provision (benefit) for income taxes in 2006, 2005 and 2004 consists of the
        following: 

Significant
        components of the Company s deferred tax assets and liabilities as of
        June 30, 2006 and 2005 are shown below: 

At
        June
        30, 2006, the Company had a California tax net operating loss carryforward
        of
        $669,000 available to offset future California taxable income. This tax net
        operating loss carryforward expires in 2012. The Federal tax net operating
        loss
        of $574,000 for the year ended June 30, 2006 will be carried back to offset
        taxable income reported for the year ended June 30, 2005. Additionally, the
        Company has applied for a refund of estimated tax payments made during fiscal
        2006. The refund is recorded as a receivable in the accompanying balance
        sheet
        as of June 30, 2006. 

The
        expected income tax provision (benefit), computed based on the Company s pre-tax
        income (loss) and the statutory Federal income tax rate (34%), is reconciled
        to
        the actual tax provision reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial
        statements as follows: 

F-20 

During
        fiscal 2006 and 2005, the Company recorded $61,000 and $239,000, respectively,
        as an increase to common stock related to the excess tax benefit recognized
        from
        stock option exercises. 

In
        assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers,
        on a
        periodic basis, whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all
        of
        the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating whether a valuation
        allowance was needed, management considered negative evidence and positive
        evidence as required under the provisions of SFAS No. 109. The primary negative
        evidence considered by management is the net loss incurred by the Company
        in the
        year ended June 30, 2006. This loss was primarily the result of impairment
        charges. The Company does not expect recurring losses in future periods.
        The
        positive evidence considered by management is the historical profitability
        of
        the Company's operations and the Company s forecasts of operations.
        Consequently, management concluded that the positive evidence regarding the
        realization of the deferred tax asset out weighed the negative evidence and
        that
        a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets was not deemed
        necessary. 

Note
        13- Business combinations  

Polexis  

On
        March
        31, 2004, the Company purchased all of the outstanding stock of Polexis in
        exchange for $3,136,000 in cash, the issuance of 697,973 shares of common
        stock
        and $1,375,000 of three-year convertible subordinated notes. The estimated
        fair
        value of the stock at the date of purchase was $2.25 per share.  The
        Company also incurred direct costs related to the acquisition of $458,000
        in
        2004 and $154,000 in 2005. 

Polexis
        was a provider of advanced data management software in support of enterprise
        operations and mission-critical decision making. This acquisition enables
        the
        Company to offer customers software tools that provide real-time access to
        and
        analysis of vital information, improving the speed and effectiveness of
        operations. 

The
        fair
        value of the net assets acquired was approximately $6.5 million. The Company
        recorded approximately $5.5 million in goodwill related to the Polexis
        acquisition. The goodwill is not subject to amortization and none of the
        amount
        assigned to goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. The goodwill is reported
        in
        the assets of the DSG segment. 

As
        part
        of the acquisition agreement, 50,762 shares were contingently issuable to
        certain selling shareholders if they remained continuously employed at the
        Company for the six months ended September 30, 2004. As of June 30,
        2004, the Company accrued $67,000 of compensation expense related to this
        contingency. The Company accrued an additional $67,000 of compensation expense
        in the first quarter of 2005 when the employees remained employed through
        September 30, 2004.  

The
        following table summarizes the determined fair values of the assets and
        liabilities of Polexis at the date of acquisition: 

Xsilogy  

On
        December 16, 2004, SYS acquired all of the assets and certain liabilities
        of
        Xsilogy, Inc. (Xsilogy), a privately held, San Diego-based provider of wireless
        sensor network technologies and applications. The acquisition of Xsilogy s
        wireless sensor technology represented the Company s first expansion into the
        products-oriented business and to customers outside of the Department of
        Defense
        (DoD). The assets purchased consisted principally of intellectual property
        and
        technology, inventory, fixed assets and certain other intangible assets.
        The
        total purchase price consisted of initial cash consideration of $345,000
        and the
        assumption of liabilities totaling $112,000. The Company also incurred $281,000
        of direct costs related to the acquisition.  

The
        fair
        market value of the total assets acquired exceeded the consideration paid
        and
        direct costs incurred as of June 30, 2005 resulting in a contingent
        consideration liability of $97,000 as of June 30, 2005. If future milestones
        are
        achieved, additional consideration will be paid. Accordingly the liability
        will
        be reduced and may result in the recording of goodwill. If future milestones
        are
        not achieved then the fair market value of the assets acquired would be reduced
        proportionately by the amount of any remaining contingent
        liability. 

The
        purchase agreement for Xsilogy, Inc., acquired in December 2004, provides
        for
        additional consideration to be earned upon achieving certain sales and operating
        results milestones. As a result of a determination during the quarter ended
        September 30, 2005 that certain milestones had been met as of June 30, 2005,
        Xsilogy shareholders were paid cash of $315,000 and issued 80,000 shares
        of SYS
        stock at a value of $376,000. The total of this consideration was first used
        to
        eliminate the contingent consideration liability of $97,000 and the balance
        of
        $594,000 was added to goodwill. The goodwill is reported in the assets of
        the
        PSSIG segment. 

F-21 

The
        following table summarizes the determined fair values of the assets acquired
        and
        liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition: 

Antin  

Effective
        January 3, 2005, the Company acquired of all of the outstanding securities
        of
        Antin. The transaction was completed pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of
        Merger
        (the Plan) by and among the Company, Shadow I, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary
        of the Company), Antin, and all of its stockholders. Antin is a defense
        contractor that provides information technology, C4ISR (command, control,
        communication, computer, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance),
        and
        technical support services. This acquisition furthers the Company s strategy of
        expanding its capabilities and broadening the customer base. 

The
        initial purchase price consisted of $49,000 cash paid at closing and $988,000
        of
        SYS common stock (323,971 shares based on $3.05 value at acquisition date).
        The
        Company incurred $236,000 of direct costs related to the acquisition, which
        were
        partially offset by the $124,000 of cash acquired from Antin. The Company
        also
        incurred $14,000 to register the shares issued in conjunction with the
        acquisition which was deducted from the fair value of the shares issued.
        The
        fair value of the net assets acquired was approximately $1.7 million and
        the
        Company recorded $1.9 million of goodwill, which is reported in the assets
        of
        the DSG segment. The goodwill is not subject to amortization and none of
        the
        amount assigned to goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.  

The
        Plan
        also provided for Antin to incur a $305,000 payroll tax liability as of the
        acquisition date related to issuing stock to its employees that was included
        in
        the liabilities of Antin and paid by the Company in April 2005. Pursuant
        to the
        Plan, an additional 314,027 shares were placed with an escrow agent, on behalf
        of the Antin stockholders, which shares are contingently transferable to
        the
        stockholders based upon the future operating performance of Antin through
        June 30, 2007. One of the operating performance criteria milestones was
        reached as of June 30, 2005 and, accordingly, 157,015 shares were transferred
        out of escrow to the Antin stockholders at a value of $408,000 (based on
        $2.60
        value at June 30, 2005). As of June 30, 2006 the remaining operating performance
        milestone was reached and the 157,012 shares held in escrow became issuable
        to
        the Antin shareholders. The $454,000 value of these shares based on the share
        price at June 30, 2006 ($2.89) was recorded as goodwill.  

On
        September 12, 2005, SYS s Board of Directors approved the issuance of an
        additional 25,130 shares of the Company s common stock to be issued to SYS
        employees that were former Antin stockholders (former Antin stockholders),
        in
        addition to those shares still being held in escrow, as a result of a
        modification of a working capital purchase price adjustment provided for
        in the
        purchase agreement. One-half of the shares were issued directly to the former
        Antin stockholders and the balance were placed in escrow and are issuable
        to the
        former Antin stockholders based upon meeting the required future operating
        performance of Antin through June 30, 2006. As a result of the terms of a
        modification to the original working capital purchase price adjustment, the
        Company recorded $103,000 of share-based compensation expense for the year
        ending June 30, 2006. The remaining 12,565 shares remained in escrow at June
        30,
        2006 and will be issued to the former Antin stockholders in fiscal
        2007. 

The
        following table summarizes the determined fair values of the assets and
        liabilities of Antin at the date of acquisition: 

F-22 

Web
        Tech  

Effective
        on August 22, 2005, the Company acquired the assets of Web Technologies,
        LLC
        (Web Tech). The acquisition was to further the Company s goal of acquiring
        technology companies which expand our products and customer base. The
        transaction was accounted for using the purchase method in accordance with
        SFAS
        No. 141, Business Combinations, whereby the net tangible and intangible assets
        acquired and liabilities assumed were recognized at their estimated fair
        market
        values at the date of acquisition. The consideration consisted of $140,000
        cash
        and an additional $100,000 due and paid on January 31, 2006. The fair value
        of
        the assets acquired were as follows: Equipment- $100,000, Intangible assets-
        $154,000, and Goodwill- $61,000. The intangible assets are being amortized
        over
        a weighted average of three years. The excess of the Company s total acquisition
        costs of $317,000, including transaction costs of $77,000, over the estimated
        fair value of the net assets acquired was allocated to goodwill.  The
        goodwill is not subject to amortization but the amount assigned to goodwill
        is
        deductible for tax purposes and is reported in the assets of the DSG segment.
        The purchase agreement provides for additional consideration to be earned
        upon
        sales of certain products and fees from services for two years from the date
        of
        acquisition. No additional consideration was earned or paid during fiscal
        2006. 

Technology
        Purchase  

On
        September 27, 2005, the Company entered into an agreement to purchase certain
        technology and intellectual property rights related to the ForceViz technology
        of Lomasoft Corporation. The purchase price consisted of $50,000 cash and
        warrants to purchase 50,000 shares of the Company s stock at a price of $3.87
        per share. Transaction costs totaled $19,000. The $64,000 fair value of the
        warrants was based on the Black Scholes model using a 34% expected volatility
        rate, 4% risk-free interest rate, an estimated life of five years and assumed
        no
        dividends. The agreement provides for the issuance of additional warrants
        if
        revenues from sales of the technology exceeded specified amounts or if the
        Company elected to continue marketing the technology as of June 30, 2006
        or June
        30, 2007.  There were no revenues through June 30, 2006 and the Company has
        elected to discontinue the marketing of the technology, therefore no additional
        warrants are due. The Company retains its ownership of the technology, but
        if
        requested, if may be required to issue a non-exclusive marketing license
        to
        Lomasoft. The total acquisition costs of $133,000, including $19,000 of
        transaction costs, has been allocated to intangible assets and is being
        amortized over 5 years. This transaction was accounted for as an asset purchase
        and not a business combination. 

As
        described in Note 2, in the fourth quarter of the year ended June 30, 2006
        the
        Company recorded a $114,000 impairment charge related to this
        technology. 

Logic
        Innovations  

On
        November 7, 2005, SYS acquired all of the outstanding stock of Logic
        Innovations, Inc. ( Logic ), a privately held, San Diego-based provider of
        solutions that help to ensure the fast and efficient delivery of digital
        audio,
        video and data to the broadcasting, communications and consumer electronics
        industries for approximately $4,031,000 in cash and stock. The acquisition
        enables the Company to provide enhanced capabilities to pursue a broader
        cross
        section of SYS s customer base. 

The
        transaction was completed pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger
        (Agreement) by and among the Company, Shadow II, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary
        of the Company), Logic and all of the stockholders of Logic. As a result
        of the
        acquisition, Shadow II became a wholly owned subsidiary of SYS and, therefore,
        is included in the consolidated financial results of SYS effective for periods
        subsequent to November 7, 2005. 

The
        merger consideration consisted of $2,000,000 in cash and 445,768 shares of
        restricted SYS common stock with a value of $2,031,000 based on an average
        closing price of $4.56.  Additional consideration consisting of $250,000
        and shares of stock valued at $250,000 based on the average closing stock
        price
        for the 10 days prior to June 30, 2006 may be earned subject to achieving
        a
        certain revenue level through June 30, 2006. The revenue level was not met
        and
        no additional consideration was paid under this earn-out provision. Additional
        cash consideration may be earned equal to the amount calculated EBITDA exceeds
        certain percentages of net revenue generated by Logic for the years ending
        June
        30, 2006, 2007 and 2008. For the year ending June 30, 2006, no additional
        consideration was paid as EBITDA did not exceed the required percentage of
        net
        revenue. 

The
        transaction was accounted for using the purchase method in accordance with
        SFAS
        No. 141, Business Combinations, whereby the net tangible and intangible assets
        acquired and liabilities assumed were recognized at their estimated fair
        market
        values at the date of acquisition. The following table summarizes the fair
        values of the assets and liabilities of Logic at the date of
        acquisition: 

The
        excess of the Company s total acquisition costs of $4,270,000, including
        transaction costs of $239,000, over the estimated fair value of the net assets
        acquired was allocated to goodwill as part of the PSSIG segment. The goodwill
        is
        not subject to amortization and none of the amount assigned to goodwill is
        deductible for tax purposes. 

F-23 

Acquisition
        of cVideo  

On
        December 2, 2005, SYS acquired all of the assets and assumed certain specified
        liabilities of cVideo, Inc., a San Diego based provider of interactive video
        and
        information analysis products for business surveillance and security
        applications. The acquisition enables the Company to provide enhanced
        capabilities to pursue a broader cross section of SYS s customer base. The
        purchase price consisted of approximately $1,868,000 of cash to the seller
        and
        various creditors as initial consideration and additional contingent
        consideration based on future revenue milestones through June 30, 2006. The
        additional consideration could be paid in cash or stock, depending on the
        level
        of revenues achieved through June 30, 2006. The revenue levels were not met
        during fiscal 2006 and no additional consideration was paid. 

The
        following table summarizes the fair values of the assets and liabilities
        of
        cVideo at the date of acquisition: 

The
        excess of the Company s total acquisition costs of $2,040,000, including
        transaction costs of $172,000, over the estimated fair value of the net assets
        acquired was allocated to goodwill.  The goodwill is reported as part of
        the PSSIG segment and is not subject to amortization. The amount assigned
        to
        goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. 

RBIS:  

Effective
        April 2, 2006, SYS acquired all of the outstanding stock of Reality Based
        IT
        Services, Ltd. ( RBIS ), a privately held, Laurel, Maryland-based provider of
        information systems consulting addressing information security issues for
        the
        U.S. Department of Defense for approximately $9,364,000 in cash and shares
        of
        SYS common stock. RBIS engineers develop, implement, and maintain convergent
        security services that are delivered by personnel with U.S. Top Secret
        government clearances. The acquisition enables the Company to provide enhanced
        capabilities to pursue a broader cross section of SYS s customer
        base. 

The
        transaction was completed pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA) by
        and
        between SYS, and the sole stockholder of RBIS. As a result of the acquisition,
        RBIS has become a wholly owned subsidiary of SYS. Therefore the results of
        the
        combined entities are included in the consolidated financial statements of
        SYS
        effective for periods subsequent to April 2, 2006. 

The
          consideration to the seller was funded with $5,636,000 of cash and 963,277
          shares of SYS common stock with a value of $3,728,000, or $3.87 per share,
          based
          on an average of the closing price of SYS s common stock for the period two days
          before and two days after the measurement date. Additional consideration
          may be
          earned based on the final determination of net assets acquired and subject
          to
          the achieving EBITDA milestones. As of June 30, 2006, $326,000 is accrued
          for
          the net asset adjustment and payment related to the EBITDA milestone for
          2006.
          The remaining EBITDA milestone provides for additional consideration up
          to
          $2,500,000 for exceeding $500,000 of EBITDA for the year ending June 30,
          2007.
          Furthermore, under the terms of the purchase agreement, the Company has
          agreed
          to pay additional consideration of up to $375,000 to cover the tax liability
          associated with the taxable gain to be reported in the seller s 2006 tax return.
          The additional consideration will be recorded when the liability becomes
          known
          and payable. The acquisition is being accounted for using the purchase
          method of
          accounting in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
          No.
          141, "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141"), whereby the total cost of the
          acquisition has been allocated to tangible and intangible assets acquired
          based
          upon a preliminary determination of fair values at the effective date of
          the
          acquisition. The goodwill is reported as part of the DSG segment and is
          not
          subject to amortization. The amount assigned to goodwill is deductible
          for tax
          purposes since the transaction will be treated as a taxable asset sale.

F-24 

The
        allocation of the purchase price is subject to refinement. The following
        table
        summarizes the preliminary allocation of the purchase price on the date of
        acquisition including transaction costs of $280,000. 

Pro
        Forma Results of Operations:  

        The
        following summary presents pro forma consolidated results of operations for
        the
        fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 as if the acquisitions
        described above had occurred as of the beginning of the periods presented
        and
        includes adjustments that were directly attributable to the transaction or
        were
        expected to have a continuing impact on the Company. 

The
        pro
        forma results are unaudited and for illustrative purposes only for the
        applicable periods, and do not purport to be indicative of the actual results
        which would have occurred had the transaction been completed as of the beginning
        of the periods, nor are they indicative of results of operations which may
        occur
        in the future.  

F-25 

Note
        14- Segment information:  

The
        Company s revenues in 2005 and 2004 were generated solely from engineering and
        technical services sold to various Federal, State and local government agencies.
        In 2006, the Company s revenues were primarily from engineering and technical
        services, but also included product sales that represented less than 5% of
        consolidated revenues. Revenues for all periods presented were from customers
        located in the U. S. The Company has no operations located outside of the
        U.
        S. 

Sales
        to
        the U.S. government, including both defense and non-defense agencies, and
        sales
        as a subcontractor as well as direct sales, aggregated approximately $52.5
        million, or 94% of consolidated revenues in fiscal year 2006. The Company
        did
        not have any significant non-government sales during fiscal 2005 and 2004.
        No
        single contract or individual customer accounted for more than 10% of total
        revenue for fiscal 2006 and 2005. In fiscal 2004, the Company had four customers
        that accounted for more than 10% of its consolidated revenues. These four
        customers were included in the DSG segment and accounted for 17%, 15%, 12%
        and
        12%, respectively, of the Company s consolidated revenues for fiscal 2004.

During
        the year ended June 30, 2005, the Company reported operating results and
        financial data for two reporting segments: Defense Solutions Group (DSG)
        and the
        Sensor Networking Systems and Products Group (SNG). DSG provided engineering,
        technical, and financial and management services primarily to U.S. Government
        customers. SNG was formed subsequent to the acquisition of the assets of
        Xsilogy
        to provide wireless sensor network technologies and applications to a broad
        base
        of customers including commercial and industrial customers as well as the
        U.S.
        Government. In March 2005, the Company formed a Public Safety and Security
        Division (PSS) as a component for DSG. Antin has been included in the DSG
        segment.  

Effective
        July 1, 2005 the activities of the SNG and PSS were reorganized into a new
        business group named the Public Safety, Security and Industrial Systems Group
        (PSSIG). As a result of this reorganization, this group became a reportable
        business segment for financial reporting purposes in fiscal year 2006. Revenues
        in this group include products and equipment sales, software, engineering
        and
        installation services for industrial and commercial customers as well as
        government customers. Prior year amounts have been reclassified to reflect
        the
        inclusion of SNG and PSS into the new PSSIG segment. Logic and cVideo are
        included in the PSSIG segment. RBIS and Webtech have been included in the
        DSG
        segment. 

Summarized
        financial information concerning our reportable business segments for the
        years
        ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are as follows: 

Interest
        expense and income taxes are not reported on an operating segment basis in
        accordance with the Company s method of internal reporting. 

F-26 

Note
        15- Legal matters:  

We
        are
        involved in legal actions in the normal course of business, including audits
        and
        investigations by various governmental agencies that result from our work
        as a
        governmental contractor. We are named as defendants in legal proceedings
        from
        time to time and we may assert claims from time to time. As of June 30, 2006,
        the Company is not involved in any litigation. 

16.
        Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited):  

Summarized
        quarterly consolidated financial information for fiscal 2006 and 2005 follows:

F-27 

Exhibit
        23.1  

Consent
        of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The
        Board
        of Directors 

        SYS: 

We
          consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement
          (No. 333-126065) of Form S-3 of  SYS of our report dated September 29,
          2006, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of SYS as of June
          30, 2006
          and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders 
equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
          June
          30, 2006, which report appears in the June 30, 2006 annual report on Form
          10-K
          of SYS. 

Our
            report dated September 29, 2006, contains an explanatory paragraph, which
            states the Company has adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
            Accounting Standards No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  and accordingly, has
            changed its method of accounting for share-based compensation. 

/S/
        KPMG
        LLP 

San
        Diego, California 

        September
        29, 2006 

Exhibit
        31.1  

CERTIFICATION
        OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

I,
        Clifton L. Cooke, Jr., certify that: 

1.
        I have
        reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of SYS; 

2.
        Based
        on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
        fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
        in
        light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
        with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.
        Based
        on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
        included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
        condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
        and
        for, the periods presented in this report. 

4.
        The
        registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing
        and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
        Act
        Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a)
        Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
        controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
        material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
        subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
        during the period in which this report is being prepared; and 

b)
        Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
        procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
        of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
        by this report based on such evaluation; and 

c) 
        Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
        financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
        quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
        that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
        the
        registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.
        The
        registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
        recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
        registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors
        (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
        All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
        of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
        to
        adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
        report financial information; and 

b) 
        Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
        who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
        reporting. 

Dated:
                  September 29, 2006 

By: 

/s/
                  Clifton L. Cooke, Jr. 

Clifton
                  L. Cooke, Jr. 

Chief
                  Executive Officer 

Exhibit
        31.2  

CERTIFICATION
        OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  

I,
        Edward
        M. Lake, certify that: 

1.
        I have
        reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of SYS; 

2.
        Based
        on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
        fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
        in
        light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
        with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.
        Based
        on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
        included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
        condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
        and
        for, the periods presented in this report. 

4.
        The
        registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing
        and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
        Act
        Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a)
        Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
        controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
        material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
        subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
        during the period in which this report is being prepared; and 

b)
        Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
        procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
        of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
        by this report based on such evaluation; and 

c)
        Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
        financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
        quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
        that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
        the
        registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.
        The
        registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
        recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
        registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors
        (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a)
        All
        significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
        of
        internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
        adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
        report financial information; and 

b)
        Any
        fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
        who
        have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
        reporting. 

Dated:
                  September 29, 2006 

By: 

/s/
                  Edward M. Lake 

Edward
                  M. Lake 

Chief
                  Financial Officer 

Exhibit
        32.1  

CERTIFICATION
        FURNISHED PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED  

PURSUANT
        TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

I,
        Clifton L. Cooke, Jr., Chief Executive Officer of SYS (the  Registrant ), do
        hereby certify pursuant to Rule 15d-14(b) of the Securities and Exchange
        Act of
        1934, as amended, and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United
        States Code that: 

(1)
        the
        Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Registrant for the year ended
        June 30, 2006 (the  Report ), to which this statement is filed as an exhibit,
        fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
        Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

(2)
        the
        information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
        the financial condition and results of operations of the
        Registrant. 

Dated:
                  September 29, 2006 

By: 

/s/
                  Clifton L. Cooke, Jr. 

Clifton
                  L. Cooke, Jr. 

Chief
                  Executive Officer 

A
        signed
        original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided
        to
        the Registrant and will be retained by the Registrant and furnished to the
        Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

Exhibit
        32.2  

CERTIFICATION
        FURNISHED PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED  

PURSUANT
        TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

I,
        Edward
        M. Lake, Chief Financial Officer of SYS (the  Registrant ), do hereby certify
        pursuant to Rule 15d-14(b) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
        amended, and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States
        Code
        that: 

(1)
        the
        Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Registrant for the year ended
        June 30, 2006 (the  Report ), to which this statement is filed as an exhibit,
        fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
        Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

(2)
        the
        information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
        the financial condition and results of operations of the
        Registrant. 

Dated:
                  September 29, 2006 

By: 

/s/
                  Edward M. Lake 

Edward
                  M. Lake 

Chief
                  Financial Officer 

A
        signed
        original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided
        to
        the Registrant and will be retained by the Registrant and furnished to the
        Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

