<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061108_10-K_edgar_data_723125_0001104659-06-072331_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1755199</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>252243</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>609</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1041397</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>41</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-072331.hdr.sgml : 20061108
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061107195642
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-072331
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060831
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061108
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061107

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000723125
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				751618004
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0902

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-10658
		FILM NUMBER:		061195266

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 S FEDERAL WAY
		STREET 2:		PO BOX 6
		CITY:			BOISE
		STATE:			ID
		ZIP:			83716-9632
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2083684000

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 KLIUVdzGrFBFi42RHpyxdQ5MlE9FP8VIwtNR6XUwOrr3rHbMFBYw5duLVjwyTDMR
 ZpbEy3OeMEw1Z1vYucXuUA==

 0001104659-06-072331.txt : 20061108

10-K
 1
 a06-20825_210k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION    Washington, D.C. 20549  

   FORM 10-K   

   (Mark One)   

   x                                    ANNUAL REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

   For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006   

   OR   

   o                                       TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

   For the transition period from                  to                     

   Commission file number 1-10658   

   Micron
Technology, Inc.   

  (Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered   

Common Stock, par
  value $.10 per share  

New York Stock
  Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  

   None   

  (Title of Class)  

  Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act. Yes   x   No   o  

  Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or 15(d) of the Act. Yes   o   No   x  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   x   No   o  

  Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   x  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.  

Large Accelerated Filer   x  

Accelerated Filer   o  

Non-Accelerated Filer   o  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act). Yes   o   No   x  

  The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, based upon the closing price of such stock on March 2, 2006,
as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, was approximately $6.5 billion. Shares
of common stock held by each executive officer and director and by each person
who owns 5% or more of the outstanding common stock have been excluded in that
such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate
status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.  

  The
number of outstanding shares of the registrant s common stock as of November 1,
2006, was 754,409,424.  

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   

  Portions
of the Proxy Statement for registrant s 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on December 5, 2006, are incorporated by reference into Part III
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

PART
I     

    Item 1.    
    Business     

   The following discussion
contains trend information and other forward-looking statements that involve a
number of risks and uncertainties.    Forward-looking statements include, but are
not limited to, statements such as those made in  Products  regarding the
Company s expectation regarding sales of DDR and DDR2 products in 2007,
continued growth in the NAND Flash and CMOS image sensor markets, significant
growth in the sales for NAND Flash memory and CMOS image sensors in future periods
and the introduction of new products in 2007; and in  Manufacturing  regarding
the Company s expectation to transition smaller line-width process technologies
in 2007.  The Company s actual
results could differ materially from the Company s historical results and those
discussed in the forward-looking statements. 
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include,
but are not limited to, those identified in  Item 1A. Risk Factors.   All period references are to the Company s
fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. 

   Corporate Information   

  Micron Technology,
Inc., and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to collectively as the  Company ),
a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 1978.  The Company s executive offices are located
at 8000 South Federal Way, Boise, Idaho 83716-9632 and its telephone number is
(208) 368-4000.  Information about the
Company is available on the internet at www.micron.com.  Copies of the Company s Annual Report on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well
as any amendments to these reports, are available through the Company s website
as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Also available on the Company s website are
its:  Corporate Governance Guidelines,
Governance Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Audit Committee
Charter and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.  Any amendments or waivers of the Company s
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will also be posted on the Company s
website at www.micron.com within four business days of the amendment or
waiver.  Copies of these documents are
available to shareholders upon request. 
Information contained or referenced on the Company s website is not
incorporated by reference and does not form a part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.  In February 2006, the Company s
Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was
not aware of any violation by the Company of the NYSE s Corporate Governance
Listing Standards.  

   Overview   

  The Company is an industry leading, global manufacturer and marketer of
semiconductor devices, principally DRAM and NAND Flash memory and CMOS image
sensors.  The Company s products are
offered in a wide variety of package and configuration options, architectures
and performance characteristics tailored to meet application and customer
needs.  Individual devices take advantage
of the Company s advanced silicon processing technology and manufacturing
expertise.  The Company aims to
continually introduce new generations of products that offer lower costs per
unit and improved performance characteristics. 
The Company operates in two segments, Memory and Imaging.  

     Memory:      The
Memory segment s primary products are DRAM and NAND Flash, which are key
components used in a broad array of electronic applications, including personal
computers, workstations, network servers, mobile phones, flash memory cards,
USB storage devices, MP3 players and other consumer electronics products.  The Company sells primarily to original
equipment manufacturers, distributors and retailers located around the world. 

  In 2006, the Company took several steps towards establishing a
significant presence in the NAND Flash market. 
In January 2006, the Company partnered with Intel Corporation ( Intel )
to form a NAND Flash manufacturing joint venture, IM Flash Technologies, LLC ( IMFT ),
which is a consolidated subsidiary of the Company.  IMFT initiated an accelerated build-out and
production ramp at two 300mm wafer fabrication facilities that are expected to
greatly increase the Company s production of NAND Flash in 2007.  Furthering its efforts to increase its share
of the NAND market, in June 2006, the Company acquired Lexar Media, Inc. ( Lexar ),
a designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of Flash memory products, in a
stock-for-stock merger.  The acquisition
of Lexar broadened the Company s NAND product offering, enhanced the Company s
retail presence and strengthened its portfolio of intellectual property.  

1     

Imaging:     The Imaging segment s primary products are CMOS
image sensors, which are key components used in a broad array of electronic
applications, including mobile phones, digital still cameras, webcams and other
consumer, security and automotive applications. 
The Company s primary customers are camera module integrators located
around the world.  During 2006, the
Company introduced several new leading-edge Imaging products and significantly
increased its Imaging production, enabling it to become a market leader for
CMOS image sensors. 

   Products   

     Memory:      The
Company s Memory segment has two primary product types:  DRAM and NAND Flash.  Sales of Memory products were 86%, 94% and
98% of the Company s total net sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

    Dynamic Random Access Memory ( DRAM )      :     DRAM
products are high-density, low-cost-per-bit, random access memory devices that
provide high-speed data storage and retrieval. 
DRAM products were 76%, 87% and 92% of the Company s total net sales in
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  The
Company offers DRAM products with a variety of performance, pricing and other
characteristics.  In recent years, the Company
has significantly increased its production and sales of specialty memory
products such as pseudo-static RAM, Mobile DRAM and Reduced Latency DRAM.  Specialty memory products are generally
targeted for networking, server and mobile applications that require specific
performance characteristics such as low power and low latency.  The transition to specialty memory products
has reduced the Company s concentration on standardized, high-volume products
sold for use as main memory in computers such as Double Data Rate Synchronous
DRAM ( DDR ) and DDR2. 

   DDR
and DDR2:    DDR
and DDR2 are standardized, high-density, high-volume, DRAM products that are
sold primarily for use as main system memory in computers.  DDR and DDR2 products offer high speed and
high bandwidth at a relatively low cost compared to other semiconductor memory
products.  DDR products were 26%, 44% and
57% of the Company s total net sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  DDR2 products were 25% and 14% the Company s
total net sales in 2006 and 2005, respectively. 
The Company expects that DDR and DDR2 products will continue to decrease
as a percentage of the Company s total net sales in 2007 due to significant
increases in sales of the Company s other products. 

  In response to
changes in the DRAM market, the Company has broadened its DDR and DDR2 product
offerings in recent years.  The Company
offers DDR products in 128 megabit ( Mb ), 256 Mb, 512 Mb and 1 gigabit ( Gb )
densities.  The Company also offers 256
Mb, 512 Mb, 1 Gb and 2 Gb DDR2 products. 
The Company expects that these densities will be necessary to meet
future customer demands for a broad array of products.  The Company also offers its DDR and DDR2
products in multiple configurations, speeds and package types.  In September 2006, the Company began sampling
a 1 Gb DDR3 device.  

   Synchronous
DRAM ( SDRAM ):    In
2006 and 2005, SDRAM was primarily used in networking devices, servers,
consumer electronics, communications equipment and computer peripherals as well
as memory upgrades to legacy computers. 
Sales of SDRAM products were 16%, 20% and 31% of the Company s total net
sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 
SDRAM sales have declined as personal computer manufacturers have
transitioned to DDR and DDR2 products. 
The decline has been partially offset by increased usage of SDRAM
products in other applications.  The Company offers 64 Mb, 128 Mb, 256 Mb and
512 Mb SDRAM products. 

   Pseudo-static
RAM ( PSRAM ):    PSRAM
products, marketed by the Company under the proprietary brand name CellularRAM , are DRAM products with an SRAM-like
interface.  PSRAM combines the minimal
power consumption of SRAM with a much lower cost-per-bit to provide an
economical alternative to SRAM.  PSRAM
products are used primarily in cellular phone applications.  The Company offers PSRAM products in 16 Mb,
32 Mb, 64 Mb and 128 Mb densities.  The
Company is the market leader in sales of PSRAM products.  Sales of PSRAM products were 8% and 7% of the
Company s total net sales in 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

   Mobile
DRAM:    Mobile DRAM
products are specialty DRAM memory devices designed for applications that
demand minimal power consumption, such as personal digital assistants (PDAs),
smart phones, GPS devices, digital still cameras and other handheld electronic
devices.  The Company sells SDRAM and DDR
mobile memory products in 64 Mb, 128 Mb, 256 Mb and 512 Mb densities.  The Company s mobile DRAM products feature
its proprietary Endur-IC  technology, which the Company believes provides
distinct advantages to its customers in terms of low power, high quality and
high reliability. 

2     

Reduced
Latency DRAM ( RLDRAM ):   
RLDRAM products are low-latency DRAM memory devices with high clock
rates targeted at network applications. 
The Company offers RLDRAM in 256 Mb and 288 Mb densities and expects to
begin shipping 576 Mb densities in 2007. 

    NAND
Flash Memory    :   Flash memory products are electrically
re-writeable, non-volatile semiconductor devices that retain memory content
when power is turned off.  The Company s
Flash efforts are concentrated on NAND Flash ( NAND ) devices which use
semiconductor technology similar to DRAM. 
NAND is ideal for mass-storage devices due to its faster erase
and write times, higher density, and lower cost per bit than NOR Flash, which
is the primary competing Flash architecture. 
The
market for NAND products has grown rapidly and the Company expects it to
continue to grow due to demand for removable and embedded storage devices.  Removable storage devices such as USB and
Flash memory cards are used with applications such as personal computers,
digital still cameras, MP3 players and mobile phones.  Embedded NAND-based storage devices are also
utilized in mobile phones and other personal and consumer applications. 

  NAND and DRAM
share common manufacturing processes, enabling t he Company
to leverage its product and process technologies and manufacturing
infrastructure.  The Company s NAND
designs feature a small cell structure that allows for higher densities for
demanding applications.  In 2006, the
Company offered NAND products in 1 Gb, 2 Gb, 4 Gb and 8 Gb densities and plans
to introduce 16 Gb densities in 2007.  In
2006, the Company s products were manufactured primarily using 72nm and 90nm
line-width process technology and began sampling products manufactured using
50nm line-width process technology.  In
addition, in 2006, the Company began sampling Multi-Level Cell ( MLC ) NAND
products, which double the bit density compared to single level cell
products.  NAND sales were 6% of the
Company s total net sales in 2006.  The
Company expects sales of NAND to increase significantly in 2007 and 2008 as it
ramps production from two 300mm facilities dedicated to NAND production and
recognizes sales by its Lexar subsidiary. 

  As a result of its
acquisition of Lexar, the Company began selling in the fourth quarter of 2006
high-performance digital media products and other flash-based storage products
through retail and original equipment manufacturing (OEM) channels.  The Company s digital media products include
a variety of Flash memory cards with a range of speeds, capacities and
value-added features.  The Company s
digital media products also include its JumpDrive  products, which are
high-speed, portable USB flash drives for consumer applications that serve a
variety of uses, including floppy disk replacement, digital media accessories
and a variety of connectivity products that link media products to PCs and
other electronic host devices.  The
Company also licenses its patented controller technology to other companies.  

  The Company offers
Flash memory cards in all major media formats currently used by digital cameras
and other electronic host devices, including: 
CompactFlash, Memory Stick, Secure Digital Card and the xD Picture
Card.  Many of CompactFlash, Memory Stick
and Memory Stick PRO products sold by the Company incorporate its patented
controller technology.  Other products, including
Secure Digital Card Flash memory cards and some JumpDrive products, incorporate
third party controllers.  The Company
also resells Flash memory products that are purchased from suppliers.  The Company offers Flash memory cards in a
variety of speeds and capacities.  The
Company also offers more advanced features in some Flash media card products
that provide additional performance advantages, such as Write Acceleration, or
WA technology, the ActiveMemory  System and LockTight  CompactFlash.  The Company sells products under its Lexar 
brand and also manufactures products that are sold under other brand
names.  The Company has a multi-year
agreement with Eastman Kodak to sell digital media products under the Kodak
brand name.  

    Imaging:    Complementary Metal-Oxide Semiconductor ( CMOS )
image sensors are the primary product of the Company s Imaging segment.  CMOS image sensors are semiconductor devices
that capture and process images into pictures or video for a variety of
consumer and industrial applications. 
The Company s CMOS image sensors are used in products such as cellular
phone cameras, digital still cameras, pill cameras for medical use, and in
automotive and other emerging applications. 
The
Company offers image sensors in a range of pixel resolutions from its VGA
(video graphics array) products to its higher resolution 3.1-megapixel
products.  The Company has begun sampling
a 5-megapixel sensor designed for use in digital still cameras and camera
phones that it expects to begin shipping in commercial volumes in 2007.  In 2006, the Company introduced an
8-megapixel sensor featuring a leading-edge pixel size of 1.75 square
microns.  Image sensors are sold either as
individual components or combined with integrated circuitry to create complete
camera system-on-a-chip ( SOC ) solutions. 

  The Company s CMOS
image sensors incorporating its  DigitalClarity  technology offered many advantages over other
CMOS image sensors and charge-coupled device ( CCD ) sensors in 2006, which
enabled the Company to become the leader in CMOS image sensor market
share.  The Company s DigitalClarity 
technology features  active pixels  enabling better sensor performance that
produces higher-quality images at faster frame rates.  The Company s low-leakage DRAM processes are
particularly well-suited for the manufacture of CMOS image sensors.  The Company s CMOS image sensors consume
substantially less power than CCD devices, a critical advantage in
battery-dependent portable device applications where most 

3     

image sensors are used.  By combining all camera functions on a single
chip, from the capture of photons to the output of digital bits, CMOS image
sensors reduce the part-count of a digital camera system, which in turn
increases reliability, eases miniaturization, and enables on-chip programming
of frame size, windowing, exposure and other camera parameters.  The Company s CMOS image sensors are also
capable of producing high-quality images in low-light conditions.  In 2006, the Company s CMOS image sensors 
active-pixel design architecture enabled the Company to achieve CMOS imager
performance that was comparable to high-end CCD sensors and better than that of
its competitor s CMOS image sensors.  

  Sales of Imaging
products were 14%, 6% and 2% of the Company s total net sales in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively.  The Company expects
its sales of CMOS image sensors to continue to grow in 2007 due to strong
demand and increases in the allocation of manufacturing capacity.  The overall market for image sensors is
expected to increase significantly over the next several years due to the
growth forecasted for applications such as phone cameras and digital still
cameras.  Additionally, CMOS image
sensors are expected to capture an increasing percentage of the overall image
sensor market.  

   Manufacturing   

  The Company s
manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, Italy, Japan, Puerto
Rico and Singapore.  The Company s
manufacturing facilities generally operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per
week.  Semiconductor manufacturing is extremely
capital intensive, requiring large investments in sophisticated facilities and
equipment.  Most semiconductor equipment
must be replaced every three to five years with increasingly advanced
equipment.  

   The Company s process for manufacturing semiconductor products is
complex, involving a number of precise steps, including wafer fabrication,
assembly and test.  Efficient production
of semiconductor products requires utilization of advanced semiconductor
manufacturing techniques and effective deployment of these techniques across
multiple facilities.  The primary
determinants of manufacturing cost are die size, number of mask layers, number
of fabrication steps and number of good die produced on each wafer.  Other factors that contribute to manufacturing
costs are wafer size, cost and sophistication of manufacturing equipment,
equipment utilization, process complexity, cost of raw materials, labor
productivity, package type and cleanliness of the manufacturing environment.  The Company is continuously enhancing
production processes, reducing die sizes and transitioning to higher density
products.  In 2006, t he Company
manufactured most of its DRAM products using
its 95 nanometer ( nm ) and 110nm line-width process technology and began
transferring production to 78nm line-width process technology.  The Company expects to continue to transfer
more of its DRAM production to 78nm and lower line-width process technology in
2007.  In 2006, the Company
manufactured most of its NAND Flash memory products using its 72nm and 90nm line-width process
technology.  The Company expects to begin
transferring its NAND production to 50nm line-width process technology in 2007.  

  Wafer fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean environment to
minimize dust and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants.  Despite stringent manufacturing controls,
dust particles, equipment errors, minute impurities in materials, defects in
photomasks and circuit design marginalities or defects can lead to wafers being
scrapped and individual circuits being nonfunctional.  Success of the Company s manufacturing
operations depends largely on minimizing defects and thereby maximizing yield
of high-quality circuits.  In this
regard, the Company employs rigorous quality controls throughout the
manufacturing, screening and testing processes. 
The Company is able to recover many nonstandard devices by testing and
grading them to their highest level of functionality.  

   After fabrication, silicon wafers are separated into individual die.  The Company sells semiconductor products in
both packaged and unpackaged (i.e.  bare die ) forms.  For packaged products, functional die are
sorted, connected to external leads and encapsulated in plastic packages.  The Company assembles products in a variety
of packages, including TSOP (thin small outline package), TQFP (thin quad flat
package) and FBGA (f ine pitch ball grid array).  Bare die products address
customer requirements for smaller form factors and higher memory densities and
provide superior flexibility.  Bare die
products are used in packaging technologies such as systems-in-a-package (SIPs)
and multi-chip packages (MCPs), which reduce the board area required.  

  The Company tests its products at various stages in the manufacturing
process, performs high temperature burn-in on finished products and conducts
numerous quality control inspections throughout the entire production
flow.  In addition, the Company uses its
proprietary AMBYX  line of intelligent test and burn-in systems to perform
simultaneous circuit tests of DRAM die during the burn-in process, capturing
quality and reliability data and reducing testing time and cost.  

4     

The Company assembles a significant portion of its memory products into
memory modules.  Memory modules consist
of an array of memory components attached to printed circuit boards ( PCBs )
that insert directly into computer systems or other electronic devices.  The Company s Lexar subsidiary contracts with
an independent foundry and assembly and testing organizations to manufacture flash
media products such as memory cards and USB devices.  

  In 2006, the
Company significantly increased its 300mm wafer production.  In 2007, the Company plans to continue
increasing its 300mm wafer manufacturing capacity as its IMFT subsidiary ramps
NAND Flash production at two 300mm facilities and the Company s consolidated
TECH joint venture converts its DRAM production to 300mm wafers.  

  In recent years
the Company has produced an increasingly broad portfolio of products, which
enhances the Company s ability to allocate resources to its most profitable
products but increases the complexity of the manufacturing process.  Although new product lines such as NAND
Flash, CMOS image sensors and specialty memory can be manufactured using
processes that are very similar to the processes for the Company s predominant
DRAM products, frequent conversions to new products and the allocation of
manufacturing capacity to more complex, smaller-volume parts can affect the
Company s cost efficiency.  The Company s
ability to competitively manufacture many of these products on existing 200mm
lines extends the useful life of this equipment.  

     IM Flash Technologies,
LLC ( IMFT ):     
IMFT, which began operations on January 6, 2006, is a joint venture
between the Company and Intel.  IMFT
manufactures NAND Flash memory products pursuant to NAND Flash designs
developed by the Company and Intel and licensed to the Company.  The parties share the output of IMFT
generally in proportion to their investment in IMFT.  The Company owned a 51% interest in IMFT at
August 31, 2006.  IMFT s financial
results are included in the consolidated financial statements of the
Company.  (See  Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
Joint Ventures   IM Flash Technologies, LLC. ) 

     TECH Semiconductor
Singapore Pte. Ltd. ( TECH )      :    TECH is a memory
manufacturing joint venture in Singapore among Micron Technology, Inc., the
Singapore Economic Development Board, Canon Inc. and Hewlett-Packard
Company.  The Company owned an
approximate 43% interest in TECH at August 31, 2006.  TECH s semiconductor manufacturing facilities
use the Company s product and process technology.  Subject to specific terms and conditions, the
Company has agreed to purchase all of the products manufactured by TECH.  TECH supplied approximately 25%, 25% and 30%
of the total megabits of memory produced by the Company in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  TECH s financial results
were included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company beginning
in the third quarter of 2006.  (See  Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Joint
Ventures   TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ) 

     MP
Mask Technology Center, LLC ( MP Mask ):       In the third quarter
of 2006, the Company formed a joint venture, MP Mask, with Photronics, Inc. ( Photronics )
to produce photomasks for leading-edge and advanced next generation
semiconductors.  The Company contributed
its then existing reticle manufacturing operation to the venture and sold a
49.99% interest in MP Mask to Photronics. 
The Company and Photronics also entered into supply arrangements wherein
the Company is expected to purchase a substantial majority of the reticles
produced by MP Mask.  The financial
results of MP Mask are included in the consolidated financial results of the
Company. 

   Availability of Raw Materials   

  The Company s
production processes require raw materials that meet exacting standards,
including several that are customized for, or unique to, the Company.  The Company generally has multiple sources of
supply; however, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering
certain raw materials that meet the Company s standards.  Various factors could reduce the availability
of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, lead
frames, molding compound and other materials. 
In addition, any transportation problems could delay the Company s
receipt of raw materials.  Although raw
materials shortages or transportation problems have not interrupted the Company s
operations in the past, shortages may occur from time to time in the
future.  Also, lead times for the supply
of raw materials have been extended in the past.  If the Company s supply of raw materials is
interrupted, or lead times are extended, results of operations could be
adversely affected.  

5     

Marketing and
Customers   

  The Company s products
are sold into computing and consumer, networking and telecommunications, and
imaging markets.  Approximately 70% of
the Company s net sales for 2006 were to the computing market, including
desktop PCs, notebooks, servers and workstations.  Sales to Hewlett-Packard Company exceeded 10%
of the Company s net sales in 2006. 
Sales to both Hewlett-Packard Company and Dell Computer Corporation
exceeded 10% of the Company s net sales in 2005 and 2004, and aggregated 23%
and 27% of the Company s net sales in 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  The Company
markets its semiconductor products primarily through its own direct sales
force.  The Company maintains inventory
at locations in close proximity to certain key customers to facilitate rapid
delivery of product shipments.  The
Company s products are also offered through independent sales representatives
and distributors.  Lexar sells NAND Flash
memory through retail and OEM channels and Crucial Technology offers its
products through the Company s web-based customer direct sales division.  The Company s products are offered under the
Micron, Lexar, SpecTek and Crucial brand names, and under other private
labels.  The Company maintains sales
offices in all of its primary markets around the world.  Independent sales representatives obtain
orders subject to final acceptance by the Company and are compensated on a
commission basis.  The Company makes
shipments against these orders directly to the customer.  Distributors carry the Company s products in
inventory and typically sell a variety of other semiconductor products,
including competitors  products.  

  The Company offers
products designed to meet the diverse needs of computing, server, automotive,
networking, security, commercial/industrial, consumer electronics, medical and
mobile applications.  Many of the Company s
customers require a thorough review or qualification of semiconductor products,
which may take several months.  As the
Company further diversifies its product lines and reduces the die sizes of
existing products, more products become subject to qualification which may
delay volume introduction of specific devices by the Company.  

   Backlog   

  Volatile industry
conditions make customers reluctant to enter into long-term, fixed-price
contracts.  Accordingly, new order
volumes for the Company s semiconductor products fluctuate significantly.  Orders are typically accepted with acknowledgment
that the terms may be adjusted to reflect market conditions at the date of
shipment.  Customers can change delivery
schedules or cancel orders without significant penalty.  For these reasons, the Company does not
believe that its order backlog as of any particular date is a reliable
indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period.  

   Product
Warranty   

  Because the design
and manufacturing process for semiconductor products is highly complex, it is
possible that the Company may produce products that do not comply with customer
specifications, contain defects or are otherwise incompatible with end
uses.  In accordance with industry practice, the Company generally
provides a limited warranty that its products are in compliance with Company
specifications existing at the time of delivery.  Under the Company s
general terms and conditions of sale, liability for certain failures of product
during a stated warranty period is usually limited to repair or replacement of
defective items or return of, or a credit with respect to, amounts paid for
such items.  Under certain circumstances the Company may provide more
extensive limited warranty coverage and general legal principles may impose
more extensive liability than that provided under the Company s general terms
and conditions.  

   Competition   

  The Company faces
intense competition in the semiconductor memory markets from a number of
companies, including Elpida Memory, Inc.; Hynix Semiconductor Inc.; Qimonda AG
ADS; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd; SanDisk Corporation; Toshiba Corporation and
emerging companies in Taiwan and China. 
Some of the Company s competitors are large corporations or
conglomerates that may have greater resources to withstand downturns in the
semiconductor markets in which the Company competes, invest in technology and
capitalize on growth opportunities.  The
Company s competitors seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields, reduce
die size and minimize mask levels in their product designs.  These factors have significantly increased
worldwide supply and put downward pressure on prices.  

6     

The Company faces
competition in the image sensor market from a number of suppliers of CMOS image
sensors including MagnaChip Semiconductor Ltd.; OmniVision Technologies, Inc.;
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd; Sony Corporation; STMicroelectronics NV; Toshiba
Corporation and from a number of suppliers of CCD image sensors including
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd.; Sharp Corporation and Sony
Corporation.  In recent periods, a number
of new companies have entered the CMOS image sensor market.  Competitors include many large domestic and
international companies that may have greater presence in key markets, better
access to certain customer bases, greater name recognition and more established
strategic and financial relationships than the Company.  

   Research and Development   

  To compete in the semiconductor memory industry, the
Company must continue to develop technologically advanced products and
processes.  The Company believes that
expansion of its semiconductor product offerings is necessary to meet expected
market demand for specific memory and imaging solutions.  The Company has several product design
centers around the world, the largest located at its corporate headquarters in
Boise, Idaho.  In addition, the Company
develops leading edge photolithography mask technology at its MP Mask joint
venture facility in Boise.  

  Research and
development ( R D ) expenses vary primarily with the number of development
wafers processed, the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to new product and
process development, and personnel costs. 
Because of the lead times necessary to manufacture its products, the
Company typically begins to process wafers before completion of performance and
reliability testing.  The Company deems
development of a product complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed
and tested for performance and reliability. 
R D expenses can vary significantly depending on the timing of
product qualification.  The Company and
Intel share R D process and design costs for NAND Flash equally.  Product development costs are recorded as
R D expense.  

  The Company s
process technology R D efforts are focused primarily on development of
successively smaller line-width process technologies which are designed to
facilitate the Company s transition to next generation memory products and CMOS
image sensors.  Additional process
technology R D efforts focus on specialty memory products (including PSRAM,
mobile SDRAM and reduced latency DRAM) and new manufacturing materials.  Product design and development efforts are
concentrated on the Company s 1 Gb and 2 Gb DDR, DDR2 and DDR3 products as well
as high density and mobile NAND Flash memory (including multi-level cell
technology), CMOS image sensors and specialty memory products.  The Company s R D expenses were $656
million, $604 million and $755 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

   Geographic Information   

  Sales to customers
outside the United States totaled $3.6 billion for 2006 and included $1.0
billion in sales to China, $719 million in sales to Europe, $494 million in
sales to Japan and $1.1 billion in sales to the rest of the Asia Pacific
region, excluding China and Japan. 
International sales totaled $3.2 billion for 2005 and $2.6 billion for
2004.  As of August 31, 2006, the Company
had net property, plant and equipment of $4.4 billion in the United States,
$867 million in Singapore, $269 million in Japan, $318 million in Italy and $12
million in other countries.  

   Patents and Licenses   

  In recent years,
the Company has been recognized as a leader in volume and quality of patents
issued.  As of August 31, 2006, the
Company owned approximately 14,500 U.S. patents and 1,500 foreign patents.  In addition, the Company has numerous U.S.
and foreign patent applications pending. 
The Company s patents have terms expiring through 2025.  

  The Company has a
number of patent and intellectual property license agreements.  Some of these license agreements require the
Company to make one time or periodic payments. 
The Company may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew
existing license agreements in the future. 
The Company is unable to predict whether these license agreements can be
obtained or renewed on acceptable terms.  

7  

Employees   

  As of August 31, 2006,
the Company had approximately 23,500 employees, including approximately 14,100
in the United States, 5,500 in Singapore, 2,000 in Italy, 1,400 in Japan and
300 in the United Kingdom.  The Company s
employees include 2,400 employees in its TECH joint venture that are located in
Singapore and 800 employees in its IMFT joint venture that are located in the
United States.  The Company added
approximately 300 employees from its acquisition of Lexar Media, Inc. in the
fourth quarter of 2006.  The Company s
employees in Italy are represented by labor organizations that have entered
into national and local labor contracts with the Company.  The Company s employment levels can vary
depending on market conditions and the level of the Company s production,
research and product and process development. 
Many of the Company s employees are highly skilled, and the Company s
continued success depends in part upon its ability to attract and retain such
employees.  The loss of key Company personnel
could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, results of
operations or financial condition.  

   Environmental Compliance   

  Government
regulations impose various environmental controls on raw materials and
discharges, emissions and solid wastes from the Company s manufacturing
processes.  In 2006, the Company s wafer
fabrication facilities continued to conform to the requirements of ISO 14001
certification.  To continue
certification, the Company met annual requirements in environmental policy,
compliance, planning, management, structure and responsibility, training,
communication, document control, operational control, emergency preparedness
and response, record keeping and management review.  While the Company has not experienced any
materially adverse effects on its operations from environmental regulations,
changes in the regulations could necessitate additional capital expenditures,
modification of operations or other compliance actions.  

   Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant   

  Officers of the
Company are appointed annually by the Board of Directors.  Directors of the Company are elected annually
by the shareholders of the Company.  Any
directors appointed by the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the Board
serve until the next election by the shareholders.  All officers and directors serve until their
successors are duly chosen or elected and qualified, except in the case of
earlier death, resignation or removal.  

  As of August 31,
2006, the following executive officers and directors of the Company were
subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

Name   

Age   

Position   

Mark W. Adams  

42  

Vice President of Digital Media Products  

Steven R. Appleton  

46  

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President  

Kipp A. Bedard  

47  

Vice President of Investor Relations  

Jan du Preez  

49  

Vice President of Memory Marketing  

D. Mark Durcan   

45  

Chief Operating Officer   

Robert J. Gove  

53  

Vice President of Imaging Group  

Jay L. Hawkins  

46  

Vice President of Operations  

Roderic W. Lewis  

51  

Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and
  Corporate Secretary  

Michael W. Sadler  

49  

Vice President of Worldwide Sales  

Brian J. Shields  

45  

Vice President of Worldwide Wafer Fabrication  

Brian M. Shirley  

37  

Vice President Memory  

Wilbur G. Stover, Jr.  

53  

Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial
  Officer  

Teruaki Aoki  

65  

Director  

James W. Bagley  

67  

Director  

Mercedes Johnson  

52  

Director  

Robert A. Lothrop  

80  

Director  

Lawrence N. Mondry  

46  

Director  

Gordon C. Smith  

77  

Director  

Robert E. Switz  

60  

Director  

William P. Weber  

66  

Director  

8     

Mark W.
Adams   joined the Company in June 2006.  From January 2006 until he joined the
Company, Mr. Adams was the Chief Operating Officer of Lexar Media, Inc.  Mr. Adams served as the Vice President of
Sales and Marketing for Creative Labs, Inc. from December 2002 to January
2006.  From March 2000 to September 2002,
Mr. Adams was the Chief Executive Officer of Coresma, Inc.  Mr. Adams holds a BA in Economics from Boston
College and an MBA from Harvard Business School. 

   Steven R.
Appleton   joined the Company in February 1983 and has served
in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Appleton first became an officer of the
Company in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions with the
Company since that time.  From April 1991
until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Appleton has served on the Company s
Board of Directors.  Since September
1994, Mr. Appleton has served as the Chief Executive Officer, President and
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company.  Mr. Appleton is a member of the Board of
Directors of National Semiconductor Corporation.  Mr. Appleton holds a BA in Business Management
from Boise State University. 

   Kipp A.
Bedard   joined the Company in November 1983 and has served in
various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Bedard first became an officer of the
Company in April 1990 and has served in various officer positions since that
time.  Since January 1994, Mr. Bedard has
served as Vice President of Investor Relations for the Company.  Mr. Bedard holds a BBA in Accounting from
Boise State University. 

   Jan
du Preez   joined the Company in June 2002 as an officer and
has served in various officer positions since that time.  Mr. du Preez served as the President of
Infineon Technologies North America Corporation from August 2000 until he
joined the Company in June 2002.  From
October 1996 through July 2000, Mr. du Preez served as the Vice President of
Memory Products Group for Infineon Technologies North America Corporation
(formerly Siemens Semiconductors).  Mr.
du Preez holds Bachelors Degrees in Public Administration and Business
Economics from the University of Pretoria and a Masters Degree in Commerce from
Rand University. 

   D. Mark
Durcan   joined the Company in June 1984 and has served in
various technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries since that
time.  Mr. Durcan was appointed Chief
Operating Officer in February 2006.  Mr.
Durcan has been an officer of the Company since 1996.  Mr. Durcan holds a BS and MChE in Chemical
Engineering from Rice University. 

   Robert
J. Gove   joined the Company in March 1999 as Senior Director
of Engineering and has served in various positions with the Company.  In March 2002, he was appointed Vice
President of Imaging.  Prior to joining
the Company, Dr. Gove served as Vice President, Engineering, of Equator
Technologies, Inc.  Dr. Gove holds a BS
in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and an MS in
Electrical Engineering and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern
Methodist University. 

   Jay L.
Hawkins   joined the Company in March 1984 and has served in
various manufacturing positions for the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Hawkins served as Vice President,
Manufacturing Administration from February 1996 through June 1997, at which
time he became Vice President of Operations. 
Mr. Hawkins holds a BBA in Marketing from Boise State University. 

   Roderic
W. Lewis   joined the Company in August 1991 and has served in
various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Lewis has served as Vice President of
Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 1996.  Mr. Lewis holds a BA in Economics and Asian
Studies from Brigham Young University and a JD from Columbia University School
of Law. 

   Michael
W. Sadler   joined the Company in September 1992 as a Regional Sales Manager and has held various
sales and marketing positions since that time. 
Mr. Sadler became an officer of the Company in July 1997 and has served
as Vice President of Worldwide Sales since November 2001.  Mr. Sadler holds a BS in Information Systems
and an MBA from the University of Santa Clara. 

   Brian J. Shields  
joined the Company in November 1996 and has served in various operational
positions with the Company.  Mr. Shields
first became an officer of the Company in March 2003. 

   Brian M. Shirley  
joined the Company in August 1992 and has served in various technical positions
with the Company.  Mr. Shirley became an
officer of the Company in February 2006. 
Mr. Shirley holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from Stanford
University. 

9     

Wilbur G.
Stover, Jr.   joined the Company in June 1989 and has served in
various financial positions with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Since September 1994, Mr. Stover has served
as the Company s Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Stover holds a BA in Business
Administration from Washington State University. 

   Teruaki
Aoki   is President of Sony University and Managing Director of
Sony Foundation for Education.  Dr. Aoki
has been associated with Sony since 1970 and has held various executive
positions, including Senior Executive Vice President and Executive Officer of
Sony Corporation as well as President and Chief Operating Officer of Sony
Electronics, a U.S. subsidiary.  Dr. Aoki
holds a Ph.D. in Material Sciences from Northwestern University as well as a BS
in Applied Physics from the University of Tokyo.  He was elected as an IEEE Fellow in 2003 and
serves as Advisory Board Member of Kellogg School of Management of Northwestern
University. 

   James W.
Bagley   became the Executive Chairman of Lam Research
Corporation ( Lam ), a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, in
June 2005.  From August 1997 through June
2005, Mr. Bagley served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Lam.  Mr. Bagley is a member of the Board
of Directors of Teradyne, Inc.  He has
served on the Company s Board of Directors since June 1996.  Mr. Bagley holds a MS and BS in Electrical
Engineering from Mississippi State University. 
Mr. Bagley serves as the presiding director of executive sessions of the
Company s Board of Directors. 

   Mercedes
Johnson   has served
as the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Avago Technologies
Limited, a semiconductor company, since December 2005.  Prior to that, she served as the Senior
Vice President, Finance, of Lam from June 2004 to January 2005 and as Lam s
Chief Financial Officer from May 1997 to May 2004.  Before joining Lam, Ms. Johnson spent 10
years with Applied Materials, Inc., where she served in various senior
financial management positions, including vice president and worldwide
operations controller.  Ms. Johnson holds
a degree in accounting from the University of Buenos Aires and currently serves
on the Board of Directors for Intersil Corporation.  Ms. Johnson is the Chairman of
the Board s Audit Committee. 

   Robert A.
Lothrop   served as Senior Vice President of J.R. Simplot
Company, an agribusiness company, from January 1986 until his retirement in
January 1991.  From August 1986 until
July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Lothrop has served on the Board of Directors
of the Company.  Mr. Lothrop holds a BS
in Engineering from the University of Idaho. 

   Lawrence
N. Mondry   served as the Chief Executive Officer of CompUSA
Inc. from November 2003 to May 2006.  Mr.
Mondry joined CompUSA in 1990 as Senior Vice President and General Merchandise
Manager.  He was promoted to Executive
Vice President-Merchandising in 1993, and President and Chief Operating Officer
of CompUSA Stores in 2000.  Mr. Mondry
currently serves on the Board of Directors for Golfsmith, Inc.  Mr. Mondry is the Chairman of the Board s
Compensation Committee. 

   Gordon C.
Smith   has served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of SFG LLC, a holding company for agriculture operations and other investments,
since January 2005.  Mr. Smith has also
served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of G.C. Smith LLC since May
2000.  From July 1980 to March 1994, Mr.
Smith served in various management positions with J.R. Simplot Company,
including four years as President and Chief Executive Officer, and seven years
as Chief Financial Officer.  From
February 1982 until February 1984 and since September 1990, he has served on
the Company s Board of Directors.  Mr.
Smith holds a BS in Accounting from Idaho State University. 

   Robert E.
Switz   is currently President and CEO of ADC
Telecommunications, Inc., a supplier of network infrastructure products and
services.  Mr. Switz has been with ADC
since 1994 and prior to his current position, served ADC as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer. 
Mr. Switz holds an MBA from the University of Bridgeport as well as a
degree in marketing/economics from Quinnipiac University.  Mr. Switz also serves as a director on the
board of Broadcom Corporation.  Mr. Switz
is the Chairman of the Board s Governance Committee. 

   William
P. Weber   served in various capacities with Texas Instruments
Incorporated, a semiconductor manufacturing company, and its subsidiaries from
1962 until April 1998.  From December
1986 until December 1993, he served as the President of Texas Instruments 
worldwide semiconductor operations and from December 1993 until his retirement
in April 1998, he served as Vice Chairman of Texas Instruments
Incorporated.  He has served on the
Company s Board of Directors since July 1998. 
Mr. Weber holds a BS in Engineering from Lamar University and a MS in
Engineering from Southern Methodist University. 

  There is no family
relationship between any director or executive officer of the Company.  

10     

Item 1A.       Risk
Factors   

   In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this
Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results
or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward- looking
statements made by or on behalf of the Company.   

   We
have experienced dramatic declines in average selling prices for our
semiconductor memory products which have adversely affected our business.   

  Per megabit average
selling prices for our semiconductor memory products decreased 34% in 2006 as
compared to 2005.  In recent years, we
have also experienced annual decreases in per megabit average selling prices for
our memory products including:  24% in
2005, 17% in 2003, 53% in 2002 and 60% in 2001. 
At times, average selling prices for our memory products have been below
our costs.  If average selling prices for
our memory products decrease faster than we can decrease per megabit costs, our
business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially
adversely affected.  

   Increased
worldwide semiconductor memory production or lack of demand for semiconductor
memory could lead to further declines in average selling prices.   

  The transitions to
smaller line-width process technologies and 300mm wafers in the industry have
resulted in significant increases in the worldwide supply of semiconductor
memory and will likely lead to future increases.  Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor
memory also result from semiconductor memory fab capacity expansions, either by
way of new facilities, increased capacity utilization or reallocation of other
semiconductor production to semiconductor memory production.  We and several of our competitors have
announced plans to increase production through construction of new facilities
or expansion of existing facilities. 
Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory, if not
accompanied with commensurate increases in demand, would lead to further
declines in average selling prices for our products and would materially
adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

   We
may be unable to reduce our per megabit manufacturing costs at the same rate as
we have in the past.   

  Historically, our
gross margin has benefited from decreases in per unit manufacturing costs
achieved through improvements in our manufacturing processes, including
reducing the die size of our existing products. 
In future periods, we may be unable to reduce our per unit manufacturing
costs or reduce these costs at historical rates due to strategic product
diversification decisions affecting product mix, the ever increasing complexity
of manufacturing processes, changes in process technologies or products which
inherently may require relatively larger die sizes.  Per unit manufacturing costs may also be
affected by the relatively smaller production quantities and shorter product
lifecycles of Imaging and certain specialty memory products.  

   Our
formation of IMFT and the resulting plans to significantly increase our NAND
Flash memory production has numerous risks.   

  On January 6, 2006, we
initiated operations of the IMFT joint venture with Intel and as a result we
plan to significantly increase our NAND Flash production in future
periods.  The IMFT agreement and our NAND
Flash strategy in general require substantial investment in capital
expenditures for equipment and new facilities. 
It also requires significant investments in research and development as
well as investments to grow and develop new operations at multiple sites.  These investments involve numerous
risks.  We are required to devote a
significant portion of our existing semiconductor manufacturing capacity to the
production of NAND Flash instead of the Company s other products.  In conjunction with the IMFT agreement, we
entered into a contract with Apple Corporation to provide NAND Flash products
for an extended period of time at contractually determined prices.  We currently have a relatively small share of
the world-wide market for NAND Flash.  

  Our NAND Flash
investments and commitments involve numerous risks, and may include the
following:  

                        increasing our exposure to changes in
average selling prices for NAND Flash; 

                        difficulties in establishing new
production operations at multiple locations; 

                        increasing capital expenditures to
increase production capacity and modify existing processes to produce NAND
Flash; 

                        increasing debt to finance future
investments; 

11     

diverting management s attention from
DRAM and CMOS Image sensor operations; 

                        managing larger operations and
facilities and employees in separate geographic areas; and 

                        hiring and retaining key employees. 

  Our NAND Flash
strategy may not be successful and could materially adversely affect our
business, results of operations or financial condition.  

   The
future success of our Imaging business will be dependent on continued market
acceptance of our products and the development, introduction and marketing of
new Imaging products.   

  Our Imaging business has
grown rapidly in the recent periods. 
Sales of Imaging products increased substantially and represented 14% of
our net sales in 2006.  Our imaging
products have higher gross margins than the recent overall gross margins from
our memory products.  As we continue to
expand our imaging business, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
maintain these growth rates or gross margins. 
The continued success of our Imaging products will depend on a number of
factors, including:  

                        development of products that maintain
a technological advantage over the products of our competitors; 

                        accurate prediction of market
requirements and evolving standards, including pixel resolution, output
interface standards, power requirements, optical lens size, input standards and
other requirements; 

                        timely completion and introduction of
new Imaging products that satisfy customer requirements; 

                        timely achievement of design wins
with prospective customers, as manufacturers may be reluctant to change their
source of components due to the significant costs, time, effort and risk
associated with qualifying a new supplier; and 

                        efficient, cost-effective
manufacturing as we transition to new products and higher volumes. 

   We
may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and
make adequate capital investments.   

  Our cash flows from
operations depend primarily on the volume of semiconductor memory and CMOS
image sensors sold, average selling prices and per unit manufacturing
costs.  To develop new product and
process technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and
maintain product quality, we must make significant capital investments in
manufacturing technology, facilities and capital equipment, research and
development, and product and process technology.  Cash and investments of IMFT and TECH are
generally not available to finance our other operations.  In addition to cash provided by operations,
we have from time to time utilized external sources of financing.  Depending on general market and economic
conditions or other factors, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash
flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments.  

   The
semiconductor industry is highly competitive.   

  We face intense
competition in the semiconductor memory market from a number of companies,
including Elpida Memory, Inc.; Hynix Semiconductor Inc.; Qimonda AG ADS;
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.; SanDisk Corporation; Toshiba Corporation and
from emerging companies in Taiwan and China, who have announced plans to
significantly expand the scale of their operations.  Some of our competitors are large
corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources to withstand
downturns in the semiconductor markets in which we compete, invest in technology
and capitalize on growth opportunities. 
Our competitors seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields,
reduce die size and minimize mask levels in their product designs.  These factors have significantly increased
worldwide supply and put downward pressure on prices.  

12     

We face
competition in the image sensor market from a number of suppliers of CMOS image
sensors including MagnaChip Semiconductor Ltd.; OmniVision Technologies, Inc.;
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd; Sony Corporation; STMicroelectronics NV; Toshiba
Corporation and from a number of suppliers of CCD image sensors Matsushita
Electric Industrial Co., Ltd.; Sharp Corporation and Sony Corporation.  In recent periods, a number of new companies
have entered the CMOS image sensor market. 
Competitors include many large domestic and international companies that
have greater presence in key markets, better access to certain customer bases,
greater name recognition and more established strategic and financial
relationships than the Company.  

   We
may have difficulty integrating the operations of Lexar.   

  If we are unable
to successfully combine and integrate the Lexar operations, we may not be able
to realize many of the anticipated benefits of the merger, which could harm our
results of operations.  In order to
realize the benefits of the merger, we will need to timely integrate the
technology, operations, and personnel of Lexar. 
Integrating the two companies will be a complex, time-consuming and
expensive process that, even with proper planning and implementation, could
significantly disrupt the businesses of Micron and Lexar.  The challenges involved in this integration
include, combining product and service offerings, optimizing inventory
management over a broader distribution chain, and preserving customer, supplier
and other important relationships of both Micron and Lexar.  If we are not able to successfully integrate
our operations with those of Lexar, our results of operations could be
materially adversely affected.  

   Our
internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected by
material weaknesses in Lexar s internal controls.   

  In Lexar s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2005, and its Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2006, Lexar reported
material weaknesses with respect to its revenue recognition controls and
inventory accounting controls.  These
control deficiencies resulted in audit adjustments to revenues, accounts
receivable, cost of product revenues, deferred revenue, sales related accruals
and inventory in Lexar s 2005 consolidated financial statements.  As a result of these material weaknesses,
Lexar concluded in its Annual Report and Quarterly Report that its control over
financial reporting was not effective as of the end of the periods covered by
the reports.  While prior to the close of
the merger Lexar continued to take steps to remediate these material
weaknesses, there can be no assurance that we will be able to completely
remediate these material weaknesses such that we will be able to conclude that
our internal control over financial reporting is effective.  We began consolidating the financial results
of Lexar on June 22, 2006; however, due to the recency of the acquisition, the internal
control over financial reporting relating to Lexar was exempt from testing and
evaluation as of August 31, 2006.  To the
extent we do not remediate the material weaknesses, the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting may be adversely affected.  

   Our
net operating loss carryforwards may be limited as a result of the merger.   

  Micron and Lexar
had net operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes prior to
the merger and both entities had provided significant valuation allowances
against the tax benefit of such losses as well as certain tax credit
carryforwards.  Utilization of these net
operating losses and credit carryforwards are dependent upon us achieving
profitable results following the Lexar merger. 
As a consequence of the merger, as well as earlier issuances of common
stock consummated by both companies and business combinations by the Company,
utilization of the tax benefits of these carryforwards are subject to
limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.  The determination of the limitations is
complex and requires significant judgment and analysis of past
transactions.  Accordingly, some portion
or all of these carryforwards may not be available to offset any future taxable
income.  

   Our resellers receive
price protections which may have an adverse affect on our gross margins.   

  Nearly all of our Lexar
sales are made through resellers which traditionally have been provided price
protection.  In an environment of slower
demand and abundant supply of products, price declines and channel promotions
expenses are more likely to occur. 
Further, in this environment, high channel inventory may result in
substantial price protection charges. 
These price protection charges have the effect of reducing gross sales
and gross margin.  We expect to continue
to incur price protection charges for the foreseeable future due to competitive
pricing pressures and, as a result, our revenues and gross margins could be
adversely affected.  

13     

Changes in foreign
currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, results
of operations or financial condition.   

  Our financial statements
are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are reported in U.S.
dollars.  Across our multi-national
operations, there are transactions and balances denominated in other
currencies, primarily the yen and euro.  The Company estimates that, based on its
assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar as of
August 31, 2006, a 1% change in the exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar would
result in foreign currency gains or losses of approximately $1 million for the
yen and $1 million for the euro. 
In the event that the U.S. dollar weakens significantly compared to the
yen or euro, our results of operations or financial condition will be adversely
affected.  

   New
product development may be unsuccessful.   

  We are developing new
products that complement our traditional memory products or leverage their
underlying design or process technology. 
We have made significant investments in product and process technologies
and anticipate expending significant resources for new semiconductor product
development over the next several years. 
The process to develop NAND Flash, Imaging and certain specialty memory
products requires us to demonstrate advanced functionality and performance,
many times well in advance of a planned ramp of production, in order to secure
design wins with our customers.  There
can be no assurance that our product development efforts will be successful,
that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture these new products, that
we will be able to successfully market these products or that margins generated
from sales of these products will recover costs of development efforts.  

   An adverse determination
that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property
rights of others could materially adversely affect our business, results of
operations or financial condition.   

  As is typical in
the semiconductor and other high technology industries, from time to time,
others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our products or
manufacturing processes infringe their intellectual property rights.  In this regard, we are engaged in litigation
with Rambus, Inc. ( Rambus ) relating to certain of Rambus  patents and certain
of our claims and defenses.  On August
28, 2000, we filed a complaint (subsequently amended) against Rambus in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware seeking monetary damages and
declaratory and injunctive relief.  Among
other things, our amended complaint alleges violation of federal antitrust
laws, breach of contract, fraud, deceptive trade practices, and negligent
misrepresentation.  The complaint also
seeks a declaratory judgment (a) that certain Rambus patents are not infringed
by us, are invalid, and/or are unenforceable, (b) that we have an implied
license to those patents, and (c) that Rambus is estopped from enforcing those
patents against us.  On February 15,
2001, Rambus filed an answer and counterclaim in Delaware denying that we are
entitled to relief, alleging infringement of the eight Rambus patents named in
our declaratory judgment claim, and seeking monetary damages and injunctive
relief.  A number of other suits are
pending in Europe alleging that certain of our SDRAM and DDR SDRAM products
infringe various of Rambus  country counterparts to its European patent 525
068, including:  on September 1, 2000,
Rambus filed suit against Micron Semiconductor (Deutschland) GmbH in the
District Court of Mannheim, Germany; on September 22, 2000, Rambus filed a
complaint against us and Reptronic (a distributor of our products) in the Court
of First Instance of Paris, France; and on September 29, 2000, we filed suit
against Rambus in the Civil Court of Milan, Italy, alleging invalidity and non-infringement.  In addition, on December 29, 2000, we filed
suit against Rambus in the Civil Court of Avezzano, Italy, alleging invalidity
and non-infringement of the Italian counterpart to European patent 1 004 956.  Additionally, other suits are pending
alleging that certain of our DDR SDRAM products infringe Rambus  country
counterparts to its European patent 1 022 642, including:  on August 10, 2001, Rambus filed suit against
us and Assitec (an electronics retailer) in the Civil Court of Pavia, Italy;
and on August 14, 2001, Rambus filed suit against Micron Semiconductor
(Deutschland) GmbH in the District Court of Mannheim, Germany.  In the European suits against us, Rambus is
seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief. 
Subsequent to the filing of the various European suits, the European
Patent Office declared Rambus  525 068 and 1 004 956 European patents invalid
and revoked the patents.  On January 13,
2006, Rambus filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California alleging infringement of eighteen Rambus
patents.  We also are engaged in
litigation with Tadahiro Ohmi ( Ohmi ). 
On June 2, 2005, Ohmi filed suit against us in the U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Texas (amended on August 31, 2005) alleging
infringement of a single Ohmi patent.  We
are also engaged in litigation with Mosaid Technologies, Inc. ( Mosaid ).  On July 24, 2006, we filed a declaratory
judgment action against Mosaid in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California seeking, among other things, a court determination that
fourteen Mosaid patents are invalid, not enforceable, and/or not
infringed.  On July 26, 2006, Mosaid
filed a lawsuit against us and others in the U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Texas alleging infringement of nine Mosaid patents.  On August 31, 2006, Mosaid filed an amended
complaint adding two additional Mosaid patents. 
On October 23, 2006, the California Court dismissed our declaratory
judgment suit based on lack of jurisdiction.  

14     

Among other
things, the above lawsuits pertain to certain of our SDRAM, DDR SDRAM, DDR2
SDRAM, RLDRAM, and image sensor products, which account for a significant
portion of our net sales.  

    A court determination that our products or
manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others
could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material
changes to our products and/or manufacturing processes.  We are unable to predict the outcome of
assertions of infringement made against us. 
Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations or financial condition.  

  We have a number
of patent and intellectual property license agreements.  Some of these license agreements require us
to make one time or periodic payments. 
We may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing
license agreements in the future.  We are
unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed
on acceptable terms.  

   Allegations of
anticompetitive conduct.   

  On June 17, 2002,
we received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California seeking information regarding an investigation by the
Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (the  DOJ ) into possible
antitrust violations in the  Dynamic Random Access Memory  or  DRAM 
industry.  We are cooperating fully and
actively with the DOJ in its investigation of the DRAM industry.  Our cooperation is pursuant to the terms of
the DOJ s Corporate Leniency Policy, which provides that in exchange for our
full, continuing and complete cooperation in the pending investigation, we will
not be subject to prosecution, fines or other penalties from the DOJ.  

  Subsequent to the
commencement of the DOJ investigation, a number of purported class action
lawsuits have been filed against us and other DRAM suppliers.  Eighteen cases have been filed in various
federal district courts (two of which have been dismissed) asserting claims on
behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities that purchased DRAM
directly from various DRAM suppliers during the period from April 1, 1999
through at least June 30, 2002.  All of
the cases have been transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District
of California for consolidated proceedings. 
The complaints allege price-fixing in violation of federal antitrust
laws and seek treble monetary damages, costs, attorneys  fees, and an
injunction against the allegedly unlawful conduct.  On June 5, 2006, the Court granted plaintiffs 
motion to certify the proposed class of direct purchasers.  

  Four cases have
been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities
that indirectly purchased DRAM and/or products containing DRAM from various
DRAM suppliers during the time period from April 1, 1999 through at least June
30, 2002.  The complaints allege price
fixing in violation of federal antitrust laws and various state antitrust and
unfair competition laws and seek treble monetary damages, restitution, costs,
interest and attorneys  fees.  In
addition, at least sixty-two cases have been filed in various state and federal
courts (five of which have been dismissed) asserting claims on behalf of a
purported class of indirect purchasers of DRAM. 
Cases have been filed in the following states:  Arkansas, Arizona, California, Florida,
Hawaii, Iowa, Kansas, Massachusetts, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi,
Montana, North Carolina, North Dakota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New
Mexico, Nevada, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah,
Vermont, Virginia, Wisconsin, and West Virginia, and also in the District of
Columbia and Puerto Rico.  The complaints
purport to be on behalf of individuals and entities that indirectly purchased
DRAM and/or products containing DRAM in the respective jurisdictions during
various time periods ranging from 1999 through the filing date of the various
complaints.  The complaints allege
violations of various jurisdictions  antitrust, consumer protection and/or
unfair competition laws relating to the sale and pricing of DRAM products and
seek treble monetary damages, restitution, costs, interest and attorneys  fees.  A number of these cases have been removed to
federal court and transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California (San Francisco) for consolidated proceedings.  

  Additionally,
three cases have been filed in the following Canadian courts:  Superior Court, District of Montreal,
Province of Quebec; Ontario Superior Court of Justice, Ontario; and Supreme
Court of British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, British Columbia.  The substantive allegations in these cases
are similar to those asserted in the cases filed in the United States.  

  In addition,
various states, through their Attorneys General, have filed suit against us and
other DRAM manufacturers.  On July 14,
2006, the following states filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California:  Alaska, Arizona,
Arkansas, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois,
Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota,
Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, North Carolina, North
Dakota, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Ohio, Oklahoma,
Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah,
Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, and Wisconsin.  The amended complaint, filed September 8,
2006, alleges, among other things, violations of the Sherman Act, Cartwright
Act, and certain other states  consumer protection and antitrust laws and seeks
damages, and injunctive and other relief. 
Additionally, on July 13, 2006, the  

15     

State of New York filed a
similar suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York.  That case was subsequently
transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
for pre-trial purposes.  

  On October 11,
2006, we received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California seeking information regarding an investigation
by the DOJ into possible antitrust violations in the  Static Random Access
Memory  or  SRAM  industry.  We believe
that we are not a target of the investigation and we are cooperating fully and
actively with the DOJ in its investigation of the SRAM industry.  

  Subsequent to the
issuance of subpoenas to the SRAM industry, a number of purported class action
lawsuits have been filed against us and other SRAM suppliers.  Two cases have been filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California asserting claims on
behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities that purchased SRAM
directly from various SRAM suppliers during the period from January 1, 1998
through December 31, 2005.  Additionally,
eight cases have been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California and one in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Tennessee asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of
individuals and entities that indirectly purchased SRAM and/or products
containing SRAM from various SRAM suppliers during the time period from January
1, 1998 through December 31, 2005.  The
complaints allege price fixing in violation of federal antitrust laws and state
antitrust and unfair competition laws and seek treble monetary damages,
restitution, costs, interest and attorneys  fees.  

  On May 5, 2004,
Rambus filed a complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California (San
Francisco County) against us and other DRAM suppliers.  The complaint alleges various causes of
action under California state law including conspiracy to restrict output and
fix prices on Rambus DRAM ( RDRAM ), and unfair competition.  The complaint seeks treble damages, punitive
damages, attorneys  fees, costs, and a permanent injunction enjoining the
defendants from the conduct alleged in the complaints.  

  We are unable to
predict the outcome of these lawsuits and investigations.  The final resolution of these alleged
violations of antitrust laws could result in significant liability and could
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or
financial condition.  

   Allegations
of violations of securities laws.   

  On February 24,
2006, a putative class action complaint was filed against us and certain of our
officers in the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho alleging claims
under Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. 
Four substantially similar complaints subsequently were filed in the
same Court.  The cases purport to be brought
on behalf of a class of purchasers of our stock during the period February 24,
2001 to February 13, 2003.  The five
lawsuits have been consolidated and a consolidated amended class action
complaint was filed on July 24, 2006. 
The complaint generally alleges violations of federal securities laws
based on, among other things, claimed misstatements or omissions regarding
alleged illegal price-fixing conduct. 
The complaint seeks unspecified damages, interest, attorneys  fees,
costs, and expenses.  

  In addition, on
March 23, 2006 a shareholder derivative action was filed in the Fourth District
Court for the State of Idaho (Ada County), allegedly on behalf of and for our
benefit, against certain of our current and former officers and directors.  We were also named as a nominal defendant.  The complaint is based on the same allegations
of fact as in the securities class actions filed in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Idaho and alleges breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control,
gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, and insider
trading.  The complaint seeks unspecified
damages, restitution, disgorgement of profits, equitable and injunctive relief,
attorneys  fees, costs, and expenses. 
The complaint is derivative in nature and does not seek monetary damages
from us.  However, we may be required,
throughout the pendency of the action, to advance payment of legal fees and
costs incurred by the defendants.  

  In March 2006,
following our announcement of a definitive agreement to acquire Lexar Media,
Inc. ( Lexar ) in a stock-for-stock merger, four purported class action
complaints were filed in the Superior Court for the State of California
(Alameda County) on behalf of shareholders of Lexar against Lexar and its
directors.  Two of the complaints also
name us as a defendant.  The complaints
allege that the defendants breached, or aided and abetted the breach of,
fiduciary duties owed to Lexar shareholders by, among other things, engaging in
self-dealing, failing to engage in efforts to obtain the highest price
reasonably available, and failing to properly value Lexar in connection with a
merger transaction between Lexar and us. 
The plaintiffs seek, among other things, injunctive relief preventing,
or an order of rescission reversing, the merger, compensatory damages,
interest, attorneys  fees, and costs.  On
May 19, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary injunction seeking
to block the merger.  On May 31, 2006,
the Court denied the motion.  

16     

We are unable to
predict the outcome of these cases.  A
court determination in any of the class actions against us could result in
significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations or financial condition.  

   Current economic and
political conditions may harm our business.   

  Global economic conditions and the effects of
military or terrorist actions may cause significant disruptions to worldwide
commerce.  If these disruptions result in
delays or cancellations of customer orders, a decrease in corporate spending on
information technology or our inability to effectively market, manufacture or
ship our products.  Global economic
conditions may also affect consumer demand for devices that incorporate our
products such as mobile phones, personal computers, flash memory cards and USB
devices.  As a result, our business,
results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely
affected.  

   We
face risks associated with our international sales and operations that could
materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial
condition.   

  Sales to customers
outside the United States approximated 67% of our consolidated net sales for
2006.  In addition, we have manufacturing
operations in Italy, Japan, Puerto Rico and Singapore.  Our international sales and operations are
subject to a variety of risks, including:  

                        currency
exchange rate fluctuations, 

                        export and
import duties, changes to import and export regulations, and restrictions on
the transfer of funds, 

                        political and
economic instability, 

                        problems with
the transportation or delivery of our products, 

                        issues arising
from cultural or language differences and labor unrest, 

                        longer payment
cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, and 

                        compliance with
trade and other laws in a variety of jurisdictions. 

  These factors may
materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial
condition.  

   If
our manufacturing process is disrupted, our business, results of operations or
financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   

  We manufacture
products using highly complex processes that require technologically advanced
equipment and continuous modification to improve yields and performance.  Difficulties in the manufacturing process or
the effects from a shift in product mix can reduce yields or disrupt production
and may increase our per megabit manufacturing costs.   Additionally, our control over operations at
our IMFT, TECH and MP Mask joint ventures may be limited by our agreements with
our partners.  From time to time,
we have experienced minor disruptions in our manufacturing process as a result
of power outages or equipment failures. 
If production at a fabrication facility is disrupted for any reason,
manufacturing yields may be adversely affected or we may be unable to meet our
customers  requirements and they may purchase products from other
suppliers.  This could result in a
significant increase in manufacturing costs or loss of revenues or damage to
customer relationships, which could materially adversely affect our business,
results of operations or financial condition. 

   Disruptions in our supply
of raw materials could materially adversely affect our business, results of
operations or financial condition.   

  Our operations
require raw materials that meet exacting standards.  We generally have multiple sources of supply
for our raw materials.  However, only a
limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials
that meet our standards.  Various factors
could reduce the availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers,
photomasks, chemicals, gases, lead frames and molding compound.  Shortages may occur from time to time in the
future.  In addition, disruptions in
transportation lines could delay our receipt of raw materials.  Lead times for the supply of raw materials
have been extended in the past.  If our
supply of raw materials is disrupted or our lead times extended, our business,
results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely
affected.  

17     

Products that do not meet
specifications or that contain, or are perceived by our customers to contain,
defects or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant
costs on us or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of
operations or financial condition.   

  Because the design and
production process for semiconductor memory is highly complex, it is possible
that we may produce products that do not comply with customer specifications,
contain defects or are otherwise incompatible with end uses.  If, despite design review, quality control
and product qualification procedures, problems with nonconforming, defective or
incompatible products occur after we have shipped such products, we could be
adversely affected in several ways, including the following:  

                        we may replace
product or otherwise compensate customers for costs incurred or damages caused
by defective or incompatible product, and 

                        we may encounter
adverse publicity, which could cause a decrease in sales of our products. 

   We
expect to make future acquisitions where advisable, which involve numerous
risks.   

  We expect to make future
acquisitions where we believe it is advisable to enhance shareholder
value.  Acquisitions involve numerous
risks, including:  

                        difficulties in
integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired
companies, 

                        increasing
capital expenditures to upgrade and maintain facilities, 

                        increasing debt
to finance any acquisition, 

                        diverting
management s attention from normal daily operations, 

                        managing larger
operations and facilities and employees in separate geographic areas, and 

                        hiring
and retaining key employees. 

  Mergers and
acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and future
acquisitions may not be successful and may materially adversely affect our
business, results of operations or financial condition.  

    Item 1B.        
Unresolved Staff Comments     

  None.  

18  

Item
2.         Properties       

  The Company s
corporate headquarters are located in Boise, Idaho.  The
following is a summary of the Company s principal facilities:  

Location   

Principal Operations   

Boise, Idaho  

Wafer fabrication, test and
  assembly, research and development  

Lehi, Utah  

Wafer fabrication  

Manassas, Virginia  

Wafer fabrication, research
  and development  

Singapore  

Wafer fabrication facility and
  a test, assembly and module assembly facility  

Nishiwaki City, Japan  

Wafer fabrication  

Avezzano, Italy  

Wafer fabrication  

Nampa, Idaho  

Test  

Aguadilla, Puerto Rico  

Module assembly, test  

The Company also
owns and leases a number of other facilities in locations throughout the world
that are used for design, research and development, and sales and marketing activities.  

   The Company s facility in Lehi is owned and operated by its IMFT joint
venture  (See  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Joint Ventures   IM Flash
Technologies, LLC ).  The Company s wafer fabrication facility in
Singapore is owned by its TECH joint venture (See  Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
Joint Ventures   TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ).  

   The Company believes that its existing facilities are suitable and
adequate for its present purposes and that the productive capacity in such
facilities is substantially being utilized or the Company has plans to utilize
it.  
The Company does not identify or allocate assets by operating
segment.  For additional information on
net property, plant and equipment by country, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
Geographic Information.   

   Item 3.            Legal Proceedings         

  On August 28,
2000, the Company filed a complaint against Rambus, Inc. ( Rambus ) in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Delaware seeking monetary damages and
declaratory and injunctive relief.  Among
other things, the Company s complaint (as amended) alleges violation of federal
antitrust laws, breach of contract, fraud, deceptive trade practices, and
negligent misrepresentation.  The
complaint also seeks a declaratory judgment (a) that certain Rambus patents are
not infringed by the Company, are invalid, and/or are unenforceable, (b) that
the Company has an implied license to those patents, and (c) that Rambus is
estopped from enforcing those patents against the Company.  On February 15, 2001, Rambus filed an answer
and counterclaim in Delaware denying that the Company is entitled to relief,
alleging infringement of the eight Rambus patents named in the Company s
declaratory judgment claim, and seeking monetary damages and injunctive
relief.  A number of other suits are
currently pending in Europe alleging that certain of the Company s SDRAM and
DDR SDRAM products infringe various of Rambus  country counterparts to its
European patent 525 068, including:  on
September 1, 2000, Rambus filed suit against Micron Semiconductor (Deutschland)
GmbH in the District Court of Mannheim, Germany; on September 22, 2000, Rambus
filed a complaint against the Company and Reptronic (a distributor of the
Company s products) in the Court of First Instance of Paris, France; on
September 29, 2000, the Company filed suit against Rambus in the Civil Court of
Milan, Italy, alleging invalidity and non-infringement.  In addition, on December 29, 2000, the
Company filed suit against Rambus in the Civil Court of Avezzano, Italy,
alleging invalidity and non-infringement of the Italian counterpart to European
patent 1 004 956.  Additionally, other
suits are pending alleging that certain of our DDR SDRAM products infringe
Rambus  country counterparts to its European patent 1 022 642, including:  on August 10, 2001, Rambus filed suit against
the Company and Assitec (an electronics retailer) in the Civil Court of Pavia,
Italy; and on August 14, 2001, Rambus filed suit against Micron Semiconductor
(Deutschland) GmbH in the District Court of Mannheim, Germany.  In the European suits against the Company,
Rambus is seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief.  Subsequent to the filing of the various
European suits, the European Patent Office declared Rambus  525 068 and 1 004
956 European patents invalid and revoked the patents.  On January 13, 2006, Rambus filed a lawsuit
against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California alleging infringement of eighteen Rambus patents.  

  On June 2, 2005,
Tadahiro Ohmi ( Ohmi ) filed suit against the Company in the U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Texas (amended on August 31, 2005) alleging
infringement of a single Ohmi patent.  

19     

On July 24, 2006,
the Company filed a declaratory judgment action against Mosaid Technologies,
Inc. ( Mosaid ) in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California seeking, among other things, a court determination that fourteen
Mosaid patents are invalid, not enforceable, and/or not infringed.  On July 26, 2006, Mosaid filed a lawsuit
against the Company and others in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas alleging infringement of nine Mosaid patents.  On August 31, 2006, Mosaid filed an amended
complaint adding two additional Mosaid patents. 
On October 23, 2006, the California Court dismissed the Company s
declaratory judgment suit based on lack of jurisdiction.  

  Among other
things, the above lawsuits pertain to certain of the Company s SDRAM, DDR
SDRAM, DDR2 SDRAM, RLDRAM, and image sensor products, which account for a
significant portion of the Company s net sales.  

  The Company is
unable to predict the outcome of these suits. 
A court determination that the Company s products or manufacturing
processes infringe the product or process intellectual property rights of
others could result in significant liability and/or require the Company to make
material changes to its products and/or manufacturing processes.  Any of the foregoing results could have a
material adverse effect on the Company s business, results of operations or
financial condition.  

  On June 17, 2002,
the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California seeking information regarding an investigation
by the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (the  DOJ ) into
possible antitrust violations in the  Dynamic Random Access Memory  or  DRAM 
industry.  The Company is cooperating
fully and actively with the DOJ in its investigation.  The Company s cooperation is pursuant to the
terms of the DOJ s Corporate Leniency Policy, which provides that in exchange
for our full, continuing and complete cooperation in the pending investigation,
the Company will not be subject to prosecution, fines or other penalties from
the DOJ.  

  Subsequent to the
commencement of the DOJ investigation, a number of purported class action
lawsuits have been filed against the Company and other DRAM suppliers.  Eighteen cases have been filed in various
federal district courts (two of which have been dismissed) asserting claims on
behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities that purchased DRAM
directly from the various DRAM suppliers during the period from April 1, 1999
through at least June 30, 2002.  All of
the cases have been transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California for consolidated proceedings.  The complaints allege price-fixing in
violation of federal antitrust laws and seek treble monetary damages, costs,
attorneys  fees, and an injunction against the allegedly unlawful conduct.  On June 5, 2006, the Court granted plaintiffs 
motion to certify the proposed class of direct purchasers.  

  Four cases have
been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities
that indirectly purchased DRAM and/or products containing DRAM from various
DRAM suppliers during the time period from April 1, 1999 through at least June
30, 2002.  The complaints allege price
fixing in violation of federal antitrust laws and various state antitrust and
unfair competition laws and seek treble monetary damages, restitution, costs,
interest and attorneys  fees.  In
addition, at least sixty-two cases have been filed in various state courts
(five of which have been dismissed) asserting claims on behalf of a purported
class of indirect purchasers of DRAM. 
Cases have been filed in the following states:  Arkansas, Arizona, California, Florida,
Hawaii, Iowa, Kansas, Massachusetts, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi,
Montana, North Carolina, North Dakota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New
Mexico, Nevada, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah,
Vermont, Virginia, Wisconsin, and West Virginia, and also in the District of
Columbia and Puerto Rico.  The complaints
purport to be on behalf of a class of individuals and entities that indirectly
purchased DRAM and/or products containing DRAM in the respective jurisdictions
during various time periods ranging from 1999 through the filing date of the
various complaints.  The complaints allege
violations of the various jurisdictions  antitrust, consumer protection and/or
unfair competition laws relating to the sale and pricing of DRAM products and
seek treble monetary damages, restitution, costs, interest and attorneys 
fees.  A number of these cases have been
removed to federal court and transferred to the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California (San Francisco) for consolidated proceedings.  

  Additionally,
three cases have been filed in the following Canadian courts:  Superior Court, District of Montreal,
Province of Quebec; Ontario Superior Court of Justice, Ontario; and Supreme
Court of British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, British Columbia.  The substantive allegations in these cases
are similar to those asserted in the cases filed in the United States.  

  In addition,
various states, through their Attorneys General, have filed suit against the
Company and other DRAM manufacturers.  On
July 14, 2006, the following states filed suit in the U.S. District Court for
the Northern District of California: 
Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida,
Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, New
Hampshire, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island,
South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West
Virginia, and  

20     

Wisconsin.  The amended complaint, filed September 8,
2006, alleges, among other things, violations of the Sherman Act, Cartwright
Act, and certain other states  consumer protection and antitrust laws and seeks
damages, and injunctive and other relief. 
Additionally, on July 13, 2006, the State of New York filed a similar
suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.  That case was subsequently transferred to the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California for pre-trial
purposes.  

  On October 11, 2006,
the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California seeking information regarding an investigation
by the DOJ into possible antitrust violations in the  Static Random Access
Memory  or  SRAM  industry.  The Company
believes that it is not a target of the investigation and is cooperating fully
and actively with the DOJ in its investigation of the SRAM industry.  

  Subsequent to the
issuance of subpoenas to the SRAM industry, a number of purported class action
lawsuits have been filed against the Company and other SRAM suppliers.  Two cases have been filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California asserting claims on
behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities that purchased SRAM
directly from various SRAM suppliers during the period from January 1, 1998
through December 31, 2005.  Additionally,
eight cases have been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California and one in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Tennessee asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of
individuals and entities that indirectly purchased SRAM and/or products
containing SRAM from various SRAM suppliers during the time period from January
1, 1998 through December 31, 2005.  The
complaints allege price fixing in violation of federal antitrust laws and state
antitrust and unfair competition laws and seek treble monetary damages,
restitution, costs, interest and attorneys  fees.  

  On May 5, 2004,
Rambus filed a complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California (San
Francisco County) against the Company and other DRAM suppliers.  The complaint alleges various causes of
action under California state law including a conspiracy to restrict output and
fix prices on Rambus DRAM ( RDRAM ) and unfair competition.  The complaint seeks treble damages, punitive
damages, attorneys  fees, costs, and a permanent injunction enjoining the
defendants from the conduct alleged in the complaints.  

  The Company is unable
to predict the outcome of these lawsuits and investigations.  The final resolution of these alleged
violations of antitrust laws could result in significant liability and could
have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, results of operations
or financial condition.  

  On February 24,
2006, a putative class action complaint was filed against the Company and
certain of its officers in the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho
alleging claims under Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder.  Four substantially similar complaints
subsequently were filed in the same Court. 
The cases purport to be brought on behalf of a class of purchasers of
the Company s stock during the period February 24, 2001 to February 13,
2003.  The five lawsuits have been
consolidated and a consolidated amended class action complaint was filed on
July 24, 2006.  The complaint generally
alleges violations of federal securities laws based on, among other things,
claimed misstatements or omissions regarding alleged illegal price-fixing
conduct or the Company s operations and financial results.  The complaint seeks unspecified damages,
interest, attorneys  fees, costs, and expenses.  

  In addition, on
March 23, 2006 a shareholder derivative action was filed in the Fourth District
Court for the State of Idaho (Ada County), allegedly on behalf of and for the
benefit of the Company, against certain of the Company s current and former
officers and directors.  The Company also
was named as a nominal defendant.  The
complaint is based on the same allegations of fact as in the securities class
actions filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho and alleges
breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of
corporate assets, unjust enrichment, and insider trading.  The complaint seeks unspecified damages,
restitution, disgorgement of profits, equitable and injunctive relief,
attorneys  fees, costs, and expenses. 
The complaint is derivative in nature and does not seek monetary damages
from the Company.  However, the Company
may be required, throughout the pendency of the action, to advance payment of
legal fees and costs incurred by the defendants.  

  The Company is
unable to predict the outcome of these cases. 
A court determination in any of these actions against the Company could
result in significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on the
Company s business, results of operations or financial condition.  

  In March 2006,
following the Company s announcement of a definitive agreement to acquire Lexar
Media, Inc. ( Lexar ) in a stock-for-stock merger, four purported class action
complaints were filed in the Superior Court for the State of California
(Alameda County) on behalf of shareholders of Lexar against Lexar and its
directors.  Two of the complaints also
name the Company as a defendant.  The
complaints allege that the defendants breached, or aided and abetted the breach
of, fiduciary duties owed to Lexar shareholders by, among other things,
engaging in self-dealing, failing to engage in efforts to obtain the  

21     

highest price reasonably
available, and failing to properly value Lexar in connection with a merger
transaction between Lexar and the Company. 
The plaintiffs seek, among other things, injunctive relief preventing,
or an order of rescission reversing, the merger, compensatory damages,
interest, attorneys  fees, and costs.  On
May 19, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary injunction seeking
to block the merger.  On May 31, 2006,
the Court denied the motion.  The Company
is unable to predict the outcome of these suits.  A court determination against the Company
could result in significant liability and could have a material adverse effect
on the Company s business, results of operations or financial condition.  (See  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Lexar Media,
Inc. )  

  (See  Item 1A. Risk
Factors )  

    Item
4.          Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders        

  There were no matters submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of 2006.  

   PART II     

    Item 5.         Market for Registrant s Common Equity and
Related Stockholder Matters       

    Market
for Common Stock    

  The
Company s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded
under the symbol  MU.   The following
table represents the high and low closing sales prices for the Company s common
stock for each quarter of 2006 and 2005, as reported by Bloomberg L.P.  

Holders
of Record    

  As of November 1,
2006, there were 3,578 shareholders of record of the Company s common stock.  

    Dividends    

  The Company has
not declared or paid cash dividends since 1996 and does not intend to pay cash
dividends on its common stock for the foreseeable future.  

    Equity
Compensation Plan Information    

  The information required
by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth in Item
12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

22     

Item 6.         Selected Financial Data       

The Company
entered into an agreement, effective in the third quarter of 2006, with the
Singapore Economic Development Board ( EDB ) a partner in its TECH Semiconductor
joint venture.  Under the agreement, the
Company granted EDB an option to sell to the Company, EDB s shares of TECH
common stock (approximately 30% as August 31, 2006).  As a result, the Company consolidated its
approximate 43% interest in TECH under the provisions of FIN 46(R)  Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities.   (See  Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements   Joint Ventures   TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
note.)  

  In the fourth
quarter of 2006, the Company acquired Lexar Media, Inc. ( Lexar ), a designer,
developer, manufacturer and marketer of flash memory products, in a
stock-for-stock merger.  (See  Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   Lexar Media, Inc.  note.)  

  See  Item 1A. Risk
Factors   and  Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

23  

Item 7.   Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations      

   The following discussion contains trend information
and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and
uncertainties.  Forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in  Overview 
regarding growth for CMOS image sensor and NAND Flash markets and allocations
of wafer starts to these products; in  Net Sales  regarding NAND Flash
production in future periods and increases in revenue from sales of NAND Flash
and Imaging products; in  Selling, General and Administrative  regarding
SG A expenses for the first quarter of 2007; in  Research and Development 
regarding R D costs for the first quarter of 2007; in  Stock-Based
Compensation  regarding increases in future stock-based compensation costs; in
 Income Taxes  regarding future provisions for income taxes and a reduction in
the valuation allowance; and in  Liquidity and Capital Resources  regarding
capital spending in 2007; and  future
capital contributions to IMFT and TECH. 
The Company s actual results could differ materially from the Company s
historical results and those discussed in the forward-looking statements.  Factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in  Certain
Factors.   This discussion should be read
in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying
notes for the year ended August 31, 2006. 
All period references are to the Company s fiscal periods unless
otherwise indicated.  All tabular dollar
amounts are in millions.  All production
data reflects production of the Company and its TECH joint venture.    

   Overview     

  The Company is a global manufacturer of semiconductor
devices, principally DRAM and NAND Flash memory products, and CMOS image
sensors.  The Company operates in two
primary segments:  Memory and Imaging.  Its products are used in a broad range of
electronic applications including personal computers, workstations, network
servers, mobile phones and other consumer applications including flash memory
cards, USB storage devices, digital still cameras, MP3 players and in
automotive applications.  The Company s
customers are principally original equipment manufacturers located around the
world.  The Company s success is largely
dependent on the market acceptance of a diversified semiconductor product
portfolio, efficient utilization of the Company s manufacturing infrastructure,
successful ongoing development of advanced process technologies and generation
of sufficient return on research and development investments.    

  The Company has strategically diversified its business
by expanding into semiconductor products such as specialty memory products
(including SDRAM, PSRAM, mobile SDRAM and reduced latency DRAM), NAND Flash
memory products and CMOS image sensors. 
These products are used in a wider range of applications than the
computing applications that use the Company s highest volume products, DDR and
DDR2.  The Company leverages its
expertise in semiconductor memory manufacturing and product and process
technology to provide these products that are differentiated from competitors 
products based on performance characteristics. 
In 2006, approximately half of the Company s sales were other than PC
DRAM products.  The Company expects that
the markets for these products will grow in the near term more rapidly than the
overall semiconductor market.  The
Company believes the strategic diversification of its product portfolio will
strengthen its ability to allocate manufacturing resources to achieve the
highest rate of return.   

  As part of its diversification strategy the Company
took several steps towards establishing a significant presence in the NAND
Flash market in 2006.  In January 2006,
the Company partnered with Intel to form a NAND Flash manufacturing joint
venture, IM Flash Technologies, LLC. 
IMFT initiated an accelerated build out and production ramp at two 300mm
wafer fabrication facilities that are expected to greatly increase the
Company s production of NAND Flash in 2007. 
In June 2006, the Company acquired Lexar Media, Inc., a designer,
developer, manufacturer and marketer of Flash memory products, in a stock-for-stock
merger.  (See  Recent Developments. )   

  The Company s Imaging segment experienced strong
growth in 2006 as net sales increased 147% from 2005 and represented 14% of the
Company s net sales for 2006.  The
Company ramped production of Imaging products at a second wafer fabrication
facility in 2006 and expects to continue to allocate an increasing portion of
its manufacturing capacity to CMOS image sensors in 2007.  

  The Company makes significant ongoing investments to
implement its proprietary product and process technology in its facilities in
the United States, Europe and Asia to manufacture semiconductor products with
increasing functionality and performance at lower costs.  The Company continues to introduce new
generations of products that offer improved performance characteristics, such
as higher data transfer rates, reduced package size, lower power consumption
and increased megapixel count.  The
Company generally reduces the manufacturing cost of each generation of product
through advancements in product and process technology such as its leading-edge
line width process technology and innovative array architecture.  

24     

In order to maximize returns from investments in
research and development ( R D ), the Company develops process technology
that effectively reduces production costs and leverages the Company s capital
expenditures.  To be successfully
incorporated in customers  end products, the Company must offer qualified
semiconductor solutions at a time when customers are developing their design specifications
for their end products.  This is
especially true for specialty memory products and CMOS image sensors, which are
required to demonstrate advanced functionality and performance well ahead of a
planned ramp of production to commercial volumes.  In addition, DRAM and NAND Flash products
necessarily incorporate highly advanced design and process technologies.  The Company must make significant investments
in R D to expand its product offering and develop its leading-edge product
and process technologies.  

   Recent
Developments     

     IM Flash Technologies, LLC ( IMFT ):      
IMFT, which began operations on January 6, 2006, is a joint venture
between the Company and Intel Corporation ( Intel ).  IMFT manufactures NAND Flash memory products
pursuant to NAND Flash designs developed by the Company and Intel and licensed
to the Company.   The parties share the output of IMFT generally in
proportion to their investment in IMFT.   IMFT s
financial results are included in the consolidated financial statements of the
Company.  As a result of their
contributions to IMFT, the Company owns 51% and Intel owns 49% of IMFT.  (See  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Joint
Ventures   IM Flash Technologies, LLC )   

     TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ( TECH ):      
On March 3, 2006, certain shareholders of TECH, including the Company
and the Singapore Economic Development Board ( EDB ), contributed approximately
$260 million in cash as additional capital to TECH, of which the Company s
contribution was approximately $130 million. 
Following the contribution, the Company owned an approximate 43%
interest in TECH.  Effective March 3,
2006, the Company entered into an agreement with EDB whereby EDB granted the
Company an option to purchase from EDB, and the Company granted EDB an option
to sell to the Company, EDB s shares of TECH common stock (approximately 30% as
of August 31, 2006).  As a result of the
put option agreement noted above, the Company concluded it is the primary beneficiary
of TECH and therefore began consolidating TECH s financial results as of the
beginning of the Company s third quarter of 2006.  (See  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Joint Ventures
  TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. )  

     MP Mask Technology Center, LLC ( MP Mask ):      
In the third quarter of 2006, the Company formed a joint venture, MP
Mask, with Photronics, Inc. ( Photronics ) to produce photomasks for
leading-edge and advanced next generation semiconductors.  The Company contributed its then existing
reticle manufacturing operation to the venture. 
In exchange for a 49.99% interest in MP Mask, Photronics paid cash and
issued notes to the Company aggregating $63 million.  In connection with the joint venture, the
Company received $72 million in exchange for entering into a license agreement
with Photronics, which will be recognized over the term of the 10-year
agreement.  The Company and Photronics
also entered into supply arrangements wherein the Company is expected to purchase
a substantial majority of the reticles produced by MP Mask.  The financial results of MP Mask are included
in the consolidated financial results of the Company.  (See  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Joint
Ventures   MP Mask Technology Center, LLC. )  

     Lexar Media, Inc. ( Lexar ):      
On June 21, 2006, the Company acquired Lexar, a designer, developer,
manufacturer and marketer of Flash memory products, in a stock-for-stock
merger.  Pursuant to the terms of a
merger agreement, each issued and outstanding share of common stock of Lexar
was converted into 0.5925 shares of Micron s common stock (the  Exchange
Ratio ), and each issued, outstanding and unexercised Lexar employee stock
option with an exercise price per share of $9.54 or less was converted into a
Micron employee stock option using the Exchange Ratio.  In connection with the merger, the Company
issued approximately 50.7 million shares of common stock, issued approximately
6.6 million stock options and incurred other acquisition costs resulting in an
aggregate purchase price of $886 million. 
(See  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   Lexar Media, Inc. )  

25     

Results of Operations     

The Company s fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period
ending on the Thursday closest to August 31. 
The Company s fiscal 2006 and 2005 contained 52 weeks.  The Company s fiscal 2004 contained 53 weeks.  

   Net Sales     

  Total net sales for 2006 increased 8% as compared to
2005 primarily reflecting a 147% increase in Imaging sales as Memory sales
declined 1%.  Imaging sales increased in
2006 primarily due to significant increases in sales volume facilitated by a
greater allocation of manufacturing capacity to Imaging devices.  Memory sales for 2006 reflect a 34% decline
in per megabit average selling prices from 2005 partially offset by a 50%
increase in megabits sold.   Memory sales
were 86% of total net sales in 2006 compared to 94% in 2005 and 98% in
2004.  Imaging sales have grown rapidly
in recent periods and have represented an increasing portion of the Company s
total net sales.  Total net sales for
2005 increased 11% as compared to 2004 due to a 6% increase in Memory sales and
206% increase in Imaging sales.  

    Memory:     Memory sales for 2006 declined 1% from 2005
as a 287% increase in NAND Flash sales was offset by a 5% decrease in DRAM
sales.  The decrease in DRAM sales for
2006 was the result of a 22% decrease in average selling prices mitigated by a
22% increase in megabits sold.  DRAM
megabit production increased 14% for 2006 as compared to 2005, primarily due to
production efficiencies including improvements in product and process
technologies partially offset by a reduction in wafer starts.  DRAM wafer starts decreased in 2006 as the
Company allocated an increasing portion of its manufacturing resources to
Imaging and NAND Flash memory products. 
Sales of DDR and DDR2 products decreased to 51% of the Company s total
net sales in 2006 as compared to 59% for 2005 and 58% for 2004, reflecting the
Company s progress in diversifying away from PC DRAM.  

  NAND Flash sales increased to 6% of the Company s
total net sales for 2006 from 2% for 2005 primarily due to a significant
increase in megabits sold of NAND partially offset by an approximate 35%
decrease in average selling prices.  NAND
Flash megabit production increased significantly for 2006 as compared to 2005,
primarily due to significant increases in manufacturing resources allocated to
the production of NAND Flash.  Sales of
NAND Flash include sales from the Company s consolidated joint venture, IMFT, to
Intel at long-term negotiated prices approximating cost.  NAND Flash revenue in 2006 was not
significantly affected by the acquisition of Lexar on June 21, 2006, as the
Company did not recognize revenue from Lexar s products that were in the
distribution channel at the acquisition date. 
The Company expects that NAND Flash revenue will increase significantly
in future periods as the Company ramps additional production capacity through
its IMFT joint venture and recognizes Lexar sales for a full period.   

  Memory sales for 2005 increased by 6% as compared to
2004 primarily due to a 40% increase in megabits sold, partially offset by a
24% decrease in the overall average selling price per megabit for the Company s
Memory products.   The Company s overall
megabit production in 2005 increased by 48% as compared to 2004, principally
due to a steep ramp in 300mm wafer production and gains in manufacturing
efficiencies realized from improvements in product and process
technologies.   The Company s megabit
production exceeded megabit sales in 2005, which resulted in an approximate
170% increase in megabit finished goods inventories, primarily consisting of
DDR and DDR2 products.  Most of the
increase in Memory sales in 2005 as compared to 2004 resulted from sales of the
Company s emerging specialty memory products, such as pseudo-static RAM
( PSRAM ) and mobile DRAM products and NAND Flash memory.  The Company s combined   

26     

revenue from these products was $509 million in 2005
and nearly quintupled from 2004 due to large increases in production and strong
demand for the Company s offerings in these product groups.    

    Imaging:     Imaging sales for 2006 increased by 147% from
2005 as unit sales tripled, which was partially offset by a 19% decrease in
average selling price per unit.  The
decrease in average selling price per unit was due primarily to a significant
increase of lower priced VGA products sold in 2006 as compared to 2005.  The growth in Imaging unit sales for 2006
reflects strong demand for the Company s products and increased
production.  Production increased due to
the allocation of more wafers to the manufacture of Imaging products as well as
improvements in manufacturing efficiency. 
Imaging sales were 14% of the Company s total net sales in 2006 as
compared to 6% for 2005 and 2% for 2004. 
Imaging sales for 2005 increased by 206% as compared to 2004 primarily
due to increases in unit sales as average selling price per unit were
essentially unchanged.  The growth in
Imaging unit sales for 2005 reflects increased production.  Due to strong demand for the Company s
products and the planned introduction of new products, the Company expects that
revenue from Imaging products will continue to increase in 2007 as additional
manufacturing capacity is allocated to the production of these products.  

   Gross Margin     

  The Company s overall gross margin percentage of 23%
for 2006 was unchanged from 2005 as a decrease in the gross margin percentage
for Memory in 2006 to 19% from 22% for 2005 was offset by a slight increase in
the gross margin percentage for Imaging products and a shift in product mix to
higher margin Imaging products.  The
Company s overall gross margin percentage for 2005 declined to 23% as compared
to 30% for 2004 primarily due to a decline in gross margin for Memory products,
as a result of decreases in average selling prices per megabit.  Partially offsetting the effect of the
decline in average selling prices in 2005 from 2004 was a reduction in cost of
goods sold per megabit and the increase in sales of CMOS image sensors,
specialty memory and NAND Flash products, which had significantly higher
margins than DDR and DDR2 products in 2005. 

Memory:     The Company s gross margin percentage for
Memory products for 2006 of 19% decreased from 22% for 2005 primarily due to
declining margins for NAND Flash products as a result of the 33% decrease in
the average selling price per megabit and costs associated with ramp in
production at two facilities.  The gross
margin percentage for DRAM products in 2006 of 23% was approximately the same
as for 2005 as a 22% decrease in the average selling price per megabit was
offset by cost reductions.  The Company
achieved cost reductions for DRAM products in 2006 through improved product
yields and an increase in production utilizing the Company s 110nm and 95nm process
technologies.  The cost per megabit for
products manufactured on 300mm wafers decreased significantly in 2006 compared
to 2005 as the Company continued to increase 300mm wafer production.   

  The Company s gross margin percentage for Memory
products for 2005 declined to 22% as compared to 30% for 2004.  This decline in gross margin was primarily
due to the 24% decrease in the Company s overall average selling price per
megabit of memory and, to a lesser extent, a shift in product mix from DDR to
DDR2 products which had lower margins in 2005. 
Partially offsetting this decline in gross margin from 2005 to 2004 were
reductions in product costs and the increase in sales of specialty memory and
NAND Flash products, which had significantly higher margins than DDR and DDR2
products.  The Company reduced DRAM
product costs through manufacturing efficiencies achieved from improved product
yields and increases in production utilizing the Company s  110nm and 95nm process
technology.  The cost per megabit for
products manufactured on 300mm wafers decreased significantly in 2005 compared
to 2004 as the Company increased 300mm wafer production. 

  The Company s TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd.
( TECH ) joint venture supplied approximately 25% of the total megabits of
memory produced by the Company in recent periods.  TECH primarily produced DDR and DDR2 products
in 2006 and 2005.  Through the second
quarter of 2006, the Company purchased memory products from TECH at prices
generally based on a discount from average selling prices realized by the
Company for the preceding quarter.  In
the first six months of 2006, the Company realized higher gross margin
percentages on sales of TECH products than on sales of similar products
manufactured by the Company s wholly-owned operations.  As of the beginning of the third quarter of
2006, TECH s results are included in the Company s consolidated results.  TECH utilizes the Company s product designs
and process technology and, as a result, the gross margin percentage on sales
of TECH products for the last six months of 2006 approximated those on sales of
similar products manufactured by the Company s wholly-owned operations.  (See  Recent Developments   TECH Semiconductor
Singapore Pte. Ltd. )  

    Imaging:     The Company s gross margin percentage for
Imaging products for 2006 increased to 43% from 42% for 2005, primarily due to
reductions in costs partially offset by decreases in average selling
prices.  The Company s gross margin
percentage for Imaging products increased to 42% for 2005 from 25% for 2004
primarily due to cost reductions as the overall average selling price per unit
was essentially unchanged. 

27     

Selling, General
and Administrative     

  Selling, general and administrative ( SG A )
expenses for 2006 increased 32% from 2005 primarily due to higher compensation
costs and increased costs associated with outstanding legal matters.  Payroll costs in 2006 increased from 2005
primarily due to increased headcount resulting in part from the acquisition of
Lexar, the ramp of IMFT and the consolidation of TECH.  SG A expenses for 2005 increased 5% from
2004 primarily due to higher compensation costs, partially offset by a decrease
in costs associated with legal matters. 
The Company expects SG A expenses to approximate $140 million for
the first quarter of 2007.  In 2006,
SG A expense for Memory was approximately 8% of Memory sales and SG A
expense for Imaging was approximately 12% of Imaging sales.   

   Research and
Development     

  Research and development ( R D ) expenses vary
primarily with the number of development wafers processed, the cost of advanced
equipment dedicated to new product and process development, and personnel
costs.  Because of the lead times
necessary to manufacture its products, the Company typically begins to process
wafers before completion of performance and reliability testing.  The Company deems development of a product
complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed and tested for
performance and reliability.  R D
expenses can vary significantly depending on the timing of product
qualification as costs incurred in production prior to qualification are
charged to R D.  

  R D expenses for 2006 increased 9% from 2005,
principally due to increases in development wafers processed, higher
compensation costs and increases in R D equipment depreciation.  The Company and Intel share R D process
and design costs for NAND Flash equally. 
In 2006, the Company charged $86 million to Intel under this NAND Flash
R D cost sharing arrangement. 
R D expenses for 2005 decreased 20% from 2004 principally because
products were qualified on the 300mm wafer fabrication process in the first
quarter of 2005.  The Company expects
that its R D costs will approximate $175 million for the first quarter of
2007.  In 2006, R D expense for
Memory was approximately 13% of Memory sales and R D expense for Imaging
was approximately 11% of Imaging sales.  

  The Company s process technology R D efforts are
focused primarily on development of successively smaller line-width process
technologies which are designed to facilitate the Company s transition to next
generation memory products and CMOS image sensors.  Additional process technology R D efforts
focus on specialty memory products (including PSRAM, mobile SDRAM and reduced
latency DRAM) and new manufacturing materials. 
Product design and development efforts are concentrated on the Company s
1 Gb and 2 Gb DDR, DDR2 and DDR3 products as well as high density and mobile
NAND Flash memory (including multi-level cell technology), CMOS image sensors
and specialty memory products.  

       Other
Operating (Income) Expense, Net   

  Other operating income for 2006 includes $230 million
of net proceeds for the sale of the Company s existing NAND flash memory
designs and certain related technology to Intel net of amounts paid by the
Company for a perpetual, paid-up license to use and modify such designs.  Other operating income for 2006 also includes
$23 million in additional amounts expected to be reimbursed resulting from the
extension of an economic development agreement, which allows the Company to
recover amounts relating to certain investments in the IMFT Lehi facility.  Other operating income for 2005 includes
gains net of losses on disposals of semiconductor equipment of $13 million and
$12 million in receipts from the U.S. Government in connection with
anti-dumping tariffs.  Other operating
expense for 2004 includes losses of $17 million from changes in currency
exchange rates.  Other operating income
for 2004 includes $7 million from the Commonwealth of Virginia for meeting
investment commitments at the Virginia wafer fabrication facility and net gains
of $4 million on write-downs and disposals of semiconductor equipment.   

      Income Taxes     

  Income taxes for 2006 and 2005 primarily reflect taxes
on the Company s non-U.S. operations and U.S. alternative minimum tax.  The Company has a valuation allowance for its
net deferred tax asset associated with its U.S. operations.  The provision for taxes on U.S. operations in
2006 and 2005 was substantially offset by reductions in the valuation
allowance.  As of August 31, 2006, the
Company had aggregate U.S. tax net operating loss carryforwards of $1.7 billion
and unused U.S. tax credit carryforwards of $164 million.  The Company also has unused state tax net
operating loss carryforwards of $1.4 billion and unused state tax credits of
$163 million.  Substantially all of the
net operating loss carryforwards expire in 2022 to 2025 and substantially all
of the tax credit carryforwards expire in 2013 to 2026.  During 2006, the Company utilized
approximately $1.1 billion of its U.S. tax net operating loss carryforwards as
a result of IMFT, MP Mask and related transactions.  (See  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Joint
Ventures      IM Flash Technologies, LLC   and  Joint Ventures   MP
Mask Technology Center, LLC  notes.)   

28     

Stock-Based
Compensation     

  Through 2005, the Company accounted for its stock
plans using the intrinsic value method. 
Effective the beginning of 2006, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  and
elected to adopt the modified prospective application method.  SFAS No. 123(R) requires the Company to use a
fair-value based method to account for stock-based compensation.  Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is
measured as of the grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is
recognized as expense over the employees  requisite service period.  Total compensation cost for the Company s
equity plans in 2006 was $26 million, of which $1 million was capitalized and
remained in inventory at August 31, 2006. 
As of August 31, 2006, there was $77 million of total unrecognized
compensation cost related to equity plans, which is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 1.5 years. 
In 2005, the Company accelerated the vesting of substantially all of its
unvested stock options then outstanding under the Company s stock plans to
reduce compensation costs recognized subsequent to the adoption of SFAS
123(R).  Because the Company s near-term,
stock-based compensation costs were reduced by the acceleration of vesting in
2005, stock-based compensation costs will grow significantly in future periods
if the Company continues to grant amounts of new stock-based compensation
awards similar to recent periods.  

   Liquidity and
Capital Resources     

  The Company s liquidity is highly dependent on average
selling prices for its products and the timing of capital expenditures, both of
which can vary significantly from period to period.  As of August 31, 2006, the Company had cash
and marketable investment securities totaling $3.1 billion compared to $1.3
billion as of September 1, 2005.   The Company s cash and marketable
investment securities as of August 31, 2006, included $875 million held at, and
anticipated to be used in the near term by, IMFT and TECH. 

    Operating Activities:     For 2006, net cash provided by operating
activities was $2,019 million, which principally reflects the Company s $408
million of net income adjusted by $1,281 million for non-cash depreciation and
amortization expense.  Cash provided by
operations also included $250 million received from Apple Computer Inc. as
prepayment for future NAND Flash sales, an increase of $130 million in accounts
payable and accrued expenses and $72 million received from Photronics in
exchange for entering into a license agreement. 

    Investing Activities:     For 2006, net cash used by investing
activities was $1,756 million, which included cash expenditures for property,
plant and equipment of $1,365 million and net purchases of investment
securities of $858 million.  For 2006,
cash provided by investing activities included $319 million that resulted from
the consolidation of TECH and $97 million from the acquisition of Lexar.  The Company believes that to develop new
product and process technologies, support future growth, achieve operating
efficiencies and maintain product quality, it must continue to invest in
manufacturing technologies, facilities and capital equipment, research and
development, and product and process technologies.  The Company projects 2007 capital spending of
approximately $4 billion, a significant portion of which is for the capital spending
of IMFT and TECH.  As of August 31, 2006,
the Company had commitments extending into 2007 of approximately $1.7 billion
for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.   

    Financing Activities:     For 2006, net cash provided by financing
activities was $644 million, which includes $936 million received from Intel
for its interest in IMFT, $171 million from the settlement of call spread
options, $113 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock, $48
million received from Photronics for its interest in MP Mask, net of $624 million
of payments on debt and equipment purchase contracts.  (See  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Joint
Ventures.)   

  In the third quarter of 2006, the Company s TECH joint
venture repaid $246 million of its outstanding notes that had been included in
the debt recorded by the Company in the initial consolidation of TECH.  TECH also entered into a credit facility that
will enable it to borrow up to $400 million. 
TECH expects to draw on this facility in future periods to fund its
capital expenditures.  

  In the second quarter of 2006, the Company s $633
million 2.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes ( Notes ) were converted into
53.7 million shares of the Company s common stock.  In addition, the Company s related interest
rate swap terminated by its terms on February 6, 2006 and, as a result, $35
million pledged as collateral for the swap became unrestricted.  

  On February 14, 2006, the Company terminated its
outstanding call spread options covering a total of approximately 53.7 million
shares of its common stock ( Call Spread Options ) and received $171 million
for the settlement.  The Company originally entered into the Call Spread
Options in connection with its issuance of the Notes.   

29     

Access to capital
markets has historically been important to the Company.  Depending on market conditions, the Company
may issue registered or unregistered securities to raise capital to fund a
portion of its operations.  

    Joint Ventures    

  As of August 31, 2006, IMFT had $654 million of cash
and marketable investment securities and $261 million due under notes
receivable from Intel.  IMFT s cash and
marketable investment securities are not anticipated to be made available to
finance the Company s other operations. 
Subject to certain conditions, the Company is required to make
additional contributions to IMFT of approximately $650 million over the next
two years and expects to make additional investments as appropriate to support
the growth of IMFT s operations.    

  On November 6, 2006, the Company announced plans to
form a new joint venture with Intel to construct a facility in Singapore for
the manufacture of NAND Flash memory. 
The Company expects to contribute approximately $1.5 billion in cash to
the new joint venture over the next three years.  

  As of August 31, 2006, TECH had $222 million of cash
and marketable investment securities. 
TECH s cash and marketable investment securities are not anticipated to
be made available to finance the Company s other operations.  On March 3, 2006, certain shareholders
of TECH, including the Company and the Singapore Economic Development Board
( EDB ), contributed approximately $260 million in cash as additional capital
to TECH, of which the Company s contribution was approximately $130 million. 
The Company s option to purchase EDB s shares in TECH is exercisable at any
time until October 1, 2009.  EDB s option to put its shares in TECH
to the Company is exercisable from March 3, 2008 until October 1,
2010.  Exercise of either option would
require the Company to pay approximately $250 million to EDB.  (See  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Joint
Ventures   TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. )  

  Contractual
Obligations:  The following table
summarizes the Company s significant contractual obligations at August 31,
2006, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on the Company s
liquidity and cash flows in future periods.  

The obligations disclosed above do not include
contractual obligations recorded on the Company s balance sheet as current
liabilities except for the current portion of long-term debt.  The expected timing of payment amounts of the
obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information.  Timing and actual amounts paid may differ
depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services, market prices or
changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.   

  Purchase obligations include all commitments to
purchase goods or services of either a fixed or minimum quantity that meet any
of the following criteria: (1) they are noncancelable, (2) the Company would
incur a penalty if the agreement was cancelled, or (3) the Company must make
specified minimum payments even if it does not take delivery of the contracted
products or services ( take-or-pay ).  If
the obligation to purchase goods or services is noncancelable, the entire value
of the contract was included in the above table.  If the obligation is cancelable, but the
Company would incur a penalty if cancelled, the dollar amount of the penalty
was included as a purchase obligation. 
Contracted minimum amounts specified in take-or-pay contracts are also
included in the above table as they represent the portion of each contract that
is a firm commitment.  

30     

Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements     

  As of August 31, 2006, the Company had stock warrants
outstanding that may be considered off-balance sheet arrangements.  In 2001, the Company received $480 million
from the issuance of warrants to purchase 29.1 million shares of the Company s
common stock.  The warrants entitle the
holders to exercise their warrants and purchase shares of the Company s common
stock for $56.00 per share (the  Exercise Price ) at any time through May 15,
2008 (the  Expiration Date ).  Warrants
exercised prior to the Expiration Date will be settled on a  net share  basis,
wherein investors receive common stock equal to the difference between $56.00
and the average closing sale price for the common shares over the 30 trading
days immediately preceding the Exercise Date. 
At expiration, the Company may elect to settle the warrants on a net
share basis or for cash, provided certain conditions are satisfied.  As of August 31, 2006, there had been no
exercises of warrants and all warrants issued remained outstanding.  

  The Company has an agreement to construct a facility
to produce photomasks and sell such facility to its MP Mask joint venture
partner, Photronics, Inc., for a negotiated amount.  The Company does not expect to incur a loss
on such sale.  

   Recently Issued
Accounting Standards      

  In September 2006, the SEC staff issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year
Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial
Statements.   In SAB No. 108, the SEC
staff established an approach that requires quantification of financial
statement misstatements based on the effects of the misstatements on each of
the company s financial statements and the related financial statement
disclosures.  SAB No. 108 permits
existing public companies to initially apply its provisions either by (i)
restating prior financial statements or (ii) recording the cumulative effect as
adjustments to the carrying values of assets and liabilities with an offsetting
adjustment recorded to the opening balance of retained earnings.  The Company is required to adopt SAB No. 108
by the end of 2007 and does not expect adoption to have a significant impact on
the Company s results of operations or financial condition.  

  In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined
Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements
No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).   SFAS No.
158 requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a
defined benefit postretirement plan (other than a multiemployer plan) as an
asset or liability in its statement of financial position and to recognize
changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through
comprehensive income. SFAS No. 158 also requires an employer to measure the
funded status of a plan as of the date of its year-end statement of financial
position, with limited exceptions.  Under
FAS No. 158, the Company is required to initially recognize the funded status
of a defined benefit postretirement plan and to provide the required
disclosures as of the end of 2007.  The
Company is evaluating the impact this statement will have on its consolidated
financial statements.   

  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair
Value Measurements.  SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework
for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP),
and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.  FAS No. 157 applies under other accounting
pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements.  The Company is required to adopt FAS No. 157
effective at the beginning of 2009. The Company is evaluating the impact this
statement will have on its consolidated financial statements.   

  In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB
Interpretation Number 48 ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.   The interpretation contains a two step
approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in
accordance with SFAS No. 109.  The
first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if
the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the
position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or
litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as
the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon
ultimate settlement. The Company is required to adopt FIN 48 effective at the
beginning of 2008. The Company is evaluating the impact this statement will have
on its consolidated financial statements.   

  In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,
 Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments.   SFAS No. 155 permits fair value remeasurement
for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that
otherwise would require bifurcation.  As
of August 31, 2006, the Company did not have any hybrid financial instruments
subject to the fair value election under SFAS No. 155.  The Company is required to adopt SFAS No. 155
effective at the beginning of 2008.  

31     

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections.   SFAS No.
154 changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change
in accounting principle.  The Company is
required to adopt SFAS No. 154 for accounting changes and error corrections
that occur after the beginning of 2007. 
The Company s results of operations and financial condition will only be
impacted following the adoption of SFAS No. 154 if it implements changes in
accounting principle that are addressed by the standard or corrects accounting
errors in future periods.  

  In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47
( FIN 47 ),  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,  which
clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair
value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value can be
reasonably estimated even though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or)
method of settlement.  The Company
adopted FIN 47 in the third quarter of 2006. 
The adoption of FIN 47 did not have a significant impact on the
Company s results of operations or financial condition.  

   Critical
Accounting Estimates     

  The preparation of financial statements and related
disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates
and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues, expenses and related disclosures. 
Estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, forecasted
future events and various other assumptions that the Company believes to be
reasonable under the circumstances. 
Estimates and judgments may vary under different assumptions or
conditions.  The Company evaluates its
estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. 
Management believes the accounting policies below are critical in the
portrayal of the Company s financial condition and results of operations and
require management s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments.  

    Acquisitions and consolidations:      Determination and the allocation thereof of
the purchase price of acquired operations significantly influences the period
in which costs are recognized.    Accounting for acquisitions and consolidations
requires the Company to estimate the fair value of the individual assets and
liabilities acquired as well as various forms of consideration given.  The Company typically obtains independent
third party valuation studies to assist in determining fair values, which may
include assistance in determining future cash flows, appropriate discount rates
and comparable market values.  The
estimation of the fair values of consideration given and assets and liabilities
acquired involves a number of judgments, assumptions and estimates that could
materially affect the amount and timing of costs recognized.  

    Contingencies:        The
Company is subject to the possibility of losses from various
contingencies.  Considerable judgment is
necessary to estimate the probability and amount of any loss from such
contingencies.  An accrual is made when
it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired
and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.  The Company accrues a liability and charges
operations for the estimated costs of adjudication or settlement of asserted
and unasserted claims existing as of the balance sheet date.    

    Income taxes:        The
Company is required to estimate its provision for income taxes and amounts
ultimately payable or recoverable in numerous tax jurisdictions around the
world.  Estimates involve interpretations
of regulations and are inherently complex. 
Resolution of income tax treatments in individual jurisdictions may not
be known for many years after completion of any fiscal year.  The Company is also required to evaluate the
realizability of its deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis in accordance with
U.S. GAAP, which requires the assessment of the Company s performance and other
relevant factors when determining the need for a valuation allowance with
respect to these deferred tax assets. 
Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on the Company s ability
to generate future taxable income.  

    Inventories:      Inventories are stated at the lower of
average cost or market value.  Cost
includes labor, material and overhead costs, including product and process
technology costs.  Determining market
value of inventories involves numerous judgments, including projecting average
selling prices and sales volumes for future periods and costs to complete
products in work in process inventories. 
To project average selling prices and sales volumes, the Company reviews
recent sales volumes, existing customer orders, current contract prices,
industry analysis of supply and demand, seasonal factors, general economic
trends and other information.  When these
analyses reflect estimated market values below the Company s manufacturing
costs, the Company records a charge to cost of goods sold in advance of when
the inventory is actually sold. 
Differences in forecasted average selling prices used in calculating
lower of cost or market adjustments can result in significant changes in the
estimated net realizable value of product inventories and accordingly the
amount of write-down recorded.  Due to
the volatile nature of the semiconductor memory industry, actual selling prices
and volumes often vary significantly from projected prices and volumes and, as
a result, the timing of when product costs are charged to operations can vary
significantly.  

32     

U.S. GAAP provides for products to be grouped into
categories in order to compare costs to market values.  The amount of any inventory write-down can
vary significantly depending on the determination of inventory categories.  The Company s inventories have been
categorized as Memory products or Imaging products.  The major characteristics the Company
considers in determining inventory categories are product type and markets.  

    Product and process technology:     Costs incurred to acquire product and process
technology or to patent technology developed by the Company are capitalized and
amortized on a straight-line basis over periods currently ranging up to 10
years.  The Company capitalizes a portion
of costs incurred based on its analysis of historical and projected patents
issued as a percent of patents filed. 
Capitalized product and process technology costs are amortized over the
shorter of (i) the estimated useful life of the technology, (ii) the patent
term or (iii) the term of the technology agreement. 

    Property, plant and equipment:          The Company reviews the carrying value of property, plant and equipment
for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value
of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable from the estimated future
cash flows expected to result from its use and/or disposition.  In cases where undiscounted expected future
cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized
equal to the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair
value of the assets.  The estimation of
future cash flows involves numerous assumptions which require judgment by the
Company, including, but not limited to, future use of the assets for Company
operations versus sale or disposal of the assets, future selling prices for the
Company s products and future production and sales volumes.  In addition, judgment is required by the
Company in determining the groups of assets for which impairment tests are
separately performed.  

    Research and development:      Costs
related to the conceptual formulation and design of products and processes are
expensed as research and development when incurred.  Determining when product development is
complete requires judgment by the Company. 
The Company deems development of a product complete once the product has
been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability.   

    Stock-based compensation:      In 2006, the Company adopted   SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective
application method and began accounting for its stock-based compensation using
a fair-valued based recognition method. 
Under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), stock-based compensation cost
is estimated at the grant date based on the fair-value of the award and is
recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period of the
award.  Determining the appropriate
fair-value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based awards at the
grant date requires considerable judgment, including estimating stock price
volatility, expected option life and forfeiture rates.  The Company develops its estimates based on
historical data and market information which can change significantly over
time.  A small change in the estimates
used can result in a relatively large change in the estimated valuation.   

  The Company uses the Black-Scholes option valuation
model to value employee stock awards. 
The Company estimates stock price volatility based on an average of its
historical volatility and the implied volatility derived from traded options on
the Company s stock.  Estimated option
life and forfeiture rate assumptions are derived from historical data.  For stock based compensation awards with
graded vesting that were granted after 2005, the Company recognizes
compensation expense using the straight-line amortization method.   

33     

Item 7A.          Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk       

   Interest Rate Risk     

  As of August 31, 2006, $469 million     of
the Company s $571 million in total debt was at fixed interest rates.  As a result, the fair value of the debt
fluctuates based on changes in market interest rates.  The estimated fair market value of the
Company s debt was $627 million as of August 31, 2006.  

   Foreign Currency
Exchange Rate Risk     

  The information in this section should be read in
conjunction with the information related to changes in the exchange rates of
foreign currency in  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely
affect the Company s results of operations or financial condition.  

  The functional currency for substantially all of the
Company s operations is the U.S. dollar. 
The Company held aggregate cash and other assets in foreign currencies
valued at U.S. $425 million as of August 31, 2006, and U.S. $344 million as of
September 1, 2005 (including cash and equivalents denominated in yen valued at
U.S. $222 million as of August 31, 2006, and U.S. $215 million as of September
1, 2005; cash and equivalents denominated in Singapore dollars valued at U.S.
$42 million; and deferred income tax assets denominated in yen valued at U.S.
$64 million as of August 31, 2006, and U.S. $51 million as of September 1,
2005).  The Company also held aggregate
foreign currency liabilities valued at U.S. $615 million as of August 31, 2006,
and U.S. $575 million as of September 1, 2005 (including debt denominated in
yen valued at U.S. $228 million as of August 31, 2006, and U.S. $299 million as
of September 1, 2005).  Foreign currency
receivables and payables as of August 31, 2006, were comprised primarily of
yen, euros, Singapore dollars and British pounds.          The Company estimates that, based on its
assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar as of
August 31, 2006, a 1% change in the exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar would
result in foreign currency gains or losses of approximately $1 million for the
yen and $1 million for the euro. 

34  

Item 8.         Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data       

   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Page   

Consolidated Financial Statements as of August 31,
  2006, and September 1, 2005, and for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2006,
  September 1, 2005, and September 2, 2004:   

Consolidated
  Statements of Operations   

36  

Consolidated
  Balance Sheets   

37  

Consolidated
  Statements of Shareholders  Equity   

38  

Consolidated
  Statements of Cash Flows   

39  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

40  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

61  

Financial Statement Schedule:   

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   

68  

35     

MICRON
TECHNOLOGY, INC.   

   CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS   
   (Amounts
in millions except per share amounts)  

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   

36     

MICRON TECHNOLOGY,
INC.   

   CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS   
   (Dollars
in millions except par value amounts)  

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   

37     

MICRON TECHNOLOGY,
INC.   

   CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY   
   (Amounts
in millions)  

See accompanying
notes to consolidated financial statements.   

38     

MICRON TECHNOLOGY,
INC.   

   CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   
   (Amounts
in millions)  

See accompanying
notes to consolidated financial statements.   

39  

MICRON TECHNOLOGY,
INC.     

   NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
   (All
tabular dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts)  

   Significant
Accounting Policies   

    Basis of
presentation:    
Micron Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to
collectively as the  Company ) manufacture and market DRAM, NAND Flash memory,
CMOS image sensors and other semiconductor components.  The Company has two reportable segments,
Memory and Imaging.   The Memory segment s
primary products are DRAM and NAND Flash and the Imaging segment s primary
product is CMOS image sensors.  The
accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and include the
accounts of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany transactions and
balances have been eliminated. 

  The Company s
fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to
August 31.  The Company s fiscal 2006 and
2005 contained 52 weeks.  The Company s
fiscal 2004 contained 53 weeks.  All
period references are to the Company s fiscal periods unless otherwise
indicated.  

    Reclassifications:     Certain
reclassifications have been made, none of which affected results of operations,
to present the financial statements on a consistent basis. 

    Use of estimates:     The preparation of financial statements and
related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related
disclosures.  Estimates and judgments are
based on historical experience, forecasted future events and various other assumptions
that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Estimates and judgments may differ under
different assumptions or conditions.  The
Company evaluates its estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis.  Actual results could differ from estimates. 

    Certain
concentrations:     Approximately
70% of the Company s net sales for 2006 were to the computing market, including
desktop PCs, notebooks, servers and workstations.  Sales to one customer were 11%, 11% and 13%
of the Company s net sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  Sales to another customer were 12% and 14% of
the Company s net sales in 2005 and 2004, respectively.  Sales of DRAM and imaging products
constituted 76% and 14%, respectively, of the Company s net sales for 2006 and
no other product group individually constituted greater than 10% of the Company s
net sales.  Certain components used by
the Company in manufacturing semiconductor products are available from a
limited number of suppliers. 

  Financial
instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit
risk consist principally of cash, investment securities and trade
receivables.  The Company invests through
high-credit-quality financial institutions and, by policy, limits the
concentration of credit exposure by restricting investments with any single
obligor.  A concentration of credit risk
may exist with respect to trade receivables as a substantial portion of the
Company s customers are affiliated with the computing industry.  The Company performs ongoing credit
evaluations of customers worldwide and generally does not require collateral
from its customers.  Historically, the
Company has not experienced significant losses on receivables.  

    Product warranty:     The Company generally provides a limited
warranty that its products are in compliance with Company specifications
existing at the time of delivery.  Under the Company s general terms and
conditions of sale, liability for certain failures of product during a stated
warranty period is usually limited to repair or replacement of defective items
or return of, or a credit with respect to, amounts paid for such items. 
Under certain circumstances, the Company may provide more extensive limited
warranty coverage and general legal principles may impose upon the Company more
extensive liability than that provided under the Company s general terms and
conditions.  The Company s warranty
obligations are not material. 

    Revenue
recognition:    The
Company recognizes product or license revenue when persuasive evidence of a
sales arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or
determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.  Because of frequent changes in market prices
for the Company s products, sales made under agreements allowing pricing
protection or rights of return (other than for product warranty) are deferred
until customers have sold the product. 

40     

Research and
development:    
Costs related to the conceptual formulation and design of products and
processes are expensed as research and development as incurred.  Determining when product development is
complete requires judgment by the Company. 
The Company deems development of a product complete once the product has
been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability.  Subsequent to product qualification, product
costs are valued in inventory.  Product
design and other research and development costs for NAND Flash are shared
equally among the Company and Intel. 
Costs charged to Intel are reflected as a reduction of research and
development expense.  (See  Joint Ventures
  IM Flash Technologies, LLC  note.) 

    Stock-based
compensation:     Effective the beginning of 2006, the Company
adopted SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  and elected to adopt the
modified prospective application method. 
Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant
date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as expense over
the requisite service period.  For stock
awards granted in 2006, expenses are amortized under the straight-line
attribution method.  For stock awards
granted prior to 2006, expenses are amortized under the multiple option method
prescribed by FASB Interpretation No. 28. 
Previously reported amounts have not been restated.  The Company adopted the alternative
transition method provided in FASB Staff Position No. 123(R)-3 for calculating
the tax effects of share-based compensation. 

    Functional
currency:     The
U.S. dollar is the Company s functional currency for substantially all of its
operations. 

    Earnings per
share:     Basic
earnings per share is computed based on the weighted-average number of common
shares and stock rights outstanding. 
Diluted earnings per share is computed based on the weighted-average
number of common shares and stock rights outstanding plus the dilutive effects
of stock options, warrants and convertible notes.  Potential common shares that would increase
earnings per share amounts or decrease loss per share amounts are antidilutive
and are, therefore, excluded from diluted earnings per share calculations. 

    Financial
instruments:    
Cash equivalents include highly liquid short-term investments with
original maturities of three months or less, readily convertible to known
amounts of cash.  Investments with original
maturities greater than three months and remaining maturities less than one
year are classified as short-term investments. 
Investments with remaining maturities greater than one year are
classified as other noncurrent assets. 
Securities classified as available-for-sale are stated at market
value.  The carrying value of investment
securities sold is determined using the specific identification method. 

  The amounts
reported as cash and equivalents, short-term investments, receivables, other
assets, accounts payable and accrued expenses and equipment purchase contracts
approximate their fair values.  The
estimated fair value of the Company s debt was $627 million and $1,213 million
as of August 31, 2006 and September 1, 2005, respectively.  The fair value estimates presented herein
were based on market interest rates and other market information available to
management as of each balance sheet date presented.  The use of different market assumptions
and/or estimation methodologies could have a material effect on the estimated
fair value amounts.  The approximate fair
values do not take into consideration expenses that could be incurred in an
actual settlement.  

    Inventories:     Inventories are stated at the lower of
average cost or market value.  Cost
includes labor, material and overhead costs, including product and process
technology costs.  Determining market
value of inventories involves numerous judgments, including projecting average
selling prices and sales volumes for future periods and costs to complete
products in work in process inventories. 
As a result of these analyses, when market values are below the Company s
costs, the Company records a charge to cost of goods sold in advance of when
the inventory is actually sold.  The
Company s inventories have been categorized as Memory products or Imaging
products for purposes of determining average cost and market value.  The major characteristics the Company
considers in determining categories are product type and markets. 

    Product and
process technology:    
Costs incurred to acquire product and process technology or to patent
technology developed by the Company are capitalized and amortized on a
straight-line basis over periods currently ranging up to 10 years.  The Company capitalizes a portion of costs
incurred based on its analysis of historical and projected patents issued as a
percent of patents filed.  Capitalized
product and process technology costs are amortized over the shorter of (i) the
estimated useful life of the technology, (ii) the patent term or (iii) the term
of the technology agreement. 
Fully-amortized costs are removed from product and process technology
and accumulated amortization. 

41     

Property, plant
and equipment:    
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost and depreciated using
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of 5 to 30 years for
buildings, 2 to 20 years for equipment and 2 to 5 years for software.  Assets held for sale are carried at the lower
of cost or estimated fair value and are included in other noncurrent assets.  When property or equipment is retired or
otherwise disposed of, the net book value of the asset is removed from the
Company s accounts and any net gain or loss is included in the Company s
results of operations. 

  The Company
capitalizes interest on borrowings during the active construction period of
major capital projects.  Capitalized
interest is added to the cost of the underlying assets and is amortized over
the useful lives of the assets.  The
Company capitalized interest costs of $10 million, $2 million and $1 million in
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, in connection with various capital projects.  

    Recently issued
accounting standards:    
In September 2006, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB )
No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying
Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements.   In SAB No. 108, the SEC staff established an
approach that requires quantification of financial statement misstatements
based on the effects of the misstatements on each of the company s financial
statements and the related financial statement disclosures.  SAB No. 108 permits existing public companies
to initially apply its provisions either by (i) restating prior financial
statements or (ii) recording the cumulative effect as adjustments to the
carrying values of assets and liabilities with an offsetting adjustment
recorded to the opening balance of retained earnings.  The Company is required to adopt SAB No. 108
by the end of 2007 and does not expect adoption to have a significant impact on
the Company s results of operations or financial condition. 

  In September 2006,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).  
SFAS No. 158 requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or
underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan (other than a
multiemployer plan) as an asset or liability in its statement of financial
position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which
the changes occur through comprehensive income. 
SFAS No. 158 also requires an employer to measure the funded status of a
plan as of the date of its year-end statement of financial position, with
limited exceptions.  Under SFAS No. 158,
the Company is required to initially recognize the funded status of a defined
benefit postretirement plan and to provide the required disclosures as of the
end of 2007.  The Company is evaluating
the impact this statement will have on its consolidated financial statements.  

  In September 2006,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements.   SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes
a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting
principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.  SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting
pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements.  The Company is required to adopt FAS No. 157
effective at the beginning of 2009.  The
Company is evaluating the impact this statement will have on its consolidated
financial statements.  

  In June 2006,
the FASB issued FASB Interpretation Number 48 ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.   The interpretation contains a two step
approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in
accordance with SFAS No. 109.  The
first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if
the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the
position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or
litigation processes, if any.  The second
step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50%
likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company is required to
adopt FIN 48 effective at the beginning of 2008.  The Company is evaluating the impact this
statement will have on its consolidated financial statements.  

  In February 2006,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial
Instruments.   SFAS No. 155 permits fair
value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an
embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation.  As of August 31, 2006, the Company did not
have any hybrid financial instruments subject to the fair value election under
SFAS No. 155.  The Company is required to
adopt SFAS No. 155 effective at the beginning of 2008.  

  In May 2005, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections.   SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the
accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle.  The Company is required to adopt SFAS No. 154
for accounting changes and error corrections that occur after the beginning of
2007.  The Company s results of
operations and financial condition will only be impacted following the adoption
of SFAS No. 154 if it implements changes in accounting principle that are
addressed by the standard or corrects accounting errors in future periods.  

42     

In March 2005, the
FASB issued Interpretation No. 47 ( FIN 47 ),  Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations,  which clarifies that an entity is required to
recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement
obligation if the fair value can be reasonably estimated even though
uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method of settlement.  The Company adopted FIN 47 in the third
quarter of 2006.  The adoption of FIN 47
did not have a significant impact on the Company s results of operations or
financial condition.  

   Supplemental Balance Sheet Information   

In connection with
the acquisition of Lexar in the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded
receivables of $123 million.  (See  Lexar
Media, Inc.  note.)  

  Other receivables
include $51 million due from Intel primarily for amounts related to NAND Flash
product design and process development activities and $51 million due from
Toshiba.  (See  Lexar Media, Inc.  note.)  

In connection with
the consolidation of TECH in the third quarter of 2006, the Company recorded
inventories of $104 million.   (See  Joint Ventures   Tech
Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd.  note.)  In connection with the acquisition of Lexar
in the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded inventories of $75
million.  (See  Lexar Media, Inc.  note.) 

43     

In connection with
the acquisition of Lexar in the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company capitalized
$127 million for customer related intangible assets, $35 million for product
and process technology and $21 million for trademark and trade name intangible
assets with weighted-average useful lives of 8 years, 10 years and 5 years,
respectively.  (See  Lexar Media, Inc. 
note.)  

  During 2006,
including the value of assets acquired from Lexar, the Company capitalized $76
million for product and process technology with a weighted-average useful life
of 10 years.  During 2005, the Company
capitalized $35 million for product and process technology with a
weighted-average useful life of 10 years.  

  In 2006, as a
result of the Company s consolidation of TECH, the Company ceased amortization
of the intangible asset associated with the TECH joint venture supply
arrangement and included the remaining amount as part of the Company s
investment in TECH s net assets, which is eliminated in consolidation.  (See  Joint Ventures   TECH Semiconductor
Singapore Pte. Ltd.  note.)  

  Amortization
expense for intangible assets was $52 million, $51 million and $50 million in
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 
Annual amortization expense for intangible assets held as of August 31,
2006, is estimated to be $67 million for 2007, $67 million for 2008, $56
million for 2009, $47 million for 2010 and $43 million for 2011.  

  In
the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded $486 million of goodwill from
its acquisition of Lexar.  (See  Lexar
Media, Inc.  note.)  As of August 31,
2006, the Company had goodwill of $490 million for its Memory segment and $12
million for its Imaging segment.  As of
September 1, 2005, the Company had goodwill of $4 million for its Memory
segment and $12 million for its Imaging segment.  

Depreciation
expense was $1,258 million, $1,211 million and $1,166 million for 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively.  

  In connection with
the consolidation of TECH in the third quarter of 2006, the Company recorded
property, plant and equipment of $562 million. 
 (See  Joint
Ventures   Tech Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd.  note.) 

44     

In connection with the
consolidation of TECH in the third quarter of 2006, the Company recorded
accounts payable and accrued expenses of $69 million.   (See  Joint Ventures   Tech Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd.  note.)  In connection with the acquisition of Lexar
in the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded accounts payable and
accrued expenses of $181 million.  (See  Lexar
Media, Inc.  note.) 

As of August 31,
2006, notes payable of $219 million denominated in Japanese yen were at a
weighted-average interest rate of 1.2%.  

  The Company s TECH
subsidiary has a credit facility that enables it to borrow up to $400 million
at Singapore Interbank Offered Rate ( SIBOR ) plus 2.5% subject to customary
covenants.  Amounts borrowed under the
facility would be due in quarterly installments through September 2009.  As of August 31, 2006, TECH had not borrowed
any amounts against the credit facility.  

  In connection with
the acquisition of Lexar in the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company assumed
Lexar s $70 million 5.625% convertible notes due April 1, 2010 (the  Lexar
Notes ).  The Lexar Notes are convertible
into the Company s common stock any time at the option of the holders of the
Notes at a price equal to approximately $11.28 per share and are subject to
customary covenants.  The Lexar Notes are redeemable for cash at the
Company s option beginning on April 1, 2008, at a price equal to the
principal amount plus accrued interest. 
The Company may only redeem the Lexar Notes if its common stock has
exceeded 175% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the 30
consecutive trading days prior to delivery of a notice of redemption.  Upon redemption, the Company will be required
to make a payment equal to the net present value of the remaining scheduled
interest payments through April 1, 2010.  

  In the second
quarter of 2006, the Company s $633 million 2.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes
( Notes ) were converted into 53.7 million shares of the Company s common
stock.  In addition, the Company s
related interest rate swap terminated by its terms on February 6, 2006 and, as
a result, $35 million of cash pledged as collateral for the swap became
unrestricted.  On February 14, 2006, the
Company terminated its outstanding call spread options covering a total of
approximately 53.7 million shares of its common stock ( Call Spread Options ). 
The Company originally entered into the Call Spread Options in connection with
its issuance of the Notes.  The Company received $171 million for the
settlement of the Call Spread Options. 
The settlement was accounted for as a capital transaction.  

45     

In 2005, the
Company entered into two yen-dominated loans aggregating 23.5 billion yen ($221
million), payable in semi-annual installments through 2010.  The first, a syndicated term loan for 13.5
billion yen bears interest at the 6-month Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate ( TIBOR )
plus 1.25% (1.40% as of August 31, 2006). 
The second loan for 10.0 billion yen bears interest at a fixed rate of
0.95% and is collateralized by certain equipment owned by the Company.  

  In 2005, the
Company received $161 million in proceeds from sales-leaseback transactions and
as a result recorded capital lease obligations aggregating $157 million with a
weighted-average imputed interest rate of 6.3%, payable in periodic
installments through January 2009.  

  Certain notes
payable are collateralized by property, plant and equipment with a carrying
value of $184 million as of August 31, 2006. 
Equipment under capital leases and accumulated amortization thereon were
$277 million and $102 million, respectively, as of August 31, 2006, and $254
million and $74 million, respectively, as of September 1, 2005.  

  As of August 31, 2006,
maturities of notes payable and future minimum lease payments under capital
lease obligations were as follows:  

Commitments     

  As of August 31, 2006,
the Company had commitments of approximately $1.7 billion for the acquisition
of property, plant and equipment.  The
Company has an agreement to construct a facility to produce photomasks and sell
such facility to its MP Mask partner for a negotiated amount.  The Company does not expect to incur a loss
on such sale.  The Company leases certain
facilities, equipment and software under operating leases.  Total rental expense on all operating leases
was $30 million, $23 million and $21 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  Minimum future rental
commitments under operating leases aggregated $81 million as of August 31,
2006, and are payable as follows:  $30
million in 2007; $17 million in 2008; $6 million in 2009; $4 million in 2010;
$3 million in 2011 and $21 million in 2012 and thereafter.  

   Contingencies     

  As is typical in
the semiconductor and other high technology industries, from time to time,
others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that the Company s products
or manufacturing processes infringe their intellectual property rights.  In this regard, the Company is engaged in
litigation with Rambus, Inc. ( Rambus ) relating to certain of Rambus  patents
and certain of the Company s claims and defenses.  Lawsuits between Rambus and the Company are
pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of California, Germany, France, and Italy.  The Company also is engaged in patent
litigation with Tadahiro Ohmi ( Ohmi ) in the U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Texas and with Mosaid Technologies, Inc. ( Mosaid ) in both
the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California and the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.  Among other things, the above lawsuits
pertain to certain of the Company s SDRAM, DDR SDRAM, DDR2 SDRAM, RLDRAM, and
image sensor products, which account for a significant portion of net sales.  

46     

The Company is
unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against the
Company.  A court determination that the
Company s products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual
property rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require
the Company to make material changes to its products and/or manufacturing
processes.  Any of the foregoing could
have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, results of operations
or financial condition.  

  On June 17, 2002,
the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California seeking information regarding an investigation
by the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (the  DOJ ) into
possible antitrust violations in the  Dynamic Random Access Memory  or  DRAM 
industry.  The Company is cooperating
fully and actively with the DOJ in its investigation.  The Company s cooperation is pursuant to the
terms of the DOJ s Corporate Leniency Policy, which provides that in exchange
for the Company s full, continuing and complete cooperation in the pending
investigation, the Company will not be subject to prosecution, fines or other
penalties from the DOJ.  Subsequent to
the commencement of the DOJ investigation, at least eighty-four (seven of which
have been dismissed) purported class action lawsuits have been filed against
the Company and other DRAM suppliers in various federal and state courts in the
United States and in Puerto Rico by direct and indirect purchasers alleging
price-fixing in violation of federal and state antitrust laws, violations of
state unfair competition law, and/or unjust enrichment relating to the sale and
pricing of DRAM products.  The complaints
seek treble damages for the alleged damages sustained by purported class
members, in addition to restitution, costs and attorneys  fees, as well as an
injunction against the allegedly unlawful conduct.  The Court has granted plaintiffs  motion to
certify the proposed class of direct purchasers.  

  Three purported
class action lawsuits also have been filed in Canada, alleging violations of
the Canadian Competition Act.  The
substantive allegations in these cases are similar to those asserted in the
cases filed in the United States and Puerto Rico.  

  In addition,
various states, through their Attorneys General, have filed suit against the
Company and other DRAM manufacturers.  On
July 14, 2006, the following states filed suit in the U.S. District Court for
the Northern District of California: 
Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida,
Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire,
New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South
Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia,
and Wisconsin.  The amended complaint,
filed September 8, 2006, alleges, among other things, violations of the Sherman
Act, Cartwright Act, and certain other states  consumer protection and
antitrust laws and seeks damages, and injunctive and other relief.  Additionally, on July 13, 2006, the State of
New York filed a similar suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York.  That case was
subsequently transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California for pre-trial purposes.  

  On October 11,
2006, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of California seeking information regarding an
investigation by the DOJ into possible antitrust violations in the  Static
Random Access Memory  or  SRAM  industry. 
The Company believes that it is not a target of the investigation and is
cooperating fully and actively with the DOJ in its investigation of the SRAM
industry.  

  Subsequent to the
issuance of subpoenas to the SRAM industry, a number of purported class action
lawsuits have been filed against the Company and other SRAM suppliers.  Two cases have been filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California asserting claims on behalf
of a purported class of individuals and entities that purchased SRAM directly
from various SRAM suppliers during the period from January 1, 1998 through
December 31, 2005.  Additionally, eight
cases have filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California and one in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Tennessee asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of individuals and
entities that indirectly purchased SRAM and/or products containing SRAM from
various SRAM suppliers during the time period from January 1, 1998 through
December 31, 2005.  The complaints allege
price fixing in violation of federal antitrust laws and state antitrust and
unfair competition laws and seek treble monetary damages, restitution, costs, interest
and attorneys  fees.  

  On May 5, 2004,
Rambus filed a complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California (San
Francisco County) against the Company and other DRAM suppliers.  The complaint alleges various causes of
action under California state law including conspiracy to restrict output and
fix prices on Rambus DRAM ( RDRAM ) and unfair competition.  The complaint seeks treble damages, punitive
damages, attorneys  fees, costs, and a permanent injunction enjoining the
defendants from the conduct alleged in the complaint.  

47     

The Company is
unable to predict the outcome of these lawsuits and investigations.  The final resolution of these alleged
violations of antitrust laws could result in significant liability and could
have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, results of operations
or financial condition.  

  On July 21, 2006,
the Company entered into an agreement with Tessera Technologies, Inc. settling
all outstanding litigation between the companies.  Under the terms of the agreement, the Company
paid $30 million and received a royalty-bearing license to Tessera s Compliance
Chip technology.  

  On February 24,
2006, a putative class action complaint was filed against the Company and
certain of its officers in the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho
alleging claims under Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder.  Four substantially similar complaints
subsequently were filed in the same Court. 
The cases purport to be brought on behalf of a class of purchasers of
the Company s stock during the period February 24, 2001 to February 13,
2003.  The five lawsuits have been
consolidated and a consolidated amended class action complaint was filed on
July 24, 2006.  The complaint generally
alleges violations of federal securities laws based on, among other things,
claimed misstatements or omissions regarding alleged illegal price-fixing
conduct.  The complaint seeks unspecified
damages, interest, attorneys  fees, costs, and expenses.  

  In addition, on
March 23, 2006 a shareholder derivative action was filed in the Fourth District
Court for the State of Idaho (Ada County), allegedly on behalf of and for the
benefit of the Company, against certain of the Company s current and former
officers and directors.  The Company also
was named as a nominal defendant.  The
complaint is based on the same allegations of fact as in the securities class
actions filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho and alleges
breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of
corporate assets, unjust enrichment, and insider trading.  The complaint seeks unspecified damages,
restitution, disgorgement of profits, equitable and injunctive relief,
attorneys  fees, costs, and expenses. 
The complaint is derivative in nature and does not seek monetary damages
from the Company.  However, the Company
may be required, throughout the pendency of the action, to advance payment of
legal fees and costs incurred by the defendants.  

  The Company is
unable to predict the outcome of these cases. 
A court determination in any of these actions against the Company could
result in significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on the
Company s business, results of operations or financial condition.  

  In March 2006,
following the Company s announcement of a definitive agreement to acquire Lexar
Media, Inc. ( Lexar ) in a stock-for-stock merger, four purported class action
complaints were filed in the Superior Court for the State of California
(Alameda County) on behalf of shareholders of Lexar against Lexar and its
directors.  Two of the complaints also
name the Company as a defendant.  The
complaints allege that the defendants breached, or aided and abetted the breach
of, fiduciary duties owed to Lexar shareholders by, among other things,
engaging in self-dealing, failing to engage in efforts to obtain the highest
price reasonably available, and failing to properly value Lexar in connection
with a merger transaction between Lexar and the Company.  The plaintiffs seek, among other things,
injunctive relief preventing, or an order of rescission reversing, the merger,
compensatory damages, interest, attorneys  fees, and costs.  On May 19, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a
motion for preliminary injunction seeking to block the merger.  On May 31, 2006, the Court denied the
motion.  The Company is unable to predict
the outcome of these suits.  A court
determination against the Company could result in significant liability and
could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, results of
operations or financial condition.  (See  Lexar
Media, Inc.  note.)  

  The Company has
accrued a liability and charged operations for the estimated costs of
adjudication or settlement of various asserted and unasserted claims existing
as of the balance sheet date.  The
Company is currently a party to other legal actions arising out of the normal
course of business, none of which is expected to have a material adverse effect
on the Company s business, results of operations or financial condition.  

  In the normal
course of business, the Company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant
to which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party.  It is not possible to predict the maximum
potential amount of future payments under these types of agreements due to the
conditional nature of the Company s obligations and the unique facts and
circumstances involved in each particular agreement.  Historically, payments made by the Company
under these types of agreements have not had a material effect on the Company s
business, results of operations or financial condition.  

48  

Redeemable
Common Stock   

  In  connection with the Company s acquisition on
April 22, 2002, of substantially all of
the assets of Toshiba Corporation s ( Toshiba ) DRAM business as conducted by
Dominion Semiconductor L.L.C., the Company issued Toshiba 1.5 million shares of
common stock and granted Toshiba an option to require the Company to repurchase
the shares for $68 million in cash. 
During the first quarter of 2004, Toshiba exercised its option and the
Company redeemed the 1.5 million shares. 

   Shareholders 
Equity   

     Stock Rights:      On September 24, 2003, the Company received
$450 million, which is included in additional capital in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheet, from Intel Corporation ( Intel ) in exchange for
the issuance of stock rights exchangeable into approximately 33.9 million
shares of the Company s common stock.  On
August 21, 2006, Intel disposed of stock rights for 16.9 million shares of the
Company s common stock.  The shares
issuable pursuant to the remaining stock rights are included in
weighted-average common shares outstanding in the computations of earnings per
share. 

     Common Stock Warrants:      In of
2001, the Company received $480 million from the issuance of warrants to purchase 29.1 million shares of
the Company s common stock.  The warrants
entitle the holders to exercise their warrants and purchase shares of Common
Stock for $56.00 per share (the  Exercise
Price ) at any time through May 15,
2008 (the  Expiration Date ).  Warrants exercised prior to the Expiration Date will be settled on a  net share  basis, wherein investors receive common stock equal
to the difference between $56.00 and the average closing sale price for the
common shares over the 30 trading days immediately preceding the Exercise Date.  At expiration, the Company may
elect to settle the warrants on a net share basis or for cash, provided certain conditions are satisfied.  As
of August 31, 2006, there have been no exercises of warrants and all warrants
issued remain outstanding. 

   Equity Plans   

  As of August 31,
2006, the Company had an aggregate of 164.9 million shares of its common stock
reserved for issuance under its various equity plans, of which 126.2 million
shares were subject to outstanding awards and 38.7 million shares were
available for future grants.  Awards are subject to terms and conditions
as determined by the Company s Board of Directors.  

     Stock Options:    
  Stock options granted by the Company are generally exercisable in
increments of 25% during each year of employment beginning one year from the
date of grant.  Stock options issued prior to January 19, 1998, and after
September 22, 2004, generally expire six years from the date of grant.  All other options expire ten years from date
of grant. 

  In connection with
the Company s acquisition of Lexar on June 21, 2006, the Company assumed Lexar
options, which were converted into options to purchase 6.6 million shares of
the Company s common stock.  (See  Lexar
Media, Inc.  note.)  

  Option activity
for 2006 is summarized as follows:  

49     

The following
table summarizes information about options outstanding as of August 31, 2006:  

The
weighted-average grant-date fair value per share was $5.92, $5.10 and $8.30 for
options granted during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  The weighted-average convert-date fair value
per share for assumed Lexar options was $9.58. 
The total intrinsic value was $46 million, $3 million for options
exercised during 2006 and 2004, respectively. 
The total intrinsic value for options exercised during 2005 was de
minimus.  

  Changes in the Company s
nonvested options for 2006 are summarized as follows:  

As of August 31,
2006, there was $57 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
nonvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 1.6 years. 
The Company expects substantially all of its nonvested options to
vest.  The Company s nonvested options as
of August 31, 2006, have a weighted-average exercise price of $13.08, a
weighted-average remaining contractual life of 5.6 years and an aggregate
intrinsic value of $60 million.  

  The
fair value of each option award is estimated as of the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes model.  Expected
volatilities are based on implied volatilities from traded options on the
Company s stock and historical volatility. 
The expected life of options granted is based on historical experience
and on the terms and conditions of the options. 
The risk-free rates are based on the U.S. Treasury yield in effect at
the time of the grant.  For purposes of
this valuation model, no dividends have been assumed.  The Black-Scholes option valuation model was
developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options which have no
vesting restrictions and are fully transferable and requires the input of
subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility and
estimated option life.  Assumptions used
in the Black-Scholes model are presented below:  

50     

Restricted Stock:     
As of August 31, 2006, there were 2.3 million shares of restricted stock and
restricted stock units outstanding, of which 0.6 million were performance-based
restricted stock awards.  For
service-based restricted stock awards, restrictions generally lapse either in
one-fourth or one-third increments during each year of employment after the
grant date.  For performance-based
restricted stock awards, vesting is contingent upon meeting certain
Company-wide performance goals.  Restricted stock activity for 2006 and
2005 is summarized as follows: 

The
weighted-average grant-date fair value per share was $13.04 and $12.17 for
restricted stock awards granted during 2006 and 2005, respectively.  The total value of awards for which
restrictions lapsed during the 2006 was $2 million.  As of August 31, 2006, there was $20 million
of total unrecognized compensation cost, related to nonvested restricted stock
and stock units awards, which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 1.1 year.  

     Stock Purchase Plan:      The Company s 1989 Employee Stock Purchase
Plan ( ESPP ) allows eligible employees to purchase shares of the Company s
common stock through payroll deductions. 
Prior to July 1, 2005, shares could be purchased at 85% of the lower of
the beginning or ending closing stock prices of each quarterly offering
period.  After July 1, 2005, shares can
be purchased at 95% of the ending closing stock price of each offering
quarterly period.  Shares can be resold
when purchased.  Purchases are limited to
20% of an employee s eligible compensation. 
As of August 31, 2006, 26.8 million shares of the Company s common stock
had been issued under the ESPP and 2.7 million shares were available for future
issuance under the plan. 

     Non-Employee Director
Stock Incentive Plan:      As of August 31, 2006, 44,687 shares of the
Company s common stock had been issued under the 1998 Non-Employee Director
Stock Incentive Plan ( DSIP ) and 455,313 shares were reserved for future
issuance under the plan.  Shares are issued
under the DSIP as compensation to non-employee directors of the Company. 

     Stock-Based Compensation
Expense:          Total compensation cost for the Company s
stock plans in 2006 was $26 million and included the following: 

2006   

Stock-based
  compensation expense by caption:  

Cost of goods sold  

$  

8  

Selling, general and administrative  

11  

Research and development  

7  

$  

26  

Stock-based
  compensation expense by type of award:  

Stock options  

$  

17  

Restricted stock  

9  

$  

26  

51     

The effect of the
application of SFAS No. 123(R) in 2006 was a reduction of $16 million in
operating income, income before taxes and net income, resulting in a $0.02
reduction in basic and diluted earnings per share.  Stock-based compensation expense of $1
million was capitalized and remained in inventory at the end of 2006.  As of August 31, 2006, $77 million of total
unrecognized compensation costs related to non-vested awards is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.5 years.  

  Through
2005, the Company accounted for its stock plans using the intrinsic value
method prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,  and related Interpretations and provided the required pro forma
disclosures of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.   The following presents pro forma income and
per share data as if a fair value based method had been used to account for
stock-based compensation for 2005 and 2004:  

Stock-based
compensation expense in the above presentation does not reflect any significant
income taxes, which is consistent with the Company s treatment of income or
loss from its U.S. operations.  (See  Income
Taxes  note.)  In 2005, the Company
accelerated the vesting of substantially all of its unvested stock options then
outstanding under the Company s stock plans to reduce compensation costs
recognized subsequent to the adoption of SFAS 123(R).  

  Assumptions used in the
Black-Scholes option valuation model to estimate the value of the Company s
options included in pro forma amounts for 2005 and 2004 are presented below:  

Employee Savings Plan   

  The Company has a
401(k) retirement plan ( RAM Plan ) under which U.S. employees may contribute
up to 45% of their eligible pay (subject to IRS annual contribution limits) to
various savings alternatives, none of which include direct investment in the
Company s common stock.  Under the plan,
the Company matches in cash eligible contributions from employees up to 3% of
the employee s annual eligible earnings, or $1,500, whichever is greater.  The Company may provide additional
contributions based on its financial performance.  Contribution expense for the Company s RAM
Plan was $26 million, $18 million and $14 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  

52     

Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net   

  Other operating
income for 2006 includes $230 million of net proceeds for the sale of the
Company s existing NAND flash memory designs and certain related technology to
Intel net of amounts paid by the Company for a perpetual, paid-up license to
use and modify such designs.  Other
operating income for 2006 also includes $23 million in additional amounts
expected to be reimbursed resulting from the extension of an economic
development agreement, which allows the Company to recover amounts relating to
certain investments in the IMFT Lehi facility. 
Other operating income for 2005 includes gains net of losses on
disposals of semiconductor equipment of $13 million and $12 million in receipts
from the U.S. Government in connection with anti-dumping tariffs.  Other operating expense for 2004 includes
losses of $17 million from changes in currency exchange rates.  Other operating income for 2004 includes $7
million from the Commonwealth of Virginia for meeting investment commitments at
the Virginia wafer fabrication facility and net gains of $4 million on
write-downs and disposals of semiconductor equipment.  

   Income Taxes   

  Income (loss) before
taxes and the income tax (provision) benefit consisted of the following:  

The Company s
income tax (provision) computed using the U.S. federal statutory rate and the
Company s income tax (provision) benefit is reconciled as follows:  

State taxes reflect investment tax credits of $23
million, $14 million and $9 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

53     

Deferred income taxes
reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the bases of
assets and liabilities for financial reporting and income tax purposes.  The Company s deferred tax assets and
liabilities consist of the following as of the end of the periods shown below:  

The Company has a
valuation allowance against substantially all of its U.S. net deferred tax
assets.  As of August 31, 2006, the
Company had aggregate U.S. tax net operating loss carryforwards of $1.7 billion
and unused U.S. tax credit carryforwards of $164 million.  The Company also has unused state tax net
operating loss carryforwards of $1.4 billion and unused state tax credits of
$163 million.  During 2006, the Company
utilized approximately $1.1 billion of its U.S. tax net operating loss
carryforwards as a result of IMFT, MP Mask and related transactions.  Substantially all of the net operating loss
carryforwards expire in 2022 to 2025 and substantially all of the tax credit
carryforwards expire in 2013 to 2026.  

  The changes in
valuation allowance of $(114) million and $25 million in 2006 and 2005,
respectively, are primarily due to uncertainties of realizing certain U.S. net
operating losses and certain tax credit carryforwards.  The change in the valuation allowance in 2006
and 2005 includes $12 million and $2 million, respectively, for stock plan
deductions, which will be credited to additional capital if realized.  

  Provision has been
made for deferred taxes on undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries to
the extent that dividend payments from such companies are expected to result in
additional tax liability.  Remaining undistributed
earnings of $686 million as of August 31, 2006, 
have been indefinitely reinvested; therefore, no provision has been made
for taxes due upon remittance of these earnings.  Determination of the amount of unrecognized
deferred tax liability on these unremitted earnings is not practicable.  

54  

Earnings Per
Share   

As of August 31, 2006, Intel
held stock rights that are exchangeable into approximately 16.9 million shares
of the Company s common stock.  The
shares issuable pursuant to the stock rights are considered outstanding common
shares in the computations of basic and diluted earnings per share.  (See  Shareholders  Equity    Stock Rights  note.)  

  Listed below are the potential common shares, as of
the end of the periods shown below, that could dilute basic earnings per share
in the future that were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per
share because to do so would have been antidilutive:  

Lexar Media,
Inc.   

On June 21, 2006, the Company acquired Lexar, a
designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of flash memory products, in a
stock for stock merger to broaden the Company s NAND product offering, enhance
its retail presence and strengthen its portfolio of intellectual property.  Pursuant to the terms of the merger
agreement, each issued and outstanding share of common stock of Lexar was
converted into 0.5925 shares of Micron s common stock (the  Exchange Ratio ),
and each issued, outstanding and unexercised Lexar employee stock option with
an exercise price per share of $9.54 or less was converted into a Micron
employee stock option using the Exchange Ratio. 
In connection therewith, the Company issued 50.7 million shares of
common stock, issued 6.6 million stock options and incurred other acquisition
costs resulting in an aggregate purchase price of $886 million.  The Company s results of operations for 2006
include the results of Lexar, which are included in the Company s Memory
segment, for the period subsequent to the acquisition date.  

55     

The $886 million
purchase price was allocated to the assets and liabilities of Lexar based on a
preliminary estimate of fair values as follows:   

As of June 21, 2006, the estimated fair value of
Lexar s convertible debt exceeded its face value by $43 million.  The convertible debt was recorded at its $70
million face value and the $43 million excess, which, in substance, represents
a capital transaction, was recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements as additional capital in accordance with APB Opinion No. 14.   

  Effective September 15, 2006, the Company and Toshiba
Corporation entered into agreements settling all outstanding NAND flash
memory-related litigation between the companies.  Toshiba purchased certain of the Company s
semiconductor technology patents and licensed certain patents previously owned
by Lexar.  The Company will receive
payments totaling $288 million over three years, substantial portion of which
is reflected in the Company s purchase accounting for Lexar at an imputed
interest rate of 5.9%.  

  The following
unaudited pro forma information presents the consolidated results of operations
of the Company as if the acquisition of Lexar had taken place at the beginning
of 2006 and at the beginning of 2005. 
The pro forma information does not necessary reflect the actual results
that would have occurred nor is it necessarily indicative of future results of
operations.  

Joint Ventures   

IM Flash
Technologies, LLC ( IMFT ):      IMFT, which began operations on January 6,
2006, is a joint venture between the Company and Intel that was formed to
manufacture NAND Flash memory products for the exclusive benefit of its
partners.  In connection with the
formation of IMFT, the Company contributed land and facilities in Lehi, Utah, a
fully paid lease of a portion of the Company s manufacturing facility in
Manassas, Virginia, a wafer supply agreement to be supported by the Company s
operations located in Boise, Idaho and $250 million in cash.  The aggregate fair value of these
contributions was $1.245 billion.  In
connection with the contribution of land and facilities in Lehi, Utah, the
Company recorded a $2 million gain in the second quarter of 2006, which is
included in other non-operating income in the accompanying consolidated
statement of operations.  Intel
contributed $1.196 billion in cash and notes to IMFT.  As a result of these contributions, the
Company owns 51% and Intel owns 49% of IMFT. 
The parties share the output of IMFT generally in proportion to their
ownership in IMFT.  Notes receivable from
Intel in the amount of $261 million, for its contribution to IMFT, are
accounted for as a reduction to noncontrolling interest and are not included in
receivables as of August 31, 2006. 

56     

Under the terms of the lease, IMFT has the use of
approximately 50% of the Company s manufacturing facility in Manassas, Virginia
for a period of 10 years.  IMFT purchases
and installs manufacturing equipment into the leased facility which is operated
and maintained by the Company.  The cost
of operating and maintaining the equipment is charged to IMFT.  Under the terms of a wafer supply agreement,
the Company manufactures wafers for IMFT in its Boise, Idaho facility for a
period of five years.    

  IMFT manufactures NAND Flash memory products based on
NAND Flash designs developed by the Company and Intel and licensed to the
Company.  Product design and other
research and development costs for NAND Flash are shared equally among the
Company and Intel.  In the second quarter
of 2006, the Company received net proceeds of $230 million from Intel for the
sale of the Company s existing NAND Flash memory designs and certain related
technology and the Company s acquisition of a perpetual, paid-up license to use
and modify such designs.  

  The Company and Intel entered into various service
contracts with IMFT under which they provide operational and administrative
support services.  The Company and Intel
generally charge IMFT for costs of providing such services.  

  The Company has determined that IMFT is a variable
interest entity as defined in FASB Interpretation No. 46(R),  Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities,  and that the Company is the primary
beneficiary.  Accordingly, IMFT s
financial results are included in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements of the Company.  All amounts
pertaining to Intel s interests in IMFT are reported as noncontrolling
interest.  

  The Company is obligated to provide certain NAND Flash
memory products to Apple Computer, Inc. ( Apple ) until December 31, 2010,
pursuant to a NAND Flash supply agreement. 
In connection with the obligation, Apple made a prepayment of $250
million to the Company in the second quarter of 2006.  The prepayment is included in other
liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.  

     TECH
Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ( TECH ):      Since 1998, the
Company has participated in TECH, a semiconductor memory manufacturing joint
venture in Singapore among the Company, the Singapore Economic Development
Board ( EDB ), Canon Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Company.  On March 3, 2006, certain shareholders of
TECH contributed approximately $260 million in cash as additional capital to
TECH, of which the Company s contribution was approximately $130 million.  Following the contribution, the Company owned
an approximate 43% interest in TECH.  The
shareholders  agreement for the TECH joint venture expires in 2011. 

Effective March 3, 2006, the Company entered into an
agreement with EDB whereby EDB granted the Company a call option to purchase
from EDB, and the Company granted EDB a put option to sell to the Company,
EDB s shares of TECH common stock (approximately 30% as of August 31, 2006)
(collectively, the  TECH Options ).  The
Company s option to purchase EDB s shares in TECH is exercisable at any time
prior to October 1, 2009.  EDB s option
to put its shares in TECH to the Company is exercisable from March 3, 2008,
until October 1, 2010.  The Company has
determined that TECH is a variable interest entity, and as a result of the put
option agreement noted above, the Company concluded it is the primary
beneficiary of TECH as defined by FIN 46(R) and therefore began consolidating
TECH s financial results, which are included in the Company s Memory segment,
as of the beginning of the Company s third quarter of 2006.  

  Upon consolidation of TECH as of March 3, 2006, the
Company s basis of $134 million and the fair value of noncontrolling interests
in TECH of $627 million were allocated to the assets and liabilities of TECH
based on their estimated fair values.  In
connection with the consolidation of TECH, the Company recorded total assets of
$990 million (net of eliminated intercompany balances and the Company s
contribution to TECH aggregating $204 million), including cash of $319 million,
inventories of $104 million and property, plant and equipment of $562 million,
and total liabilities of $411 (net of $24 million of eliminated intercompany
balances), including accounts payable and accrued expenses of $69 million and
debt and capital lease obligations totaling $339 million.  

  The option granted by the Company to EDB to sell to
the Company EDB s shares in TECH is being accounted for as if the shares are
mandatorily redeemable by the Company. 
The initial carrying value of the noncontrolling interest in TECH
attributable to EDB of $287 million is being amortized to its estimated
redemption value ($260 million as of August 31, 2006) through March 3, 2008,
the date EDB s option becomes exercisable. 
The amortization is recognized as other non-operating income in the
accompanying consolidated statement of operations and amounted to $8 million
for 2006.  

57     

TECH s semiconductor manufacturing uses the Company s
product and process technology.  Subject
to specific terms and conditions, the Company has agreed to purchase all of the
products manufactured by TECH.  The
Company generally purchases semiconductor memory products from TECH at prices
determined quarterly, based on a discount from average selling prices realized
by the Company for the preceding quarter. 
The Company performs assembly and test services on product manufactured
by TECH.  The Company also provides
certain technology, engineering and training to support TECH.  Through the second quarter of 2006, prior to
the consolidation of TECH, all of these transactions with TECH were recognized
as part of the net cost of products purchased from TECH.  The net cost of products purchased from TECH
amounted to $287 million for the first six months of 2006.  The net cost of products purchased from TECH
amounted to $652 million and $454 million for 2005 and 2004, respectively.  Amortization expense resulting from the TECH
supply arrangement, included in the cost of products purchased from TECH, was
$6 million for the first six months of 2006 and $12 million for 2005 and
2004.  In connection with the
consolidation of TECH, amortization of the TECH supply arrangement was
discontinued as of the beginning of the third quarter of 2006.  

     MP Mask Technology Center, LLC ( MP Mask ):    
 In the third
quarter of 2006, the Company formed a joint venture, MP Mask, with Photronics,
Inc. ( Photronics ) to produce photomasks for leading-edge and advanced next
generation semiconductors.  The Company
contributed its then existing reticle manufacturing operation to the
venture.  In exchange for a 49.99%
interest in MP Mask, Photronics paid $48 million cash and $15 million in notes
due over two years to the Company.  In
connection with the joint venture, the Company received $72 million in exchange
for entering into a license agreement with Photronics, which will be recognized
over the term of the 10-year agreement. 
The Company and Photronics also entered into supply arrangements wherein
the Company is expected to purchase a substantial majority of the reticles
produced by MP Mask.  The financial
results of MP Mask are included in the consolidated financial results of the
Company.  

Segment
Information     

  The Company s reportable segments are Memory and
Imaging. The Memory segment s primary products are DRAM and NAND Flash and the
Imaging segment s primary product is CMOS image sensors.  Segment information reported below is
consistent with how it is reviewed and evaluated by the Company s chief
operating decision maker and is based on the nature of the Company s operations
and products offered to customers.  The
Company does not identify or report depreciation and amortization, capital
expenditures or assets by segment.  The
information below represents the Company s reportable segments.  

58     

Geographic
Information     

  Geographic net
sales based on customer location were as follows:  

Net property,
plant and equipment by geographic area was as follows:  

59     

Quarterly Financial
Information (Unaudited)   

  (Amounts in millions except per share amounts)  

60  

Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

  To the Board of Directors
and Shareholders 
of Micron Technology, Inc.  

  We have completed
integrated audits of Micron Technology, Inc. s 2006 and 2005  consolidated financial statements and
of its internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006 and an
audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States).  Our opinions, based on our
audits, are presented below. 

    Consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule    

  In our opinion,
the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index
appearing under Item 8 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Micron Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries at August 31, 2006 and
September 1, 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended August 31, 2006 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedule listed in the accompanying index appearing under Item 8 presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read
in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.  These financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our
audits.  We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States).  Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit of financial
statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. 
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  As discussed in
the Significant Accounting Policies note to the consolidated financial
statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for share-based
compensation in the year ended August 31, 2006.  

    Internal control over financial reporting    

  Also, in our
opinion, management s assessment, included in Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the Company
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of August 31,
2006 based on criteria established in  Internal Control -
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all
material respects, based on those criteria. 
Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of August 31,
2006, based on criteria established in  Internal Control -
Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO.  The Company s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting.  Our responsibility is to
express opinions on management s assessment and on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit of internal control
over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects.  An audit of internal control over financial
reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such
other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinions.  

  A company s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. 
A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

61     

Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements.  Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  As described in Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A,
management has excluded TECH Semiconductor Pte. Ltd. ( TECH ) and Lexar Media,
Inc. ( Lexar ) from its assessment of internal control over financial reporting
as of August 31, 2006.  The Company began
consolidating TECH on March 3, 2006, and acquired Lexar on June 21, 2006.  Net of eliminated intercompany balances and
transactions, TECH s total assets and revenues represented 8% and 0%,
respectively, of the Company consolidated assets and revenues as of and for the
year ended August 31, 2006.  Net of
eliminated intercompany balances and transactions, Lexar s total assets and
revenues represented 10% and less than 1%, respectively, of the Company s
consolidated assets and revenues as of and for the year ended August 31, 2006.  

  /s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
San Jose, California 
November 6, 2006  

62  

Item 9.                                   Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure       

  None.  

    Item 9A.                          Controls and
Procedures       

  An evaluation was
carried out under the supervision and with the participation of the Company s
management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial
officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of the end of the period covered
by this report.  Based upon that
evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer
concluded that those disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure
that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it
files or submits under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized
and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission s rules and
forms and (ii) accumulated and communicated to the Company s management,
including the Company s principal executive officer and principal financial
officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.  

  During the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2006, there were no changes in the Company s internal control
over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.  

   Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

  The Company s management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting for the Company. 
Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.  The Company s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that i) pertain
to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
Company; and iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s
assets that could have a material effect on the Company s financial statements.  

  Internal control
over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance regarding the
prevention or detection of misstatements because of inherent limitations.  These inherent limitations are known by
management and considered in the design of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting which reduce, though not eliminate, this risk.  

  Management
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting based on the framework in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of August 31,
2006.  Management s assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
August 31, 2006, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included
in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K.  

  The Company s
evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial
reporting as of August 31, 2006, did not extend to the internal controls of
TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ( TECH ) and Lexar Media, Inc. ( Lexar ).  The Company began consolidating TECH on March
3, 2006, and acquired Lexar on June 21, 2006. 
Net of eliminated intercompany balances and transactions, TECH s total
assets and revenues represented 8% and 0%, respectively, of the Company s
consolidated assets and revenues as of and for the year ended August 31,
2006.  Net of eliminated intercompany
balances and transactions, Lexar s total assets and revenues represented 10%
and less than 1%, respectively, of the Company s consolidated assets and
revenues as of and for the year ended August 31, 2006.  

    Item 9B.            Other Information     

  None.  

63     

PART III     

     Item 10.             Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant       

     Item 11.             Executive
Compensation       

     Item 12.             Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters       

     Item 13.             Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions       

     Item
14.             Principal Accounting Fees and Services       

  Certain information
concerning the registrant s executive officers is included under the caption,  Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant,  in Part I, Item 1 of this
report.  Other information required by
Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 will be contained in the registrant s Proxy
Statement which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within 120 days after August 31, 2006, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

   PART IV     

    Item 15.            Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules       

  The following
documents are filed as part of this report:  

  1.                  Financial
Statement:  See Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements under Item 8. 

  2.                  Certain
Financial Statement Schedules have been omitted since they are either not
required, not applicable or the information is otherwise included. 

  3.                  Exhibits. 

64     

65     

*                       Portions
of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential
treatment filed with the Commission. 

66  

SIGNATURES     

  Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Boise, State of Idaho,
on the 7th day of November 2006.  

Micron Technology, Inc.  

By:  

/s/ W.
  G. Stover, Jr.   

W. G.
  Stover, Jr.,   

Vice President
  of Finance, Chief Financial Officer  

(Principal
  Financial and Accounting Officer)  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  

Signature   

Title   

Date   

/s/
  Steven R. Appleton   

Chairman of the Board,  

November 7, 2006  

(Steven R. Appleton)   

Chief Executive Officer  

and President
  (Principal  

Executive Officer)  

/s/ W.
  G. Stover, Jr.   

Vice President of Finance,  

November 7, 2006  

(W. G. Stover, Jr.)   

Chief Financial Officer  

(Principal Financial
  and  

Accounting Officer)  

/s/
  Teruaki Aoki   

Director  

November 7, 2006  

(Teruaki Aoki)   

/s/
  James W. Bagley   

Director  

November 7, 2006  

(James W. Bagley)   

/s/
  Mercedes Johnson   

Director  

November 7, 2006  

(Mercedes Johnson)   

/s/
  Robert A. Lothrop   

Director  

November 7 2006  

(Robert A. Lothrop)   

/s/
  Lawrence N. Mondry   

Director  

November 7, 2006  

(Lawrence N. Mondry)   

/s/
  Gordon C. Smith   

Director  

November 7, 2006  

(Gordon C. Smith)   

/s/
  Robert E. Switz   

Director  

November 7, 2006  

(Robert E. Switz)   

/s/
  William P. Weber   

Director  

November 7, 2006  

(William
  P. Weber)   

67  

MICRON TECHNOLOGY,
INC.   
SCHEDULE II 
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
(Amounts in millions)   

The allowance for obsolete inventories excludes any
charges for write-downs of work in process and finished goods inventories to
their estimated market values.  See  Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.   

68  

<EX-21.1>
 2
 a06-20825_2ex21d1.htm
 EX-21

EXHIBIT 21.1   

   MICRON TECHNOLOGY,
INC.   
SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT   

Name   

State (or jurisdiction) 
  in which Organized   

Acclaim Innovations,
  LLC  

Delaware  

Lexar Hong Kong Limited  

Hong
  Kong  

Lexar Media (Europe)
  Limited  

United
  Kingdom  

Lexar Media, Inc.  

Delaware  

Lexar Media
  International Limited  

Ireland  

Lexar Media K.K.  

Japan  

Lexar Media Pty Ltd.  

Australia  

Lexar (Shanghai)
  Electronic Company Limited  

China  

Lexar Singapore Pte.
  Ltd.  

Singapore  

Micron Customs
  Brokerage Services, Inc.  

Idaho  

Micron Europe Limited  

United
  Kingdom  

Also does
  business as Crucial Technology Europe  

Micron Japan, Ltd.  

Japan  

Micron Semiconductor
  Asia Pte. Ltd.  

Singapore  

Also does
  business as Crucial Technology Asia  

Micron Semiconductor
  Canada, Inc.  

Canada  

Micron Semiconductor
  (Deutschland) GmbH  

Germany  

Micron Semiconductor
  France, SAS  

France  

Micron Semiconductor
  Fraxalis Oy  

Finland  

Micron Semiconductor
  GmbH  

Austria  

Micron Semiconductor
  Hungary Kft  

Hungary  

Micron Semiconductor
  India, Inc.  

Idaho  

Micron Semiconductor
  India Private Limited  

India  

Micron Semiconductor
  International, Ltd.  

Cayman
  Islands, B.W.I.  

Micron Semiconductor
  Ireland Limited  

Ireland  

Micron Semiconductor
  Korea Co., Ltd.  

South
  Korea  

Micron Semiconductor Products,
  Inc.  

Idaho  

Also does
  business as Crucial Technology  

Micron Semiconductor
  (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.  

China  

Micron Semiconductor
  Sweden AB (Aktiebolaget Grundstenen 108204)  

Sweden  

Micron Semiconductor
  Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.  

China  

Micron Semiconductor
  (Xiamen) Co., Ltd.  

China  

Micron Semiconductor
  (Xi an) Co., Ltd.  

China  

Micron Technology Asia
  Pacific, Inc.  

Idaho  

Micron Technology
  Italia S.r.l.  

Italy  

Micron Technology
  Puerto Rico, Inc.  

Puerto
  Rico  

Micron Technology Services,
  Inc.  

Idaho  

Micron Technology Texas, LLC  

Idaho  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 a06-20825_2ex23d1.htm
 EX-23

EXHIBIT
23.1   

   Consent
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

  We hereby consent
to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Forms S-3
(File Nos. 333-33050, 333-71620, 333-104894) and Forms S-8 (File Nos. 33-27078,
33-57887, 33-65050, 333-07283, 333-17073, 333-50353, 333-65449, 333-71249,
333-82549, 333-99271, 333-102545, 333-103341, 333-111170, 333-120620,
333-133667, 333-135459) of Micron Technology, Inc. of our report dated November
6, 2006 relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule,
management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
which appears in this Form 10-K.  

  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

  San Jose, California  

  November 6, 2006  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 a06-20825_2ex31d1.htm
 EX-31

EXHIBIT
31.1   

   RULE
13a-14(a) CERTIFICATION OF 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

  I, Steven R. Appleton,
certify that:  

  1.                  I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Micron Technology, Inc.; 

  2.                  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                  The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have: 

  a.                  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  b.                 Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

  c.                  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this  report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

  d.                 Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                  The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  a.                  All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

  b.                 Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: November 7, 2006  

/s/ Steven R. Appleton  

Steven R. Appleton  

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 a06-20825_2ex31d2.htm
 EX-31

EXHIBIT
31.2   

RULE
13a-14(a) CERTIFICATION OF 
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

  I, W. G. Stover, Jr., certify that:  

  1.                  I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Micron Technology, Inc.; 

  2.                  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                  The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have: 

  a.                  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  b.                 Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

  c.                  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this  report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

  d.                 Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                  The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  a.                  All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

  b.                 Any fraud, whether
or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: November 7, 2006 

/s/ W. G. Stover, Jr.   

W. G. Stover, Jr.  

Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial
  Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 a06-20825_2ex32d1.htm
 EX-32

EXHIBIT
32.1   

   CERTIFICATION OF
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   
PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. 1350   

  I, Steven R. Appleton,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Annual Report of Micron Technology, Inc.
on Form 10-K for the period ended August 31, 2006, fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
and that information contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of Micron Technology, Inc.  

Date: November 7, 2006   

By:  

/s/ Steven R. Appleton   

Steven R. Appleton  

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 7
 a06-20825_2ex32d2.htm
 EX-32

EXHIBIT
32.2   

   CERTIFICATION OF
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   
PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. 1350   

  I, W. G. Stover, Jr.,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Annual Report of Micron Technology, Inc.
on Form 10-K for the period ended August 31, 2006, fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
and that information contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of Micron Technology, Inc.  

Date: November 7, 2006 

By:  

/s/ W. G. Stover, Jr.   

W. G. Stover, Jr.  

Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial
  Officer  

</EX-32.2>

