<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061206_10-K_edgar_data_310522_0000950133-06-005230_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>6468728</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1540774</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>23578</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3572464</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>197</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950133-06-005230.hdr.sgml : 20061206
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061206170525
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950133-06-005230
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20041231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061206
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061206

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION FANNIE MAE
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000310522
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES [6111]
		IRS NUMBER:				520883107
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-50231
		FILM NUMBER:		061260618

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3900 WISCONSIN AVE N.W.
		CITY:			WASHINGTON
		STATE:			DC
		ZIP:			20016
		BUSINESS PHONE:		202-752-7000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3900 WISCONSIN AVE N.W.
		CITY:			WASHINGTON
		STATE:			DC
		ZIP:			20016

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19950110

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 ApEP2MNxTbVCZxUHRNdgGM7gUXq/BtR4M3VAhtq9ku1jFHfVnh4jBBnNxP4wAbnW
 3zNpj6ltAgtyFJoEzAqVyA==

 0000950133-06-005230.txt : 20061206

10-K
 1
 w26699e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OR 15(d)  

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934  

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 

Commission File No.: 0-50231 

Federal National Mortgage
    Association  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Fannie Mae 

Federally chartered
    corporation  

52-0883107  

(State or other jurisdiction
    of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

3900 Wisconsin Avenue, 
    NW Washington, DC 
        (Address of principal
    executive offices)  

20016 
        (Zip
    Code)   

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 

(202) 752-7000  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

None 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

Common Stock, without par value 

(Title of class)  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.    o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer         Accelerated
    filer  o      Non-accelerated
    filer  o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes  o      No   

The aggregate market value of the common stock held by
    non-affiliates of the registrant computed by reference to the
    price at which the common stock was last sold on June 30,
    2006 (the last business day of the registrant s most
    recently completed second fiscal quarter) was approximately
    $46,790 million.

As of October 31, 2006, there were 975,052,687 shares
    of common stock of the registrant outstanding.

Table of Contents   

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

PART I  

1

Item 1.  

Business  

1

Explanatory Note
    about this Report  

1

Overview  

1

Financial
    Restatement, Regulatory Reviews and Other Significant Recent
    Events  

1

Residential
    Mortgage Market Overview  

4

Business
    Segments  

6

Competition  

22

Our Charter and
    Regulation of Our Activities  

23

Employees  

32

Where You Can Find
    Additional Information  

32

Forward-Looking
    Statements  

33

Glossary of Terms
    Used in this Report  

35

Item 1A.  

Risk
    Factors  

39

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff
    Comments  

50

Item 2.  

Properties  

50

Item 3.  

Legal
    Proceedings  

50

Restatement-Related
    Matters  

51

Restatement-Related
    Investigations by U.S. Attorney s Office, OFHEO and
    the SEC  

53

Other Legal
    Proceedings  

54

Item 4.  

Submission of
    Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

56

PART II  

57

Item 5.  

Market for
    Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

57

Item 6.  

Selected Financial
    Data  

62

Item 7.  

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  

65

Organization of
    MD&A  

65

Executive
    Summary  

65

Restatement  

71

Critical Accounting
    Policies and Estimates  

95

Consolidated
    Results of Operations  

101

Business Segment
    Results  

119

Supplemental
    Non-GAAP Information Fair Value Balance
    Sheet  

126

Risk
    Management  

132

Liquidity and
    Capital Management  

169

Off-Balance Sheet
    Arrangements  

184

Impact of Future
    Adoption of Accounting Pronouncements  

187

2004 Quarterly
    Review  

190

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

197

Item 8.  

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  

197

Item 9.  

Changes in and
    Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
    Disclosure  

197

i

Table of Contents   

Item 9A.  

Controls and
    Procedures  

198

Evaluation of
    Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

198

Management s
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

199

Remediation
    Activities and Changes in Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting  

204

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

211

Item 9B.  

Other
    Information  

213

PART III  

213

Item 10.  

Directors and
    Executive Officers of the Registrant  

213

Item 11.  

Executive
    Compensation  

220

Item 12.  

Security Ownership
    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
    Stockholder Matters  

233

Item 13.  

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions  

237

Item 14.  

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services  

239

PART IV  

241

Item 15.  

Exhibits, Financial
    Statement Schedules  

241

Index to
    Exhibits  

E-1

ii

Table of Contents   

MD&A
    TABLE REFERENCE  

iii

Table of Contents   

iv

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.    

Business  

EXPLANATORY
    NOTE ABOUT THIS REPORT  

This annual report is our first periodic report covering periods
    after June 30, 2004. Because of the delay in our periodic
    reporting and the changes that have occurred in our business
    since our last periodic filing, where appropriate, the
    information contained in this report reflects current
    information about our business.

This report contains our consolidated financial statements and
    related notes for the year ended December 31, 2004, as well
    as a restatement of our previously issued consolidated financial
    statements and related notes for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, and for the quarters ended
    June 30, 2004 and March 31, 2004. All restatement
    adjustments relating to periods prior to January 1, 2002
    have been presented as adjustments to retained earnings as of
    December 31, 2001, which is available in
     Item 6 Selected Financial Data.  In light
    of the substantial time, effort and expense incurred since
    December 2004 to complete the restatement of our consolidated
    financial statements for 2003 and 2002, we have determined that
    extensive additional efforts would be required to restate all
    2001 and 2000 financial data. In particular, significant
    complexities of accounting standards, turnover of relevant
    personnel, and limitations of systems and data all limit our
    ability to reconstruct additional financial information for 2001
    and 2000.

OVERVIEW  

Fannie Mae s activities enhance the liquidity and stability
    of the mortgage market. These activities include providing funds
    to mortgage lenders through our purchases of mortgage assets,
    and issuing and guaranteeing mortgage-related securities that
    facilitate the flow of additional funds into the mortgage
    market. We also make other investments that increase the supply
    of affordable rental housing. Our activities contribute to
    making housing in the United States more affordable and more
    available to low-, moderate- and middle-income Americans.

We are a government-sponsored enterprise ( GSE )
    chartered by the U.S. Congress under the name  Federal
    National Mortgage Association  and are aligned with
    national policies to support expanded access to housing and
    increased opportunities for homeownership. We are subject to
    government oversight and regulation. Our regulators include the
    Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight
    ( OFHEO ), the Department of Housing and Urban
    Development ( HUD ), the Securities and Exchange
    Commission ( SEC ) and the Department of the Treasury.

While we are a Congressionally-chartered enterprise, the
    U.S. government does not guarantee, directly or indirectly,
    our securities or other obligations. We are a stockholder-owned
    corporation, and our business is self-sustaining and funded
    exclusively with private capital. Our common stock is listed on
    the New York Stock Exchange and traded under the symbol
     FNM.  Our debt securities are actively traded in the
     over-the-counter 
    market.

FINANCIAL
    RESTATEMENT, REGULATORY REVIEWS AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT RECENT
    EVENTS  

We have undertaken comprehensive reviews of our accounting
    policies and procedures, financial reporting, internal controls,
    corporate governance and the structure of our management team
    and Board of Directors. We commenced these reviews in 2004
    following our Board of Directors  receipt of an interim
    report from OFHEO on its findings in a special examination.
    Since then, we have made extensive organizational and
    operational changes, improved our internal controls, and been
    subject to additional reviews and investigations. The following
    are summary descriptions of these events.

OFHEO Special Examination and Interim
    Report.   In July 2003, OFHEO notified us that it
    intended to conduct a special examination of our accounting
    policies and internal controls, as well as other areas of
    inquiry. OFHEO began its special examination in November 2003
    and delivered an interim report of its findings to our Board of
    Directors in September 2004. In this interim report, and as
    further outlined in its May 2006 final report described below,
    OFHEO identified areas within our accounting that it determined
    did not

1

Table of Contents   

conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
    ( GAAP ) and specified weaknesses in our internal
    controls, compensation practices and corporate governance. We
    entered into agreements with OFHEO in September 2004 and March
    2005 in which we agreed to take specified actions with respect
    to our accounting practices, capital levels and activities,
    organization and staffing, corporate governance, internal
    controls, compensation practices and other matters. See also
     OFHEO Final Report and Settlement  below.

Special Review Committee and Paul Weiss Investigation and
    Report.   After receiving OFHEO s interim
    report in September 2004, our Board of Directors established a
    Special Review Committee of independent directors to review
    OFHEO s findings and oversee an independent investigation
    of issues raised in the report. The Special Review Committee
    engaged former Senator Warren B. Rudman and the law firm of
    Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP
    ( Paul Weiss ) to conduct the investigation and to
    prepare a detailed report of its findings and conclusions. Paul
    Weiss obtained independent professional accounting assistance
    and, in February 2006, reported its findings that our accounting
    practices in many areas were not consistent with GAAP, and
    aspects of our accounting were designed to show stable earnings
    growth and achieve forecasted earnings. Paul Weiss also
    concluded that the accounting systems we previously utilized
    were inadequate.

SEC Review of Our Accounting
    Practices.   Following the receipt of OFHEO s
    interim report, we requested that the SEC s Office of the
    Chief Accountant review our accounting practices with respect to
    two areas identified in OFHEO s interim
    findings   hedge accounting and the amortization of
    purchase premiums and discounts on securities and loans, as well
    as other deferred charges   to determine whether our
    practices complied with the applicable GAAP requirements. In
    December 2004, the SEC s Office of the Chief Accountant
    advised us that, from 2001 to mid-2004, our accounting practices
    with respect to these two areas did not comply in material
    respects with GAAP requirements. Accordingly, the Office of the
    Chief Accountant advised us to (1) restate our financial
    statements filed with the SEC to eliminate the use of hedge
    accounting and (2) evaluate our accounting for the
    amortization of premiums and discounts, and restate our
    financial statements filed with the SEC if the amounts required
    for correction were material. The SEC s Office of the Chief
    Accountant also advised us to reevaluate the GAAP and non-GAAP
    information that we previously provided to investors,
    particularly in view of the decision that hedge accounting was
    not appropriate.

Accounting-Related Changes and Financial
    Restatement.   After receiving OFHEO s interim
    findings and the SEC s determination, the Audit Committee
    of our Board of Directors concluded in December 2004 that our
    previously filed interim and audited consolidated financial
    statements should not be relied upon since they were prepared
    applying accounting practices that did not comply with GAAP and,
    consequently, we would restate our consolidated financial
    statements. As part of the restatement, we have undertaken a
    comprehensive review of, and made numerous corrections to, our
    accounting policies and procedures as well as the information
    systems used to produce our accounting records and financial
    reports. The consolidated financial statements for the years
    ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 included in this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    include restatement adjustments that we have categorized into
    the following seven areas: our accounting for debt and
    derivatives; our accounting for commitments; our accounting for
    investments in securities; our accounting for MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; our accounting for financial
    guaranties and master servicing; our accounting for amortization
    of cost basis adjustments; and other adjustments.

The overall impact of our restatement was a total reduction in
    retained earnings of $6.3 billion through June 30,
    2004. This amount includes:

We previously estimated that errors in accounting for derivative
    instruments, including mortgage commitments, would result in a
    total of $10.8 billion in after-tax cumulative losses
    through December 31, 2004. In a subsequent
     12b-25 
    filing in August 2006, we confirmed our estimate of after-tax
    cumulative losses on

2

Table of Contents   

derivatives of $8.4 billion, but disclosed that our
    previous estimate of $2.4 billion in after-tax cumulative
    losses on mortgage commitments would be significantly less. We
    did not provide estimates of the effects on net income or
    retained earnings of any other accounting errors, nor did we
    provide any estimates of the effects of our restatement on total
    assets, total liabilities or stockholders  equity. As
    reflected in the results we are reporting in this Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K, 
    our retained earnings as of December 31, 2004 includes
    after-tax cumulative losses on derivatives of $8.4 billion
    and after-tax cumulative net gains on derivative mortgage
    commitments of $535 million, net of related amortization,
    for a total after-tax cumulative impact as of December 31,
    2004 of approximately $7.9 billion related to these two
    restatement items.  For more information regarding the
    restatement, see  Item 7 Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations ( MD ) Restatement  and
     Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 1, Restatement of Previously Issued
    Financial Statements. 

Changes to Management and Board of
    Directors.   Since the announcement of our decision
    to restate in December 2004, we have made extensive changes in
    our senior management team and our Board of Directors. In
    December 2004, Franklin D. Raines, who had served as Chairman of
    the Board and our Chief Executive Officer, left his position.
    Our Board of Directors appointed Daniel H. Mudd as our new Chief
    Executive Officer. In addition, we have replaced all of our
    senior financial and accounting officers who served during the
    period in which we issued the consolidated financial statements
    that have been restated, including our Chief Financial Officer
    and Controller, and we hired a new General Counsel, Chief Risk
    Officer, Chief Audit Executive and Chief Compliance Officer. Our
    Board of Directors also appointed Stephen B. Ashley as
    non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and has added
    six new directors to the Board since our receipt of OFHEO s
    interim report in September 2004. In addition to these
    appointments and new additions to our Board of Directors and
    management team, we have reorganized our internal operations and
    made changes in the committee structure of our Board of
    Directors.

Replacement of Independent Auditors.   In
    December 2004, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors
    dismissed KPMG LLP ( KPMG ) as our independent
    registered public accounting firm. KPMG had served as our
    independent auditor since 1969 and had audited the previously
    issued financial statements that we have restated. The Audit
    Committee engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP
    ( Deloitte & Touche ) to serve as our
    independent registered public accounting firm effective January
    2005. The consolidated financial statements included in this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    have been audited by Deloitte & Touche.

Capital Restoration Plan and 30% Capital Surplus
    Requirement.   In December 2004, OFHEO determined
    that we were significantly undercapitalized as of
    September 30, 2004. We prepared a capital restoration plan
    to comply with OFHEO s directive that we achieve a 30%
    surplus over our statutory minimum capital requirement by
    September 30, 2005. In accordance with our plan, we met
    this capital requirement principally by issuing
    $5.0 billion in non-cumulative preferred stock,
    significantly decreasing the size of our mortgage investment
    portfolio, accumulating retained earnings and reducing our
    quarterly common stock dividend from $0.52 per share to
    $0.26 per share. Pursuant to our May 2006 consent order
    with OFHEO (described below), this requirement to maintain a 30%
    capital surplus remains in effect and may be modified or
    terminated only at OFHEO s discretion. For additional
    information on our capital requirements, see
     Item 7 MD Liquidity and Capital
    Management Capital Management Capital Adequacy
    Requirements. 

OFHEO Final Report and Settlement.   On
    May 23, 2006, OFHEO issued a final report on its special
    examination. OFHEO s final report concluded that, during
    the period covered by the report (1998 to mid-2004), a large
    number of our accounting policies and practices did not comply
    with GAAP and we had serious problems in our internal controls,
    financial reporting and corporate governance. On May 23,
    2006, we agreed to OFHEO s issuance of a consent order that
    resolved open matters relating to their investigation of us.
    Under the consent order, we neither admitted nor denied any
    wrongdoing and agreed to make changes and take actions in
    specified areas, including our accounting practices, capital
    levels and activities, corporate governance, Board of Directors,
    internal controls, public disclosures, regulatory reporting,
    personnel and compensation practices. In addition, as part of
    this consent order and our settlement with the SEC discussed
    below, we have paid a $400 million civil penalty, with
    $50 million paid to the U.S. Treasury and
    $350 million paid to the SEC for distribution to
    stockholders pursuant to the Fair Funds for Investors provision
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

3

Table of Contents   

Limitation on the Size of Our Mortgage
    Portfolio.   As part of OFHEO s May 2006
    consent order, we agreed not to increase the size of our net
    mortgage portfolio above the $727.75 billion amount of net
    mortgage assets held as of December 31, 2005, except in
    limited circumstances at OFHEO s discretion. Our  net
    mortgage assets  refers to the unpaid principal balance of
    our mortgage assets, net of GAAP adjustments. The consent order
    permitted us to propose increases in the size of our mortgage
    portfolio in a business plan submitted to OFHEO by July 2006. We
    may also propose to OFHEO increases in the size of our portfolio
    to respond to disruptions in the mortgage markets. The business
    plan we submitted to OFHEO in July 2006 did not request an
    increase in the current limitation on the size of our mortgage
    portfolio during 2006. We anticipate submitting an updated
    business plan to OFHEO in early 2007 that may include a request
    for modest growth in our mortgage portfolio. Until the Director
    of OFHEO has determined that modification or expiration of the
    limitation is appropriate, we will remain subject to this
    limitation on portfolio growth.

SEC Investigation and Settlement.   The SEC
    initiated an investigation of our accounting practices and, in
    May 2006, without admitting or denying the SEC s
    allegations, we consented to the entry of a final judgment which
    resolved all of the SEC s claims against us in its civil
    proceeding. The judgment permanently restrains and enjoins us
    from future violations of specified provisions of the federal
    securities laws. In addition, as discussed under  OFHEO
    Final Report and Settlement  above, as part of our
    settlements with OFHEO and the SEC, we have paid a
    $400 million civil penalty, with $50 million paid to
    the U.S. Treasury and $350 million paid to the SEC for
    distribution to stockholders pursuant to the Fair Funds for
    Investors provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Investigation by the U.S. Attorney s
    Office.   In October 2004, the
    U.S. Attorney s Office for the District of Columbia
    notified us that it was investigating our past accounting
    practices. In August 2006, the U.S. Attorney s Office
    advised us that it had discontinued its investigation and would
    not be filing any charges against us.

Stockholder Lawsuits and Other Litigation.   A
    number of lawsuits related to our accounting practices prior to
    December 2004 are currently pending against us and certain of
    our current and former officers and directors. For more
    information on these lawsuits, see  Item 3 Legal
    Proceedings. 

Impairment Determination.   On December 6,
    2006, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors reviewed the
    conclusion of our Chief Financial Officer and our Controller
    that we are required under GAAP to take the impairment charges
    described in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the periods presented in this report and, following
    discussion with our independent registered public accounting
    firm, the Audit Committee affirmed that material impairments
    have occurred. Additional information relating to the impairment
    charges, including the amounts of the impairment charges and our
    estimates of the amounts of the impairment charges that we
    expect to result in future cash expenditures, are discussed in
     Item 7 MD Restatement Summary of
    Restatement Adjustments. 

RESIDENTIAL
    MORTGAGE MARKET OVERVIEW  

Residential
    Mortgage Debt Outstanding  

Our business operates within the U.S. residential mortgage
    market. Because we support activity in the U.S. residential
    mortgage market, we consider the amount of U.S. residential
    mortgage debt outstanding to be the best measure of the size of
    our overall market. As of June 30, 2006, the latest date
    for which information was available, the amount of
    U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding was estimated by
    the Federal Reserve to be approximately $10.5 trillion. Our book
    of business, which includes mortgage assets we hold in our
    mortgage portfolio and our Fannie Mae mortgage-backed securities
    held by third parties, was $2.4 trillion as of June 30,
    2006, or nearly 23% of total U.S. residential mortgage debt
    outstanding.  Fannie Mae mortgage-backed securities 
    or  Fannie Mae MBS  generally refers to those
    mortgage-related securities that we issue and with respect to
    which we guarantee to the related trusts that we will supplement
    mortgage loan collections as required to permit timely payment
    of principal and interest due on these Fannie Mae MBS. We also
    issue some forms of mortgage-related securities for which we do
    not provide this guaranty.

The mortgage market has experienced strong long-term growth.
    According to Federal Reserve estimates, total
    U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding has increased
    each year from 1945 to 2005. Growth in U.S.

4

Table of Contents   

residential mortgage debt outstanding averaged 10.6% per
    year over that period, which is faster than the 6.9% average
    growth in the U.S. economy over the same period, as
    measured by nominal gross domestic product. Growth in
    U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding was particularly
    strong during 2001 through 2005. Total U.S. residential
    mortgage debt outstanding grew at an estimated annual rate of
    almost 13% in 2002 and 2003, approximately 15% in 2004 and
    approximately 14% in 2005.

Homeownership rates, home price appreciation and certain
    macroeconomic factors such as interest rates are large drivers
    of growth in U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding.
    Growth in U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding in
    recent years has been driven primarily by record home sales,
    strong home price appreciation and historically low interest
    rates. Also contributing to growth in U.S. residential
    mortgage debt outstanding in recent years was the increased use
    of mortgage debt financing by homeowners and demographic trends
    that contributed to increased household formation and higher
    homeownership rates. Growth in U.S. residential mortgage
    debt outstanding has moderated in 2006 in response to slower
    home price growth, a sharp drop-off in home sales and declining
    refinance activity. While total U.S. residential mortgage
    debt outstanding as of June 30, 2006 was 12.3% higher than
    year-ago levels, the annualized growth rate in the second
    quarter of 2006 slowed to 9.6%. We expect that growth in total
    U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding will continue at
    a slower pace in 2007, as the housing market continues to cool
    and home price gains moderate further or possibly decline
    modestly. We believe that the continuation of positive
    demographic trends, such as stable household formation rates,
    will help mitigate this slowdown in the growth in residential
    mortgage debt outstanding, but these trends are unlikely to
    completely offset the slowdown in the short- to medium-term.

Over the past 30 years, home values (as measured by the
    OFHEO House Price Index) and income (as measured by per capita
    personal income) have both risen at around a 6% annualized rate.
    During 2001 through 2005, however, this comparability between
    home values and income eroded, with income growth averaging
    approximately 4.1% and home price appreciation averaging over
    9%. Moreover, home price appreciation was especially rapid in
    2004 and 2005, with rates of home price appreciation of
    approximately 11% in 2004 and 13% in 2005 on a national basis
    (with some regional variations). This period of extraordinary
    home price appreciation appears to be ending. According to the
    OFHEO House Price Index, home prices increased at a 3.45%
    annualized rate in the third quarter of 2006, which was the
    slowest pace of home price appreciation since 1998. We believe a
    modest decline in national home prices in 2007 is possible.

The amount of residential mortgage debt available for us to
    purchase or securitize and the mix of available loan products
    are affected by several factors, including the volume of
    single-family mortgages within the loan limits imposed under our
    charter, consumer preferences for different types of mortgages,
    and the purchase and securitization activity of other financial
    institutions. See  Item 1A Risk Factors  for
    a description of the risks associated with the recent slowdown
    in home price appreciation, as well as competitive factors
    affecting our business.

Our Role
    in the Secondary Mortgage Market  

The mortgage market comprises a major portion of the domestic
    capital markets and provides a vital source of financing for the
    large housing segment of the economy, as well as one of the most
    important means for Americans to achieve their homeownership
    objectives. The U.S. Congress chartered Fannie Mae and
    certain other GSEs to help ensure stability and liquidity within
    the secondary mortgage market. Our activities are especially
    valuable when economic or financial market conditions constrain
    the flow of funds for mortgage lending. In addition, we believe
    our activities and those of other GSEs help lower the costs of
    borrowing in the mortgage market, which makes housing more
    affordable and increases homeownership, especially for low- to
    moderate-income families. We believe our activities also
    increase the supply of affordable rental housing.

Our principal customers are lenders that operate within the
    primary mortgage market by originating mortgage loans for
    homebuyers and current homeowners refinancing their existing
    mortgage loans. Our customers include mortgage banking
    companies, savings and loan associations, savings banks,
    commercial banks, credit unions, community banks, and state and
    local housing finance agencies. Lenders originating mortgages in
    the primary market often sell them in the secondary mortgage
    market in the form of loans or in the form of mortgage-related
    securities.

5

Table of Contents   

We operate in the secondary mortgage market where mortgages are
    bought and sold. We securitize mortgage loans originated by
    lenders in the primary market into Fannie Mae MBS, which can
    then be readily bought and sold in the secondary mortgage
    market. We also participate in the secondary mortgage market by
    purchasing mortgage loans (often referred to as  whole
    loans ) and mortgage-related securities, including Fannie
    Mae MBS, for our mortgage portfolio. By delivering loans to us
    in exchange for Fannie Mae MBS, lenders gain the advantage of
    holding a highly liquid instrument and the flexibility to
    determine under what conditions they will hold or sell the MBS.
    By selling loans to us, lenders replenish their funds and,
    consequently, are able to make additional loans. Pursuant to our
    charter, we do not lend money directly to consumers in the
    primary mortgage market.

BUSINESS
    SEGMENTS  

We operate an integrated business that contributes to providing
    liquidity to the mortgage market and increasing the availability
    and affordability of housing in the United States. We are
    organized in three complementary business segments:

Our  Single-Family Credit Guaranty  business
    ( Single-Family ) works with our lender customers to
    securitize single-family mortgage loans into Fannie Mae MBS and
    to facilitate the purchase of single-family mortgage loans for
    our mortgage portfolio. Our Single-Family business has
    responsibility for managing our credit risk exposure relating to
    the single-family Fannie Mae MBS held by third parties (such as
    lenders, depositories and global investors), as well as the
    single-family mortgage loans and single-family Fannie Mae MBS
    held in our mortgage portfolio. Our Single-Family business also
    has responsibility for pricing the credit risk of the
    single-family mortgage loans we purchase for our mortgage
    portfolio. Revenues in the segment are derived primarily from
    the guaranty fees the segment receives as compensation for
    assuming the credit risk on the mortgage loans underlying
    single-family Fannie Mae MBS and on the single-family mortgage
    loans held in our portfolio.

Our  Housing and Community Development  business
    ( HCD ) helps to expand the supply of affordable and
    market-rate rental housing in the United States by working with
    our lender customers to securitize multifamily mortgage loans
    into Fannie Mae MBS and to facilitate the purchase of
    multifamily mortgage loans for our mortgage portfolio. Our HCD
    business also helps to expand the supply of affordable housing
    by making investments in rental and for-sale housing projects,
    including investments in rental housing that qualify for federal
    low-income housing tax credits. Our HCD business has
    responsibility for managing our credit risk exposure relating to
    the multifamily Fannie Mae MBS held by third parties, as well as
    the multifamily mortgage loans and multifamily Fannie Mae MBS
    held in our mortgage portfolio. Revenues in the segment are
    derived from a variety of sources, including the guaranty fees
    the segment receives as compensation for assuming the credit
    risk on the mortgage loans underlying multifamily Fannie Mae MBS
    and on the multifamily mortgage loans held in our portfolio,
    transaction fees associated with the multifamily business and
    bond credit enhancement fees. In addition, HCD s
    investments in housing projects eligible for the low-income
    housing tax credit and other investments generate both tax
    credits and net operating losses that reduce our federal income
    tax liability.

Our  Capital Markets  group manages our investment activity
    in mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities, and has
    responsibility for managing our assets and liabilities and our
    liquidity and capital positions. Through the issuance of debt
    securities in the capital markets, our Capital Markets group
    attracts capital from investors globally to finance housing in
    the United States. In addition, our Capital Markets group
    increases the liquidity of the mortgage market by maintaining a
    constant, reliable presence as an active investor in mortgage
    assets. Our Capital Markets group has responsibility for
    managing our interest rate risk. Our Capital Markets group
    generates income primarily from the difference, or spread,
    between the yield on the mortgage assets we own and the cost of
    the debt we issue in the global capital markets to fund these
    assets.

6

Table of Contents   

Although we operate our business through three separate business
    segments, there are important interrelationships among the
    functions of these three segments. For example:

Mortgage Acquisition.   As noted above, our
    Single-Family and HCD business segments work with our lender
    customers to securitize mortgage loans into Fannie Mae MBS and
    to facilitate the purchase of mortgage loans for our mortgage
    portfolio. Accordingly, although the Single-Family and HCD
    businesses principally manage the relationships with our lender
    customers, our Capital Markets group works closely with
    Single-Family and HCD in making mortgage acquisition decisions.
    Our Capital Markets group works directly with our lender
    customers on structured Fannie Mae MBS transactions.

Portfolio Credit Risk Management.   Our
    Single-Family and HCD business segments support our Capital
    Markets group by assuming and managing the credit risk of
    borrowers defaulting on payments of principal and interest on
    the mortgage loans held in our mortgage portfolio or underlying
    Fannie Mae MBS held in our mortgage portfolio. Our Single-Family
    business also prices the credit risk of the single-family
    mortgage loans purchased by our Capital Markets group for our
    mortgage portfolio.

Securitization Activities.   All three of our
    business segments engage in securitization activities. Our
    Single-Family business issues our single-class, single-family
    Fannie Mae MBS. These securities are principally created through
    lender swap transactions and constitute the substantial majority
    of our Fannie Mae MBS issues. The Multifamily Group within our
    HCD business segment issues our single-class, multifamily Fannie
    Mae MBS that are principally created through lender swap
    transactions. Our Capital Markets group creates Fannie Mae MBS
    using mortgage loans that we hold in our mortgage portfolio and
    also issues structured Fannie Mae MBS.

Liquidity Support.   The Capital Markets group
    supports the liquidity of single-family and multifamily Fannie
    Mae MBS by holding Fannie Mae MBS in our mortgage portfolio.
    This support of our Fannie Mae MBS helps to maintain the
    competitiveness of our Single-Family and HCD businesses, and
    increases the value of our Fannie Mae MBS.

Mission Support.   All three of our business
    segments contribute to meeting the statutory housing goals
    established by HUD. We meet our housing goals both by purchasing
    mortgage loans for our mortgage portfolio and by securitizing
    mortgage loans into Fannie Mae MBS. Both our Single-Family and
    HCD businesses securitize mortgages that contribute to our
    housing goals. In addition, our Capital Markets group purchases
    mortgages for our mortgage portfolio that contribute to our
    housing goals.

7

Table of Contents   

The table below displays the revenues, net income and total
    assets for each of our business segments for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2004. In our
    previously reported financial statements, we disclosed only two
    business segments, Portfolio Investment (which has since been
    renamed  Capital Markets ) and Credit Guaranty,
    because we aggregated the Single-Family Credit Guaranty and the
    HCD business segments into a single Credit Guaranty business
    segment. As described in  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 15, Segment Reporting,  we
    determined that this previous presentation of our business
    segments did not comply with GAAP.

Business
    Segment Summary Financial Information  

(1)   

Includes interest income, guaranty
    fee income, and fee and other income.

We use various management methodologies to allocate certain
    balance sheet and income statement line items to the responsible
    operating segment. For a description of our allocation
    methodologies, see  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 15, Segment Reporting.  For
    further information on the results and assets of our business
    segments, see  Item 7 MD Business
    Segment Results. 

Single-Family
    Credit Guaranty  

Our Single-Family Credit Guaranty business works with our lender
    customers to securitize single-family mortgage loans into Fannie
    Mae MBS and to facilitate the purchase of single-family mortgage
    loans for our mortgage portfolio. Our Single-Family business
    manages our relationships with over 1,000 lenders from which we
    obtain mortgage loans. These lenders are part of the primary
    mortgage market, where mortgage loans are originated and funds
    are loaned to borrowers. Our lender customers include mortgage
    companies, savings and loan associations, savings banks,
    commercial banks, credit unions, and state and local housing
    finance agencies.

In our Single-Family business, mortgage lenders generally
    deliver mortgage loans to us in exchange for our Fannie Mae MBS.
    In a typical MBS transaction, we guaranty to each MBS trust that
    we will supplement mortgage loan collections as required to
    permit timely payment of principal and interest due on the
    related

8

Table of Contents   

Fannie Mae MBS. In return, we receive a fee for providing that
    guaranty. Our guaranty supports the liquidity of Fannie Mae MBS
    and makes it easier for lenders to sell these securities. When
    lenders receive Fannie Mae MBS in exchange for mortgage loans,
    they may hold the Fannie Mae MBS for investment or sell the MBS
    in the secondary mortgage market. This option allows lenders to
    manage their assets so that they continue to have funds
    available to make new mortgage loans. In holding Fannie Mae MBS
    created from a pool of whole loans, a lender has securities that
    are generally more liquid than whole loans, which provides the
    lender with greater financial flexibility. The ability of
    lenders to sell Fannie Mae MBS quickly allows them to continue
    making mortgage loans even under economic and capital markets
    conditions that might otherwise constrain mortgage financing
    activities.

The following table provides a breakdown of our single-family
    mortgage credit book of business as of December 31, 2004.
    Our single-family mortgage credit book of business refers to the
    sum of the unpaid principal balance of: (1) the
    single-family mortgage loans we hold in our investment
    portfolio; (2) the Fannie Mae MBS and non-Fannie Mae
    mortgage-related securities backed by single-family mortgage
    loans we hold in our investment portfolio; (3) Fannie Mae
    MBS backed by single-family mortgage loans that are held by
    third parties; and (4) credit enhancements that we provide
    on single-family mortgage assets. Our Single-Family business
    manages the risk that borrowers will default in the payment of
    principal and interest due on the single-family mortgage loans
    held in our investment portfolio or underlying Fannie Mae MBS
    (whether held in our investment portfolio or held by third
    parties).

Single-Family
    Mortgage Credit Book of Business  

(1)   

Refers to mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities that are not guaranteed or insured
    by the U.S. government or any of its agencies.

(2)   

Refers to mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities guaranteed or insured by the
    U.S. government or one of its agencies.

(3)   

Mortgage portfolio data is reported
    based on unpaid principal balance. Our Single-Family business
    manages the credit risk relating to the single-family mortgage
    loans and Fannie Mae MBS held in our portfolio that are backed
    by single-family mortgage loans. Our Capital Markets group
    manages the institutional counterparty credit risk relating to
    the agency mortgage-related securities, mortgage revenue bonds
    and other mortgage-related securities held in our portfolio.

(4)   

Mortgage loan data includes
    mortgage-related securities that were consolidated and reported
    in our consolidated balance sheet as loans.

(5)   

Includes mortgage-related
    securities issued by Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae.

(6)   

Includes mortgage-related
    securities issued by entities other than Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac
    or Ginnie Mae.

(7)   

Includes Fannie Mae MBS held by
    third-party investors. The principal balance of resecuritized
    Fannie Mae MBS is included only once.

(8)   

Includes additional single-family
    credit enhancements that we provide not otherwise reflected in
    the table.

9

Table of Contents   

To ensure that acceptable loans are received from lenders as
    well as to assist lenders in efficiently and accurately
    processing loans that they deliver to us, we have established
    guidelines for the types of loans and credit risks that we
    accept. These guidelines also ensure compliance with the types
    of loans that our charter authorizes us to purchase. For a
    description of our charter requirements, see  Our Charter
    and Regulation of Our Activities.  We have developed
    technology-based solutions that assist our lender customers in
    delivering loans to us efficiently and at lower costs. Our
    automated underwriting system for single-family mortgage loans,
    known as Desktop
    Underwriter   ,
    assists lenders in applying our underwriting guidelines to the
    single-family loans they originate. Desktop Underwriter is
    designed to help lenders process mortgage applications in a more
    efficient and accurate manner and to apply our underwriting
    criteria to all prospective borrowers consistently and
    objectively. After assessing the creditworthiness of the
    borrowers and originating the loans, lenders deliver the whole
    loans to us and represent and warrant to us that the loans meet
    our guidelines and any agreed-upon variances from the guidelines.

Guaranty
    Services   

Our Single-Family business provides guaranty services by
    assuming the credit risk of the single-family mortgage loans
    underlying our guaranteed Fannie Mae MBS held by third parties.
    Our Single-Family business also assumes the credit risk of the
    single-family mortgage loans held in our investment portfolio,
    as well as the single-family mortgage loans underlying Fannie
    Mae MBS held in our portfolio.

Our most common type of guaranty transaction is referred to as a
     lender swap transaction.  Lenders pool their loans
    and deliver them to us in exchange for Fannie Mae MBS backed by
    these loans. After receiving the loans in a lender swap
    transaction, we place them in a trust that is established for
    the sole purpose of holding the loans separate and apart from
    our assets. We serve as trustee for the trust. Upon creation of
    the trust, we deliver to the lender (or its designee) Fannie Mae
    MBS that are backed by the pool of mortgage loans in the trust
    and that represent a beneficial ownership interest in each of
    the loans. We guarantee to each MBS trust that we will
    supplement mortgage loan collections as required to permit
    timely payment of principal and interest due on the related
    Fannie Mae MBS. The mortgage servicers for the underlying
    mortgage loans collect the principal and interest payments from
    the borrowers. We permit them to retain a portion of the
    interest payment as compensation for servicing the mortgage
    loans before distributing the principal and remaining interest
    payments to us. We retain a portion of the interest payment as
    the fee for providing our guaranty, and then, on behalf of the
    trust, we make monthly distributions to the Fannie Mae MBS
    certificate holders from the principal and interest payments and
    other collections on the underlying mortgage loans.

The following diagram illustrates the basic process by which we
    create a typical Fannie Mae MBS in the case where a lender
    chooses to sell the Fannie Mae MBS to a third party investor.

10

Table of Contents   

To better serve the needs of our lender customers as well as to
    respond to changing market conditions and investor preferences,
    we offer different types of Fannie Mae MBS backed by
    single-family loans, as described below:

Single-Family Single-Class Fannie Mae MBS  represent
    beneficial interests in single-family mortgage loans held in an
    MBS trust that were delivered to us typically by a single lender
    in exchange for the single-class Fannie Mae MBS. The
    certificate holders in a single-class Fannie Mae MBS issue
    receive principal and interest payments in proportion to their
    percentage ownership of the MBS issue.

Fannie
    Majors   
     are a form of single-class Fannie Mae MBS in which
    generally two or more lenders deliver mortgage loans to us, and
    we then group all of the loans together in one MBS pool. In this
    case, the certificate holders receive beneficial interests in
    all of the loans in the pool and, as a result, may benefit from
    a diverse group of lenders contributing loans to the MBS rather
    than having an interest in loans obtained from only one lender,
    as well as increased liquidity from a larger-sized pool.

Single-Family Whole Loan Multi-Class Fannie Mae MBS
     are multi-class Fannie Mae MBS that are formed from
    single-family whole loans. Our Single-Family business works with
    our Capital Markets group in structuring these single-family
    whole loan multi-class Fannie Mae MBS. Single-family whole
    loan multi-class Fannie Mae MBS divide the cash flows on
    the underlying loans and create several classes of securities,
    each of which represents a beneficial ownership interest in a
    separate portion of the cash flows.

Guaranty
    Fees   

We enter into agreements with our lender customers that
    establish the guaranty fee arrangements for that customer s
    Fannie Mae MBS transactions. Guaranty fees are generally paid to
    us on a monthly basis from a portion of the interest payments
    made on the underlying mortgage loans in the MBS trust.

The aggregate amount of single-family guaranty fees we receive
    in any period depends on the amount of Fannie Mae MBS
    outstanding during that period and the applicable guaranty fee
    rates. The amount of Fannie Mae MBS outstanding at any time is
    primarily determined by the rate at which we issue new Fannie
    Mae MBS and by the repayment rate for the loans underlying our
    outstanding Fannie Mae MBS. Less significant factors affecting
    the amount of Fannie Mae MBS outstanding are the rates of
    borrower defaults on the loans and the extent to which lenders
    repurchase loans from the pools because the loans do not conform
    to the representations made by the lenders.

Since we began issuing our Fannie Mae MBS nearly 25 years
    ago, the total amount of our outstanding single-family Fannie
    Mae MBS (which includes both Fannie Mae MBS held in our
    portfolio and Fannie Mae MBS held by third parties) has grown
    steadily. As of December 31, 2004 and 2005, total
    outstanding single-family Fannie Mae MBS was $1.8 trillion and
    $1.9 trillion, respectively. As of September 30, 2006, our
    total outstanding single-family Fannie Mae MBS was $2.0
    trillion. Growth in our total outstanding Fannie Mae MBS has
    been supported by the value that lenders and other investors
    place on Fannie Mae MBS.

Our
    Customers   

Our Single-Family business is primarily responsible for managing
    the relationships with our lender customers that supply mortgage
    loans both for securitization into Fannie Mae MBS and for
    purchase by our mortgage portfolio. During 2004, over 1,000
    lenders delivered mortgage loans to us, either for purchase by
    our mortgage portfolio or for securitization into Fannie Mae
    MBS. We acquire a significant portion of our single-family
    mortgage loans from several large mortgage lenders. During 2004,
    our top five lender customers, in the aggregate, accounted for
    approximately 53% of our single-family business volumes (which
    refers to both single-family mortgage loans that we purchase for
    our mortgage portfolio as well as single-family mortgage loans
    that we securitize into Fannie Mae MBS). Our top customer,
    Countrywide Financial Corporation (through its subsidiaries),
    accounted for approximately 26% of our single-family business
    volumes in 2004. Due to consolidation within the mortgage
    industry, we, as well as our competitors, have been competing
    for business from a decreasing number of large mortgage lenders.
    See  Item 1A Risk Factors  for a discussion
    of the risks to our business resulting from this customer
    concentration.

11

Table of Contents   

TBA
    Market   

The TBA, or  to be announced,  securities market is a
    forward, or delayed delivery, market for
     30-year  and
     15-year 
    fixed-rate single-family mortgage-related securities issued by
    us and other agency issuers. Most of our single-class
    single-family Fannie Mae MBS are sold by lenders in the TBA
    market. Lenders use the TBA market both to purchase and sell
    Fannie Mae MBS.

A TBA trade represents a forward contract for the purchase or
    sale of single-family mortgage-related securities to be
    delivered on a specified future date. In a typical TBA trade,
    the specific mortgage pools that will be delivered to fulfill
    the forward contract are unknown at the time of the trade.
    Parties to a TBA trade agree upon the issuer, coupon, price,
    product type, amount of securities and settlement date for
    delivery. Settlement for TBA trades is standardized to occur on
    one specific day each month. The mortgage-related securities
    that ultimately will be delivered, and the loans backing those
    mortgage-related securities, frequently have not been created or
    originated at the time of the TBA trade, even though a price for
    the securities is agreed to at that time. Some trades are
    stipulated trades, in which the buyer and seller agree on
    specific characteristics of the mortgage loans underlying the
    mortgage-related securities to be delivered (such as loan age,
    loan size or geographic area of the loan). Some other
    transactions are specified trades, in which the buyer and seller
    identify the actual mortgage pool to be traded (specifying the
    pool or CUSIP number). These specified trades typically involve
    existing, seasoned TBA-eligible securities issued in the market.
    TBA sales enable originating mortgage lenders to hedge their
    interest rate risk and efficiently lock in interest rates for
    mortgage loan applicants throughout the loan origination
    process. The TBA market lowers transaction costs, increases
    liquidity and facilitates efficient settlement of sales and
    purchases of mortgage-related securities.

Credit
    Risk Management   

Our Single-Family business bears the credit risk of borrowers
    defaulting on their payments of principal and interest on the
    single-family mortgage loans that back our guaranteed Fannie Mae
    MBS, including Fannie Mae MBS held in our mortgage portfolio. In
    addition, Single-Family bears the credit risk associated with
    the single-family whole mortgage loans held in our mortgage
    portfolio. The Single-Family business receives a guaranty fee in
    return for bearing the credit risk on guaranteed single-family
    Fannie Mae MBS, including Fannie Mae MBS held in our mortgage
    portfolio. In return for bearing credit risk on the
    single-family whole mortgage loans held in our mortgage
    portfolio, Single-Family is allocated fees from the Capital
    Markets group comparable to the guaranty fees that Single-Family
    receives on guaranteed Fannie Mae MBS. As a result, in our
    segment reporting, the expenses of the Capital Markets group
    include the transfer cost of the guaranty fees and related fees
    allocated to Single-Family, and the revenues of Single-Family
    include the guaranty fees and related fees received from the
    Capital Markets group.

The credit risk associated with a single-family mortgage loan is
    largely determined by the creditworthiness of the borrower, the
    nature and terms of the loan, the type of property securing the
    loan, the ratio of the unpaid principal amount of the loan to
    the value of the property that serves as collateral for the loan
    (the
      loan-to-value 
    ratio  or  LTV ratio ) and general economic
    conditions, including employment levels and the rate of
    increases or decreases in home prices. We actively manage, on an
    aggregate basis, the extent and nature of the credit risk we
    bear, with the objective of ensuring that we are adequately
    compensated for the credit risk we take, consistent with our
    mission goals. For a description of our methods for managing
    mortgage credit risk and a description of the credit
    characteristics of our single-family mortgage credit book of
    business, refer to  Item 7 MD Risk
    Management Credit Risk Management.  Refer to
     Item 1A Risk Factors  for a description of
    the risks associated with our management of credit risk.

Our Single-Family business is also responsible for managing the
    credit risk to our business posed by defaults by most of our
    institutional counterparties, such as our mortgage insurance
    providers and mortgage servicers. See
     Item 7 MD Risk Management Credit
    Risk Management  for a description of our methods for
    managing institutional counterparty credit risk and
     Item 1A Risk Factors  for a description of
    the risks associated with our management of credit risk.

12

Table of Contents   

Housing
    and Community Development  

Our Housing and Community Development business engages in a
    range of activities primarily related to increasing the supply
    of affordable rental and for-sale housing, as well as increasing
    liquidity in the debt and equity markets related to such
    housing. In 2005, approximately 88% of the multifamily mortgage
    loans we purchased or securitized contributed to the housing
    goals established by HUD. See  Our Charter and Regulation
    of Our Activities Regulation and Oversight of Our
    Activities HUD Regulation Housing Goals  for a
    description of our housing goals.

Our HCD business also engages in other activities through our
    Community Investment and Community Lending Groups, including
    investing in affordable rental properties that qualify for
    federal low-income housing tax credits, making equity
    investments in other rental and for-sale housing, investing in
    acquisition, development and construction financing for
    single-family and multifamily housing developments, providing
    loans and credit support to public entities such as housing
    finance agencies and public housing authorities to support their
    affordable housing efforts, and working with
     not-for-profit 
    entities and local banks to support community development
    projects in underserved areas.

Multifamily
    Group   

HCD s Multifamily Group securitizes multifamily mortgage
    loans into Fannie Mae MBS and facilitates the purchase of
    multifamily mortgage loans for our mortgage portfolio. The
    amount of multifamily mortgage loan volume that we purchase for
    our portfolio as compared to the amount that we securitize into
    Fannie Mae MBS fluctuates from period to period. In recent
    years, the percentage of our multifamily business that has
    consisted of purchases for our investment portfolio has
    increased relative to our securitization activities. Our
    multifamily mortgage loans relate to properties with five or
    more residential units. The properties may be apartment
    communities, cooperative properties or manufactured housing
    communities.

Most of the multifamily loans we purchase or securitize are made
    by lenders that participate in our Delegated Underwriting and
    Servicing, or
    DUS  tm  ,
    program. Under the DUS program, we delegate the underwriting of
    loans to qualified lenders. As long as the lender represents and
    warrants that eligible loans meet our underwriting guidelines,
    we will not require the lender to obtain
     loan-by-loan 
    approval before acquisition by us. DUS lenders generally act as
    servicers on the loans they sell to us, and servicing transfers
    must be approved by us. We also work with DUS lenders to provide
    credit enhancement for taxable and tax-exempt bonds issued by
    entities such as housing finance authorities. DUS lenders
    generally share the credit risk of loans they sell to us by
    absorbing a portion of the loss incurred as a result of a loan
    default. DUS lenders receive a higher servicing fee to
    compensate them for this risk. We believe that the risk-sharing
    feature of the DUS program aligns our interests and the
    interests of the lenders in making a sound credit decision at
    the time the loan is originated by the lender and acquired by
    us, and in servicing the loan throughout its life.

13

Table of Contents   

The following table provides a breakdown of our multifamily
    mortgage credit book of business as of December 31, 2004.
    Our multifamily mortgage credit book of business refers to the
    sum of the unpaid principal balance of: (1) the multifamily
    mortgage loans we hold in our investment portfolio; (2) the
    Fannie Mae MBS and non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related securities
    backed by multifamily mortgage loans we hold in our investment
    portfolio; (3) Fannie Mae MBS backed by multifamily
    mortgage loans that are held by third parties; and
    (4) credit enhancements that we provide on multifamily
    mortgage assets. Our HCD business manages the risk that
    borrowers will default in the payment of principal and interest
    due on the multifamily mortgage loans held in our investment
    portfolio or underlying Fannie Mae MBS (whether held in our
    investment portfolio or held by third parties).

Multifamily
    Mortgage Credit Book of Business  

(1)   

Refers to mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities that are not guaranteed or insured
    by the U.S. government or any of its agencies.

(2)   

Refers to mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities guaranteed or insured by the
    U.S. government or one of its agencies.

(3)   

Mortgage portfolio data is reported
    based on unpaid principal balance. Our HCD business manages the
    credit risk relating to the multifamily mortgage loans and
    Fannie Mae MBS held in our portfolio that are backed by
    multifamily mortgage loans. Our Capital Markets group manages
    the institutional counterparty credit risk relating to the
    agency mortgage-related securities, mortgage revenue bonds and
    other mortgage-related securities held in our portfolio.

(4)   

Mortgage loan data includes
    mortgage-related securities that were consolidated and reported
    in our consolidated balance sheet as loans.

(5)   

Includes mortgage-related
    securities issued by Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae.

(6)   

Includes mortgage-related
    securities issued by entities other than Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac
    or Ginnie Mae.

(7)   

Includes Fannie Mae MBS held by
    investors other than Fannie Mae. The principal balance of
    resecuritized Fannie Mae MBS is included only once.

(8)   

Includes additional multifamily
    credit enhancements that we provide not otherwise reflected in
    the table.

Unlike single-family loans, most multifamily loans require that
    the borrower pay a prepayment premium if the loan is paid before
    the maturity date. Additionally, some multifamily loans are
    subject to lock-out periods during which the loan may not be
    prepaid. The prepayment premium can take a variety of forms,
    including yield maintenance, defeasance or declining percentage.
    These prepayment provisions may provide incremental levels of
    certainty and reinvestment cash flow protection to investors in
    multifamily loans and mortgage-related securities, and may
    reduce the likelihood that a borrower will prepay a loan during
    a period of declining interest rates.

Our Multifamily Group generally creates multifamily Fannie Mae
    MBS in the same manner as our Single-Family business creates
    single-family Fannie Mae MBS. Mortgage lenders deliver
    multifamily mortgage loans

14

Table of Contents   

to us in exchange for our Fannie Mae MBS, which thereafter may
    be held by the lenders or sold in the capital markets. We
    guarantee to each MBS trust that we will supplement mortgage
    loan collections as required to permit timely payment of
    principal and interest due on the related multifamily Fannie Mae
    MBS. In return for our guaranty, we are paid a guaranty fee out
    of a portion of the interest on the loans underlying the
    multifamily Fannie Mae MBS. For a description of a typical
    lender swap transaction by which we create Fannie Mae MBS, see
     Single-Family Credit Guaranty Guaranty Services 
    above.

As with our Single-Family business, our Multifamily Group offers
    different types of Fannie Mae MBS as a service to our lenders
    and as a response to specific investor preferences. The most
    commonly issued multifamily Fannie Mae MBS are described below:

Multifamily Single-Class Fannie Mae MBS  represent
    beneficial interests in multifamily mortgage loans held in an
    MBS trust and that were delivered to us by a lender in exchange
    for the single-class Fannie Mae MBS. The certificate
    holders in a single-class Fannie Mae MBS issue receive
    principal and interest payments in proportion to their
    percentage ownership of the MBS issue.

Discount Fannie Mae MBS  are short-term securities that
    generally have maturities between three and nine months and are
    backed by one or more participation certificates representing
    interests in multifamily loans. Investors earn a return on their
    investment in these securities by purchasing them at a discount
    to their principal amounts and receiving the full principal
    amount when the securities reach maturity. Discount MBS have no
    prepayment risk since prepayments are not allowed prior to
    maturity.

Multifamily Whole Loan Multi-Class Fannie Mae MBS
     are multi-class Fannie Mae MBS that are formed from
    multifamily whole loans, Federal Housing Administration
    ( FHA )  participation certificates
     and/or 
    Government National Mortgage Association ( Ginnie
    Mae ) participation certificates. Our HCD business works
    with our Capital Markets group in structuring these multifamily
    whole loan multi-class Fannie Mae MBS. Multifamily whole
    loan multi-class Fannie Mae MBS divide the cash flows on
    the underlying loans or participation certificates and create
    several classes of securities, each of which represents a
    beneficial ownership interest in a separate portion of the cash
    flows.

The fee and guaranty arrangements between HCD and Capital
    Markets are similar to the arrangements between Single-Family
    and Capital Markets. Our HCD business bears the credit risk of
    borrowers defaulting on their payments of principal and interest
    on the multifamily mortgage loans that back our guaranteed
    Fannie Mae MBS, including Fannie Mae MBS held in our mortgage
    portfolio. In addition, HCD bears the credit risk associated
    with the multifamily whole mortgage loans held in our mortgage
    portfolio. The HCD business receives a guaranty fee in return
    for bearing the credit risk on guaranteed multifamily Fannie Mae
    MBS, including Fannie Mae MBS held in our mortgage portfolio. In
    return for bearing credit risk on the multifamily whole mortgage
    loans held in our mortgage portfolio, our HCD business is
    allocated fees from the Capital Markets group comparable to the
    guaranty fees that it receives on guaranteed Fannie Mae MBS. As
    a result, in our segment reporting, the expenses of the Capital
    Markets group include the transfer cost of the guaranty fees and
    related fees allocated to our HCD segment, and the revenues of
    the HCD segment include the guaranty fees and related fees
    received from the Capital Markets group.

HCD s Multifamily Group manages credit risk in a manner
    similar to that of Single-Family by managing the quality of the
    mortgages we acquire for our portfolio or securitize into Fannie
    Mae MBS, diversifying our exposure to credit losses, continually
    assessing the level of credit risk that we bear, and actively
    managing problem loans and assets to mitigate credit losses.
    Additionally, multifamily loans sold to us are often subject to
    lender risk-sharing or other lender recourse arrangements. As of
    December 31, 2004, credit enhancements existed on
    approximately 95% of the multifamily mortgage loans that we
    owned or that backed our Fannie Mae MBS. As described above, in
    our DUS program, lenders typically bear a portion of the losses
    incurred on an individual DUS loan. From time to time, we
    acquire multifamily loans pursuant to transactions in which the
    lenders do not bear any risk on the loan and we therefore bear
    all of the risk. In such cases, we are compensated accordingly
    for bearing all of the credit risk on the loan. For a
    description of our management of multifamily credit risk, see
     Item 7 MD Risk Management Credit
    Risk Management.  Refer to  Item 1A Risk
    Factors  for a description of the risks associated with our
    management of credit risk.

15

Table of Contents   

Community
    Investment Group   

HCD s Community Investment Group makes investments that
    increase the supply of affordable housing. Most of these
    investments are in rental housing that qualifies for federal
    low-income housing tax credits, and the remainder are in
    conventional rental and primarily entry-level, for-sale housing.
    These investments are consistent with our focus on serving
    communities in need and making affordable housing more available
    and easier to rent or own.

The Community Investment Group s investments have been made
    predominantly in low-income housing tax credit
    ( LIHTC ) limited partnerships or limited liability
    companies (referred to collectively in this report as
     LIHTC partnerships ) that directly or indirectly own
    an interest in rental housing that the partnerships or companies
    have developed or rehabilitated. By renting a specified portion
    of the housing units to qualified low-income tenants over a
     15-year 
    period, the partnerships become eligible for the federal
    low-income housing tax credit. The low-income housing tax credit
    was enacted as part of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 to encourage
    investment by private developers and investors in low-income
    rental housing. To qualify for this tax credit, among other
    requirements, the project owner must irrevocably elect that
    either (1) a minimum of 20% of the residential units will
    be rent-restricted and occupied by tenants whose income does not
    exceed 50% of the area median gross income, or (2) a
    minimum of 40% of the residential units will be rent-restricted
    and occupied by tenants whose income does not exceed 60% of the
    area median gross income. The LIHTC partnerships are generally
    organized by fund manager sponsors who seek out investments with
    third-party developers who in turn develop or rehabilitate the
    properties and subsequently manage them. We invest in these
    partnerships as a limited partner with the fund manager acting
    as the general partner.

In making investments in these LIHTC partnerships, our Community
    Investment Group identifies qualified sponsors and structures
    the terms of our investment. Our risk exposure is limited to the
    amount of our investment and the possible recapture of the tax
    benefits we have received from the partnership. To manage the
    risks associated with a partnership, we track compliance with
    the LIHTC requirements, as well as the property condition and
    financial performance of the underlying investment throughout
    the life of the investment. In addition, we evaluate the
    strength of the partnership s sponsor through periodic
    financial and operating assessments. Furthermore, in some of our
    partnership investments, our exposure to loss is further
    mitigated by our having a guaranteed economic return from an
    investment grade counterparty.

As of December 31, 2004, we had a recorded investment in
    these LIHTC partnerships of $6.8 billion. We earn a return
    on our investments in LIHTC partnerships through reductions in
    our federal income tax liability as a result of the use of the
    tax credits for which the partnerships qualify, as well as the
    deductibility of the partnerships  net operating losses.
    The tax benefits associated with these partnerships was the
    primary reason for our effective tax rate in 2004 being 17%
    versus the federal statutory rate of 35%.

In addition to its investments in LIHTC partnerships, HCD s
    Community Investment Group provides equity investments for
    rental and for-sale housing. These investments are typically
    made through fund managers or directly with developers and
    operators that are well-recognized firms within the industry.
    Because we invest as a limited partner or as a non-managing
    member in a limited liability company, our exposure is generally
    limited to the amount of our investment. Most of our investments
    in for-sale housing involve the construction of entry-level
    homes that are generally eligible for conforming mortgages. As
    of December 31, 2004, we had a recorded investment in these
    equity investments of $1.3 billion.

Community
    Lending Group   

HCD s Community Lending Group supports the expansion of
    available housing by participating in specialized debt financing
    for a variety of customers and by acquiring mortgage loans.
    These activities include:

helping to meet the financing needs of single-family and
    multifamily home builders by purchasing participation interests
    in acquisition, development and construction
    ( AD ) loans from lending institutions;

acquiring small multifamily loans from a variety of lending
    institutions;

16

Table of Contents   

providing financing to designated communities to expand the
    affordable housing stock in those communities as part of their
    community development efforts; and

providing financing for single-family and multifamily housing to
    housing finance agencies, public housing authorities and
    municipalities.

In August 2006, OFHEO advised us to suspend new AD&C
    business until we have finalized and implemented specified
    policies and procedures required to strengthen risk management
    practices related to this business. We expect to have finalized
    and substantially completed implementation of these policies and
    procedures by December 2006. We will not engage in new AD&C
    business until OFHEO determines the finalized policies and
    procedures are satisfactory.

Capital
    Markets  

Our Capital Markets group manages our investment activity in
    mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and other liquid
    investments. We purchase mortgage loans and mortgage-related
    securities from mortgage lenders, securities dealers, investors
    and other market participants. We also sell mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities.

We fund our investments primarily through the proceeds from our
    issuance of debt securities in the domestic and international
    capital markets. By using the proceeds of this debt funding to
    invest in mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities, we
    directly and indirectly increase the amount of funding available
    to mortgage lenders. By managing the structure of our debt
    obligations and through our use of derivatives, we strive to
    substantially limit adverse changes in the net fair value of our
    investment portfolio that result from interest rate changes.

Our Capital Markets group earns most of its income from the
    difference, or spread, between the interest we earn on our
    mortgage portfolio and the interest we pay on the debt we issue
    to fund this portfolio, which is referred to as our net interest
    yield. As described below, our Capital Markets group uses
    various debt and derivative instruments to help manage the
    interest rate risk inherent in our mortgage portfolio. Changes
    in the fair value of the derivative instruments we hold impact
    the net income reported by the Capital Markets group business
    segment. Our Capital Markets group also earns transaction fees
    for issuing structured Fannie Mae MBS, as described below under
     Securitization Activities. 

Mortgage
    Investments   

The amount of our net mortgage investments was
    $924.8 billion as of December 31, 2004 and
    $919.3 billion as of December 31, 2003. As described
    in  Item 7 MD Business Segment
    Results Capital Markets Group,  the amount of our
    mortgage investments has decreased since December 31, 2004.
    We estimate that the amount of our net mortgage investments was
    $720.3 billion as of September 30, 2006. As described
    above under  Financial Restatement, Regulatory Reviews and
    Other Significant Recent Events,  as part of our May 2006
    consent order with OFHEO, we agreed not to increase the size of
    our net mortgage portfolio above $727.75 billion, except in
    limited circumstances at OFHEO s discretion. We will be
    subject to this limitation on mortgage investment growth until
    the Director of OFHEO has determined that modification or
    expiration of the limitation is appropriate in light of
    specified factors such as resolution of accounting and internal
    control issues. For additional information on our capital
    requirements and regulations affecting the amount of our
    mortgage investments, see  Our Charter and Regulation of
    Our Activities  and
     Item 7 MD Liquidity and Capital
    Management Capital Management. 

Our mortgage investments include both mortgage-related
    securities and mortgage loans. We purchase primarily
    conventional single-family fixed-rate or adjustable-rate, first
    lien mortgage loans, or mortgage-related securities backed by
    such loans. In addition, we purchase loans insured by the FHA,
    loans guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs
    ( VA ) or by the Rural Housing Service of the
    Department of Agriculture ( RHS ), manufactured
    housing loans, multifamily mortgage loans, subordinate lien
    mortgage loans ( e.g. , loans secured by second liens) and
    other mortgage-related securities. Most of these loans are
    prepayable at the option of the borrower. Some of our
    investments in mortgage-related securities are effected in the
    TBA market, which is described above under  Single-Family
    Credit Guaranty TBA Market.  Our investments in
    mortgage-related

17

Table of Contents   

securities include structured mortgage-related securities such
    as real estate mortgage investment conduits
    ( REMICs ). The interest rates on the structured
    mortgage-related securities held in our portfolio may not be the
    same as the interest rates on the underlying loans. For example,
    we may hold a floating rate REMIC security with an interest rate
    that adjusts periodically based on changes in a specified market
    reference rate, such as the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
    ( LIBOR  however, the REMIC may be backed by
    fixed-rate mortgage loans. The REMIC securities we own primarily
    fall into two categories: agency REMICs, which are generally
    Fannie Mae-issued REMICs, and non-agency REMICs issued by
    private-label issuers. For information on the composition of our
    mortgage investment portfolio by product type, refer to Table 22
    in  Item 7 MD Business Segment
    Results Capital Markets Group Mortgage
    Investments. 

While our Single-Family and HCD businesses are responsible for
    managing the credit risk associated with our investments in
    mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS, our Capital Markets group is
    responsible for managing the credit risk of the non-Fannie Mae
    mortgage-related securities in our portfolio.

Investment
    Activities and Objectives   

Our Capital Markets group seeks to maximize long-term total
    returns, subject to our risk constraints, while fulfilling our
    chartered liquidity function. We pursue these objectives by
    purchasing, selling and managing mortgage assets based on market
    dynamics and our assessment of the economic attractiveness of
    specific transactions at given points in time. This approach is
    an enhancement to our strategy prior to 2005, which focused
    primarily on buying mortgage assets when anticipated returns met
    or exceeded our hurdle rates and generally holding those assets
    to maturity. We now also consider asset sales in order to
    generate economic value when supply and demand dynamics in our
    market result in attractive pricing for certain assets in our
    portfolio.

The level of our purchases and sales of mortgage assets in any
    given period has been generally determined by the rates of
    return that we expect to be able to earn on the equity capital
    underlying our investments. When we expect to earn returns
    greater than our cost of equity capital, we generally will be an
    active purchaser of mortgage loans and mortgage-related
    securities. When few opportunities exist to earn returns above
    our cost of equity capital, we generally will be a less active
    purchaser, and may be a net seller, of mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities. This investment strategy is
    consistent with our chartered liquidity function, as the periods
    during which our purchase of mortgage assets is economically
    attractive to us generally have been periods in which market
    demand for mortgage assets is low.

The difference, or spread, between the yield on mortgage assets
    available for purchase or sale and our borrowing costs, after
    consideration of the net risks associated with the investment,
    is an important factor in determining whether we are a net buyer
    or seller of mortgage assets. When the spread between the yield
    on mortgage assets and our borrowing costs is wide, which is
    typically when demand for mortgage assets from other investors
    is low, we will look for opportunities to add liquidity to the
    market primarily by purchasing mortgage assets and issuing debt
    to investors to fund those purchases. When this spread is
    narrow, which is typically when market demand for mortgage
    assets is high, we will look for opportunities to meet demand by
    selling mortgage assets from our portfolio. Even in periods of
    high market demand for mortgage assets, however, we expect to be
    an active purchaser of less liquid forms of mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities. The amount of our purchases of
    these mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities may be less
    than the amortization, prepayments and sales of mortgage loans
    we hold and, as a result, our investment balances may decline
    during periods of high market demand.

We determine our total return by measuring the change in the
    fair value of our net assets attributable to common
    stockholders, as adjusted for our capital transactions, such as
    dividend payments and share issuances and repurchases. The fair
    value of our net assets will change from period to period as a
    result of changes in the mix of our assets and liabilities and
    changes in interest rates, expected volatility and other market
    factors. The fair value of our net assets is also subject to
    change due to inherent market fluctuations in the yields on our
    mortgage assets relative to the yields on our debt securities.
    The fair value of our guaranty assets and guaranty obligations
    will also fluctuate in the short term due to changes in interest
    rates. These fluctuations are likely to produce volatility in
    the fair value of our net assets in the short-term that may not
    be representative of our long-term performance.

18

Table of Contents   

Customer
    Transactions and Services   

Our Capital Markets group provides services to our lender
    customers and their affiliates, which include:

offering to purchase a wide variety of mortgage assets,
    including non-standard mortgage loan products, which we either
    retain in our portfolio for investment or sell to other
    investors as a service to assist our customers in accessing the
    market;

segregating customer portfolios to obtain optimal pricing for
    their mortgage loans (for example, segregating Community
    Reinvestment Act or  CRA  eligible loans, which
    typically command a premium);

providing funds at the loan delivery date for purchase of loans
    delivered for securitization; and

assisting customers with the hedging of their mortgage business,
    including entering into options and forward contracts on
    mortgage-related securities, which we offset in the capital
    markets.

These activities provide a significant source of assets for our
    mortgage portfolio, help to create a broader market for our
    customers and enhance liquidity in the secondary mortgage
    market. Although certain securities acquired in this activity
    are accounted for as  trading  securities, we
    contemporaneously enter into economically offsetting positions
    if we do not intend to retain the securities in our portfolio.

In connection with our customer transactions and services
    activities, we may enter into forward commitments to purchase
    mortgage loans or mortgage-related securities that we decide not
    to retain in our portfolio. In these instances, we generally
    will enter into an offsetting sell commitment with another
    investor or require the lender to deliver a sell commitment to
    us together with the loans to be pooled into mortgage-related
    securities.

Mortgage
    Innovation   

Our Capital Markets group also aids our lender customers in
    their efforts to introduce new mortgage products into the
    marketplace. Lenders often face limited secondary market
    appetite for new or innovative mortgage products. Our Capital
    Markets group supports these lenders by purchasing new products
    for our investment portfolio before they develop full track
    records for credit performance and pricing. Among the
    innovations that our Capital Markets group has supported
    recently are
     40-year 
    mortgages, interest-only mortgages and reverse mortgages.

Housing
    Goals   

Our Capital Markets group contributes to our regulatory housing
    goals by purchasing goals-qualifying mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities for our mortgage portfolio. In
    particular, our Capital Markets group is able to purchase
    highly-rated mortgage-related securities backed by mortgage
    loans that meet our regulatory housing goals requirements. Our
    Capital Markets group s purchase of goals-qualifying
    mortgage loans is a critical factor in our ability to meet our
    housing goals.

Funding
    of Our Investments   

Our Capital Markets group funds its investments primarily
    through the issuance of debt securities in the domestic and
    international capital markets. The objective of our debt
    financing activities is to manage our liquidity requirements
    while obtaining funds as efficiently as possible. We structure
    our financings not only to satisfy our funding and risk
    management requirements, but also to access the market in an
    orderly manner with debt securities designed to appeal to a wide
    range of investors. International investors, seeking many of the
    features offered in our debt programs for their
    U.S. dollar-denominated investments, have been a

19

Table of Contents   

significant and growing source of funding in recent years. The
    most significant of the debt financing programs that we conduct
    are the following:

Benchmark
    Securities   .   Through
    our Benchmark Securities program, we sell large, regularly
    scheduled issues of unsecured debt. Our Benchmark Securities
    issues tend to appeal to investors who value liquidity and price
    transparency. The Benchmark Securities program includes:

Benchmark Bills  have maturities of up to one
    year.  On a weekly basis, we auction three-month and
    six-month Benchmark Bills with a minimum issue size of
    $1.0 billion. On a monthly basis, we auction one-year
    Benchmark Bills with a minimum issue size of $1.0 billion.

Benchmark Notes  have maturities ranging between two and
    ten years. Each month, we typically sell one or more new,
    fixed-rate issues of Benchmark Notes through dealer syndicates.
    Each issue has a minimum size of $3.0 billion.

Discount Notes.   We issue short-term debt
    securities called Discount Notes with maturities ranging from
    overnight to 360 days from the date of issuance. Investors
    purchase these notes at a discount to the principal amount and
    receive the principal amount when the notes mature.

Medium-Term Notes.   We issue medium-term notes
    ( MTNs ) with a wide range of maturities, interest
    rates and call features. The specific terms of our MTN issuances
    are determined through individually-negotiated transactions with
    broker-dealers. Our MTNs are often callable prior to maturity.
    We issue both fixed-rate and floating-rate securities, as well
    as various types of structured notes that combine features of
    traditional debt with features of other capital market
    instruments.

Subordinated Debt.   Pursuant to voluntary
    commitments that we made in October 2000, from time to time we
    have issued subordinated debt. The terms of our qualifying
    subordinated debt require us to defer interest payments on this
    debt in specified limited circumstances. The difference, or
    spread, between the trading prices of our subordinated debt and
    our senior debt serves as a market indicator to investors of the
    relative credit risk of our debt. A narrow spread between the
    trading prices of our subordinated debt and senior debt implies
    that the market perceives the credit risk of our debt to be
    relatively low. A wider spread between these prices implies that
    the market perceives our debt to have a higher relative credit
    risk. As of the date of this filing, we had $11.0 billion
    in qualifying subordinated debt outstanding. We have not issued
    any subordinated debt since 2003. During 2004, we suspended
    further issuances of subordinated debt and are not likely to
    resume issuances until we return to timely reporting of our
    financial results. Our October 2000 voluntary commitments
    relating to subordinated debt have been replaced by an agreement
    we entered into with OFHEO on September 1, 2005, pursuant
    to which we agreed to maintain a specified amount of qualifying
    subordinated debt. Although we have not issued subordinated debt
    since 2003, we are in compliance with our obligations relating
    to the maintenance of subordinated debt under our
    September 1, 2005 agreement with OFHEO. For more
    information on our subordinated debt, see
     Item 7 MD Liquidity and Capital
    Management Capital Management Capital
    Activity Subordinated Debt. 

For more information regarding our approach to funding our
    investments and other activities, see
     Item 7 MD Liquidity and Capital
    Management Liquidity Debt Funding. 

While we are a corporation chartered by the U.S. Congress,
    we are solely responsible for our debt obligations, and neither
    the U.S. government nor any instrumentality of the
    U.S. government guarantees any of our debt. Our debt trades
    in the  agency sector  of the capital markets, along
    with the debt of other GSEs. Debt in the agency sector benefits
    from bank regulations that allow commercial banks to invest in
    our debt and other agency debt to a greater extent than other
    debt. These factors, along with the high credit rating of our
    senior unsecured debt securities and the manner in which we
    conduct our financing programs, contribute to the favorable
    trading characteristics of our debt. As a result, we generally
    are able to borrow at lower interest rates than other corporate
    debt issuers. For information on the credit ratings of our
    long-term and short-term senior unsecured debt, qualifying
    subordinated debt and preferred stock, refer to
     Item 7 MD Liquidity and Capital
    Management Liquidity Credit Ratings and Risk
    Ratings. 

20

Table of Contents   

In order to support the liquidity and strength of our debt
    programs, we engage in periodic repurchases of our debt
    securities. During 2004, we repurchased $4.3 billion of our
    outstanding debt through market purchases. We also called
    $155.6 billion of our outstanding debt.

Securitization
    Activities   

Our Capital Markets group engages in two principal types of
    securitization activities:

creating and issuing Fannie Mae MBS from our mortgage portfolio
    assets, either for sale into the secondary market or to retain
    in our portfolio; and

issuing structured Fannie Mae MBS for customers in exchange for
    a transaction fee.

Our Capital Markets group creates Fannie Mae MBS using mortgage
    loans and mortgage-related securities that we hold in our
    investment portfolio (referred to as  portfolio
    securitizations ). Our Capital Markets group may sell these
    Fannie Mae MBS into the secondary market or may retain the
    Fannie Mae MBS in our investment portfolio. The types of Fannie
    Mae MBS that our Capital Markets group creates through portfolio
    securitizations include the same types as those created by our
    Single-Family and HCD businesses, as described in
     Single-Family Credit Guaranty Guaranty Services 
    above. In addition, the Capital Markets group issues structured
    Fannie Mae MBS, which are described below. The structured Fannie
    Mae MBS are generally created through swap transactions,
    typically with our lender customers or securities dealer
    customers. In these transactions, the customer  swaps 
    a mortgage-related security they own for one of the types of
    structured Fannie Mae MBS described below. This process is
    referred to as  resecuritization. 

Our Capital Markets group earns transaction fees for issuing
    structured Fannie Mae MBS for third parties. The most common
    forms of such securities are the following:

Fannie
    Megas    ,
    which are resecuritized single-class Fannie Mae MBS that are
    created in transactions in which a lender or a securities dealer
    contributes two or more previously issued
    single-class Fannie Mae MBS or previously issued Megas, or
    a combination of Fannie Mae MBS and Megas, in return for a new
    issue of Mega certificates.

Multi-class Fannie Mae MBS , including  REMICs ,
    which may separate the cash flows from underlying single-class
     and/or 
    multi-class Fannie Mae MBS, other mortgage-related
    securities or whole mortgage loans into separately tradable
    classes of securities. By separating the cash flows, the
    resulting classes may consist of: (1) interest-only
    payments; (2) principal-only payments; (3) different
    portions of the principal and interest payments; or
    (4) combinations of each of these. Terms to maturity of
    some multi-class Fannie Mae MBS, particularly REMIC
    classes, may match or be shorter than the maturity of the
    underlying mortgage loans
     and/or 
    mortgage-related securities. As a result, each of the classes in
    a multi-class Fannie Mae MBS may have a different coupon
    rate, average life, repayment sensitivity or final maturity. In
    some of our multi-class Fannie Mae MBS transactions, we may
    issue senior classes where we have guaranteed to the trust that
    we will supplement collections on the underlying mortgage assets
    as required to permit timely payment of principal and interest
    due on the related senior class. In these
    multi-class Fannie Mae MBS transactions, we also may issue
    one or more subordinated classes for which we do not provide a
    guaranty. Our Capital Markets group may work with our
    Single-Family or HCD businesses in structuring multi-class
    Fannie Mae MBS.

Interest
    Rate Risk Management   

Our Capital Markets group is subject to the risks of changes in
    long-term earnings and net asset values that may occur due to
    changes in interest rates, interest rate volatility and other
    factors within the financial markets. These risks arise because
    the expected cash flows of our mortgage assets are not perfectly
    matched with the cash flows of our debt instruments.

Our principal source of interest rate risk arises from our
    investment in mortgage assets that give the borrower the option
    to prepay the mortgage at any time. For example, if interest
    rates decrease, borrowers are more likely to refinance their
    mortgages. Refinancings could result in prepaid loans being
    replaced with new investments in lower interest rate loans and,
    consequently, a decrease in future interest income earned on our

21

Table of Contents   

mortgage assets. At the same time, we may not be able to redeem
    or repay a sufficient portion of our existing debt to lower our
    interest expense by the same amount, which may reduce our net
    interest yield.

We strive to maintain low exposure to the risks associated with
    changes in interest rates. To manage our exposure to interest
    rate risk, we engage in the following activities:

Issuance of Callable and Non-Callable Debt.   We
    issue a broad range of both callable and non-callable debt
    securities to manage the duration and prepayment risk of
    expected cash flows of the mortgage assets we own.

Use of Derivative Instruments.   While our debt
    is the primary means by which we manage our interest rate risk
    exposure, we supplement our issuance of debt with interest
    rate-related derivatives to further manage duration and
    prepayment risk. We use derivatives in combination with our
    issuance of debt to reduce the volatility of the estimated fair
    value of our mortgage investments. The benefits of derivatives
    include:

the speed and efficiency with which we can alter our risk
    position; and

the ability to modify some aspects of our expected cash flows in
    a specialized manner that might not be readily achievable with
    debt instruments.

The use of derivatives also involves costs to our business.
    Changes in the estimated fair value of these derivatives impact
    our net income. Accordingly, our net income will be reduced to
    the extent that we incur losses relating to our derivative
    instruments. In addition, our use of derivatives exposes us to
    credit risk relating to our derivative counterparties. We have
    derivative transaction policies and controls in place to
    minimize our derivative counterparty risk. See
     Item 7 MD Risk Management Credit
    Risk Management Institutional Counterparty Credit Risk
    Management Derivatives Counterparties  for a
    description of our derivative counterparty risk and our policies
    and controls in place to minimize such risk. Refer to
     Item 1A Risk Factors  for a description of
    the risks associated with transactions with our derivatives
    counterparties.

Continuous Monitoring of Our Risk Position.   We
    continuously monitor our risk position and actively rebalance
    our portfolio of interest-rate sensitive financial instruments
    to maintain a close match between the duration of our assets and
    liabilities. We use a wide range of risk measures and analytical
    tools to assess our exposure to the risks inherent in the asset
    and liability structure of our business and use these
    assessments in the
     day-to-day 
    management of the mix of our assets and liabilities. If market
    conditions do not permit us to fund and manage our investments
    within our risk parameters, we will not be an active purchaser
    of mortgage assets.

For more information regarding our methods for managing interest
    rate risk and other market risks that impact our business, refer
    to  Item 7 MD Risk
    Management Interest Rate Risk Management and Other Market
    Risks. 

COMPETITION  

Our competitors include the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
    Corporation, referred to as Freddie Mac, the Federal Home
    Loan Banks, financial institutions, securities dealers,
    insurance companies, pension funds and other investors. Our
    market share of loans purchased for our investment portfolio or
    securitized into Fannie Mae MBS is affected by the amount of
    residential mortgage loans offered for sale in the secondary
    market by loan originators and other market participants, and
    the amount purchased or securitized by our competitors. Our
    market share is also affected by the mix of available mortgage
    loan products and the credit risk and prices associated with
    those loans.

We are an active investor in mortgage-related assets and we
    compete with a broad range of investors for the purchase and
    sale of these assets. Our primary competitors for the purchase
    and sale of mortgage assets are participants in the secondary
    mortgage market that we believe also share our general
    investment objective of seeking to maximize the returns they
    receive through the purchase and sale of mortgage assets. In
    addition, in recent years, several large mortgage lenders have
    increased their retained holdings of the mortgage loans they

22

Table of Contents   

originate. Competition for mortgage-related assets among
    investors in the secondary market was intense in 2004 and 2005.
    The spreads between the yield on our debt securities and
    expected yields on mortgage assets, after consideration of the
    net risks associated with the investments, were very narrow in
    2004 and 2005, reflecting strong investor demand from banks,
    funds and other investors. This high demand for mortgage assets
    increased the price of mortgage assets relative to the credit
    risks associated with these assets.

We have been the largest agency issuer of mortgage-related
    securities in every year since 1990. Competition for the
    issuance of mortgage-related securities is intense and
    participants compete on the basis of the value of their products
    and services relative to the prices they charge. Value can be
    delivered through the liquidity and trading levels for an
    issuer s securities, the range of products and services
    offered, and the reliability and consistency with which it
    conducts its business. In recent years, there has been a
    significant increase in the issuance of mortgage-related
    securities by non-agency issuers. Non-agency issuers, also
    referred to as private-label issuers, are those issuers of
    mortgage-related securities other than agency issuers Fannie
    Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. Private-label issuers have
    significantly increased their share of the mortgage-related
    securities market and accounted for more than half of new
    single-family mortgage-related securities issuances in 2005. As
    the market share for private-label securities has increased, our
    market share has decreased. During 2005, our estimated market
    share of new single-family mortgage-related securities issuance
    was 23.5%, compared to 29.2% in 2004 and 45.0% in 2003. For the
    third quarter of 2006, our estimated market share of new
    single-family mortgage-related securities issuance was 24.7%.
    Our estimates of market share are based on publicly available
    data and exclude previously securitized mortgages. We expect
    private-label issuers to continue to provide significant
    competition to our Single-Family business.

We also expect private-label issuers to provide increasingly
    significant competition to our HCD business. The commercial
    mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ) issued by
    private-label issuers are typically backed not only by loans
    secured by multifamily residential property, but also by loans
    secured by a mix of retail, office, hotel and other commercial
    properties. We are restricted by our charter to issuing Fannie
    Mae MBS backed by residential loans, which often have lower
    yields than other types of commercial real estate loans.
    Private-label issuers include multifamily residential loans in
    pools backing CMBS because those properties, while generally
    generating lower cash flow than other types of commercial
    properties, generally have lower default rates, which improves
    the overall performance of CMBS pools. To obtain multifamily
    residential property loans for CMBS pools, private-label issuers
    are sometimes willing to purchase loans of a lesser credit
    quality than the loans we purchase and to price their purchases
    of these loans more aggressively than we typically price our
    purchases. Because we usually guarantee our Fannie Mae MBS, we
    generally maintain high credit standards to limit our exposure
    to defaults. Private-label issuers often structure their CMBS
    transactions so that certain classes of the securities issued in
    each transaction bear most of the default risk on the loans
    underlying the transaction. These securities are placed with
    investors that are prepared to assume that risk in exchange for
    higher yields. We are responding to this increased competition
    from private-label issuers of CMBS, in part, by investing in
    investment grade CMBS securities backed by multifamily loans.

OUR
    CHARTER AND REGULATION OF OUR ACTIVITIES  

We are a stockholder-owned corporation organized and existing
    under the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act,
    which we refer to as the Charter Act or our charter. We were
    established in 1938 pursuant to the National Housing Act and
    originally operated as a U.S. government entity.
    Title III of the National Housing Act amended our charter
    in 1954, and we became a mixed-ownership corporation, with our
    preferred stock owned by the federal government and our common
    stock held by private investors. In 1968, our charter was
    further amended and our predecessor entity was divided into the
    present Fannie Mae and Ginnie Mae. Ginnie Mae remained a
    government entity, but all of the preferred stock of Fannie Mae
    that had been held by the U.S. government was retired, and
    Fannie Mae became privately owned.

23

Table of Contents   

Charter
    Act  

The Charter Act, as it was further amended from 1970 through
    1998, sets forth the activities that we are permitted to
    conduct, authorizes us to issue debt and equity securities, and
    describes our general corporate powers. The Charter Act states
    that our purpose is to:

provide stability in the secondary market for residential
    mortgages;

respond appropriately to the private capital market;

provide ongoing assistance to the secondary market for
    residential mortgages (including activities relating to
    mortgages on housing for low- and moderate-income families
    involving a reasonable economic return that may be less than the
    return earned on other activities) by increasing the liquidity
    of mortgage investments and improving the distribution of
    investment capital available for residential mortgage
    financing; and

promote access to mortgage credit throughout the nation
    (including central cities, rural areas and underserved areas) by
    increasing the liquidity of mortgage investments and improving
    the distribution of investment capital available for residential
    mortgage financing.

In addition to our overall strategy being aligned with these
    purposes, all of our business activities must be permissible
    under the Charter Act. Our charter specifically authorizes us to
     deal in  conventional mortgage loans and to
     purchase,   sell,   service,  and
     lend on the security of  these types of mortgages,
    subject to limitations on the maximum original principal balance
    for single-family loans and requirements for credit enhancement
    for some loans. Under our Charter Act authority, we can purchase
    mortgage loans secured by first or second liens, issue debt and
    issue mortgage-backed securities. In addition, we can guarantee
    mortgage-backed securities. We can also act as a depository,
    custodian or fiscal agent for our  own account or as
    fiduciary, and for the account of others.  Furthermore, the
    Charter Act expressly enables us to  lease, purchase, or
    acquire any property, real, personal, or mixed, or any interest
    therein, to hold, rent, maintain, modernize, renovate, improve,
    use, and operate such property, and to sell, for cash or credit,
    lease, or otherwise dispose of the same  as we may deem
    necessary or appropriate and also  to do all things as are
    necessary or incidental to the proper management of [our]
    affairs and the proper conduct of [our] business. 

Loan
    Standards   

The single-family conventional mortgage loans we purchase or
    securitize must meet the following standards required by the
    Charter Act.

Principal Balance Limitations.   Our charter
    permits us to purchase and securitize single-family conventional
    mortgage loans subject to maximum original principal balance
    limits. Conventional mortgage loans are loans that are not
    federally insured or guaranteed. The principal balance limits
    are often referred to as  conforming loan limits  and
    are established each year by OFHEO based on the national average
    price of a one-family residence. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, the
    conforming loan limit for a one-family residence generally was
    $333,700, $359,650 and $417,000, respectively. In November 2006,
    OFHEO announced that the conforming loan limit will remain at
    $417,000 for 2007. Higher original principal balance limits
    apply to mortgage loans secured by two- to four-family
    residences and also to loans in Alaska, Hawaii, Guam and the
    Virgin Islands. No statutory limits apply to the maximum
    original principal balance of multifamily mortgage loans (loans
    secured by properties that have five or more residential
    dwelling units) that we purchase or securitize. In addition, the
    Charter Act imposes no maximum original principal balance limits
    on loans we purchase or securitize that are insured by the FHA
    or guaranteed by the VA.

Quality Standards.   The Charter Act requires
    that, so far as practicable and in our judgment, the mortgage
    loans we purchase or securitize must be of a quality, type and
    class that generally meet the purchase standards of private
    institutional mortgage investors. To comply with this
    requirement and for the efficient operation of our business, we
    have eligibility policies and make available guidelines for the
    mortgage loans we purchase or securitize as well as for the
    sellers and servicers of these loans.

Loan-to-Value 
    and Credit Enhancement Requirements.   The Charter
    Act requires credit enhancement on any conventional
    single-family mortgage loan that we purchase or securitize if it
    has a
     loan-to-value 
    ratio

24

Table of Contents   

over 80% at the time of purchase or securitization. Credit
    enhancement may take the form of insurance or a guaranty issued
    by a qualified insurer, a repurchase arrangement with the seller
    of the loans or seller-retained loan participation interests. In
    addition, our policies and guidelines have
     loan-to-value 
    ratio requirements that depend upon a variety of factors, such
    as the borrower credit history, the loan purpose, the repayment
    terms and the number of dwelling units in the property securing
    the loan. Depending on these factors and the amount and type of
    credit enhancement we obtain, our underwriting guidelines
    provide that the
     loan-to-value 
    ratio for loans that we purchase or securitize can be up to 100%
    for conventional single-family loans; however, from time to
    time, we may make an exception to these guidelines and acquire
    loans with a
     loan-to-value 
    ratio greater than 100%.

Other
    Charter Act Limitations and Requirements   

In addition to specifying our purpose, authorizing our
    activities and establishing various limitations and requirements
    relating to the loans we purchase and securitize, the Charter
    Act has the following provisions related to issuances of our
    securities, exemptions for our securities from the registration
    requirements of the federal securities laws, the taxation of our
    income, the structure of our Board of Directors and other
    limitations and requirements.

Issuances of Our Securities.   The Charter Act
    authorizes us, upon approval of the Secretary of the Treasury,
    to issue debt obligations and mortgage-related securities. At
    the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, the
    U.S. Department of the Treasury may purchase obligations of
    Fannie Mae up to a maximum of $2.25 billion outstanding at
    any one time. We have not used this facility since our
    transition from government ownership in 1968. Neither the United
    States nor any of its agencies guarantees our debt or is
    obligated to finance our operations or assist us in any other
    manner. On June 13, 2006, the U.S. Department of the
    Treasury announced that it would undertake a review of its
    process for approving our issuances of debt. We cannot predict
    whether the outcome of this review will materially impact our
    current business activities.

Exemptions for Our Securities.   Securities we
    issue are  exempted securities  under laws
    administered by the SEC. As a result, registration statements
    with respect to offerings of our securities are not filed with
    the SEC. In March 2003, however, we voluntarily registered our
    common stock with the SEC pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ).
    We are thereby required to file periodic and current reports
    with the SEC, including annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    and current reports on
     Form 8-K. 
    Since undertaking to restate our 2002 and 2003 consolidated
    financial statements and improve our accounting practices and
    internal control over financial reporting, we have not been a
    timely filer of our periodic reports on
     Form 10-K 
    or
     Form 10-Q. 
    We are continuing to improve our accounting and internal control
    over financial reporting and are striving to become a timely
    filer as soon as practicable. We are also required to file proxy
    statements with the SEC. In addition, our directors and certain
    officers are required to file reports with the SEC relating to
    their ownership of Fannie Mae equity securities.

Exemption from Certain Taxes and
    Qualifications.   Pursuant to the Charter Act, we
    are exempt from taxation by states, counties, municipalities or
    local taxing authorities, except for taxation by those
    authorities on our real property. We are not exempt from the
    payment of federal corporate income taxes. In addition, we may
    conduct our business without regard to any qualification or
    similar statute in any state of the United States, including the
    District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the
    territories and possessions of the United States. In accordance
    with OFHEO regulation, we have elected to follow the applicable
    corporate governance practices and procedures of the Delaware
    General Corporation Law, as it may be amended from time to time.

Structure of Our Board of Directors.   The
    Charter Act provides that our Board of Directors will consist of
    18 persons, five of whom are to be appointed by the President of
    the United States and the remainder of whom are to be elected
    annually by our stockholders at our annual meeting of
    stockholders. All members of our Board of Directors either are
    elected by our stockholders for one-year terms, or until their
    successors are elected and qualified, or are appointed by the
    President for one-year terms. The five appointed director
    positions have been vacant since May 2004. Of the remaining
    13 director positions, one director has announced that he
    will be resigning at the end of 2006. Our Board has determined
    that

25

Table of Contents   

all but two of our current directors, one of whom is our Chief
    Executive Officer, are independent directors under New York
    Stock Exchange standards. Because we have not held an annual
    meeting of stockholders since 2004, some of our directors have
    currently served for longer than one-year terms.

Other Limitations and Requirements.   Under the
    Charter Act, we may not originate mortgage loans or advance
    funds to a mortgage seller on an interim basis, using mortgage
    loans as collateral, pending the sale of the mortgages in the
    secondary market. In addition, we may only purchase or
    securitize mortgages originated in the United States, including
    the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and
    the territories and possessions of the United States.

Regulation
    and Oversight of Our Activities  

As a federally chartered corporation, we are subject to
    Congressional legislation and oversight and are regulated by HUD
    and OFHEO. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the U.S.
    Department of the Treasury and by the SEC. The Government
    Accountability Office is authorized to audit our programs,
    activities, receipts, expenditures and financial transactions.

HUD
    Regulation   

Program
    Approval  

HUD has general regulatory authority to promulgate rules and
    regulations to carry out the purposes of the Charter Act,
    excluding authority over matters granted exclusively to OFHEO.
    We are required under the Charter Act to obtain approval of the
    Secretary of HUD for any new conventional mortgage program that
    is significantly different from those approved or engaged in
    prior to the 1992 amendment of the Charter Act through enactment
    of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and
    Soundness Act (the  1992 Act ). The Secretary must
    approve any new program unless the Charter Act does not
    authorize it or the Secretary finds that it is not in the public
    interest.

On June 13, 2006, HUD announced that it would conduct a
    review of our investments and holdings, including certain equity
    and debt investments classified in our consolidated financial
    statements as  other assets/other liabilities,  to
    determine whether our investment activities are consistent with
    our charter authority. We are fully cooperating with this
    review, but cannot predict the outcome of this review or whether
    it may require us to modify our investment approach or restrict
    our current business activities.

Housing
    Goals  

The Secretary of HUD establishes annual housing goals pursuant
    to the 1992 Act for housing (1) for low- and
    moderate-income families, (2) in HUD-defined underserved
    areas, including central cities and rural areas, and
    (3) for low-income families in low-income areas and for
    very low-income families, which is referred to as  special
    affordable housing.  Each of these three goals is set as a
    percentage of the total number of dwelling units financed by
    eligible mortgage loan purchases. A dwelling unit may be counted
    in more than one category of goals. Included in eligible
    mortgage loan purchases are loans underlying our Fannie Mae MBS
    issuances, second mortgage loans and refinanced mortgage loans.
    Several activities are excluded from eligible mortgage loan
    purchases, such as most purchases of non-conventional mortgage
    loans, equity investments (even if they facilitate low-income
    housing), mortgage loans secured by second homes and commitments
    to purchase or securitize mortgage loans at a later date. In
    addition to the three goals set as a percentage of dwelling
    units financed by eligible mortgage loan purchases, beginning in
    2005, HUD also established three home purchase mortgage subgoals
    that measure our purchase or securitization of loans by the
    number of loans (not dwelling units) providing purchase money
    for owner-occupied single-family housing in metropolitan areas.
    We also have a subgoal for multifamily special affordable
    housing that is expressed as a dollar amount.

Each year, we are required to submit an annual report on our
    performance in meeting our housing goals. We deliver the report
    to the Secretary of HUD as well as to the House Committee on
    Financial Services and the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing
    and Urban Affairs. The following table shows each of the housing

26

Table of Contents   

goals, which were constant during the 2002 through 2004 period,
    and our performance against those goals in each of the years in
    this period.

Housing
    Goals Performance:
     2002-2004   

(1)   

Goals are expressed as a percentage
    of the total number of dwelling units financed by eligible
    mortgage loan purchases during the period, except for the
    multifamily subgoal.

(2)   

Actual results for 2004, 2003 and
    2002 reflect the impact of provisions that allow us to estimate
    the affordability of units with missing income and rent data.
    Actual results for 2003 and 2002 reflect the impact of incentive
    points for small multifamily and owner-occupied rental housing,
    which were no longer available starting in 2004. The source of
    this data is HUD s analysis of data we submitted to HUD.
    Some results differ from the results we reported in our Annual
    Housing Activities Reports for 2002, 2003 and 2004.

As shown by the table above, we were able to meet all of our
    housing goals in each of the years from 2002 through 2004.

On November 2, 2004, HUD published a final regulation
    amending its housing goals rule effective January 1, 2005.
    The regulation increased housing goal levels and also created
    the three new home purchase mortgage subgoals described above.
    The increased housing goal levels and new subgoal levels over
    the four-year period beginning January 1, 2005 are shown
    below.

New
    Housing Goals and Home Purchase Subgoals  

27

Table of Contents   

The following table shows each of our housing goals and home
    purchase subgoals during 2005, and our performance against those
    goals and subgoals in 2005.

Housing
    Goals and Subgoals Performance: 2005  

(1)   

The home purchase subgoals measure
    our performance by the number of loans (not dwelling units)
    providing purchase money for owner-occupied single-family
    housing in metropolitan areas.

(2)   

The source of this data is
    HUD s analysis of data we submitted to HUD. Some results
    differ from the results reported in our Annual Housing
    Activities Report for 2005.

As shown in the table above, we met all of our three affordable
    housing goals: the low- and moderate-income housing goal, the
    underserved areas goal and the special affordable housing goal.
    We also met three of the four subgoals: the special affordable
    home purchase subgoal, the underserved areas home purchase
    subgoal, and the special affordable multifamily subgoal. We fell
    slightly short of the low- and moderate-income home purchase
    subgoal.

The affordable housing goals are subject to enforcement by the
    Secretary of HUD. HUD s regulations allow HUD to require us
    to submit a housing plan if we fail to meet our housing goals
    and HUD determines that achievement was feasible, taking into
    account market and economic conditions and our financial
    condition. The housing plan must describe the actions we will
    take to meet the goals in the next calendar year. If HUD
    determines that we have failed to submit a housing plan or to
    make a good faith effort to comply with the plan, HUD has the
    right to take certain administrative actions. The potential
    penalties for failure to comply with HUD s housing plan
    requirements are a
     cease-and-desist 
    order and civil money penalties. Pursuant to the 1992 Act, the
    low- and moderate-income housing subgoal and the underserved
    areas subgoal are not enforceable by HUD. As noted above, we did
    not meet the low- and moderate-income home purchase subgoal in
    2005. Because this subgoal is not enforceable, there is no
    penalty for failing to meet this subgoal.

These new housing goals and subgoals are designed to increase
    the amount of mortgage financing that we make available to
    target populations and geographic areas defined by the goals. We
    have made, and continue to make, significant adjustments to our
    mortgage loan sourcing and purchase strategies in an effort to
    meet these increased housing goals and the subgoals. These
    strategies include entering into some purchase and
    securitization transactions with lower expected economic returns
    than our typical transactions. We have also relaxed some of our
    underwriting criteria to obtain goals-qualifying mortgage loans
    and increased our investments in higher-risk mortgage loan
    products that are more likely to serve the borrowers targeted by
    HUD s goals and subgoals, which could increase our credit
    losses. The Charter Act explicitly authorizes us to undertake
     activities . . . involving a reasonable economic return
    that may be less than the return earned on other
    activities  in order to meet these goals.

We believe that we are making progress toward achieving our 2006
    housing goals and subgoals. Meeting the higher subgoals for 2006
    is challenging, however, as increased home prices and higher
    interest rates have reduced housing affordability. Since HUD set
    the home purchase subgoals in 2004, the affordable housing
    markets have experienced a dramatic change. Newly-released Home
    Mortgage Disclosure Act data show that the share of the primary
    mortgage market serving low- and moderate-income borrowers
    declined in 2005,

28

Table of Contents   

reducing our ability to purchase and securitize mortgage loans
    that meet the HUD subgoals. The National Association of
    REALTORS   
    ( NAR ) housing affordability index has dropped from
    130.7 in 2003 to 99.6 in July of 2006 the lowest level of
    affordability seen in the market since 1986. If our efforts to
    meet the new housing goals and subgoals prove to be
    insufficient, we may need to take additional steps that could
    increase our credit losses and reduce our profitability. See
     Item 1A Risk Factors  for more information
    on how changes we are making to our business strategies in order
    to meet HUD s new housing goals and subgoals may reduce our
    profitability.

OFHEO
    Regulation   

OFHEO is an independent office within HUD that is responsible
    for ensuring that we are adequately capitalized and operating
    safely in accordance with the 1992 Act. We are required to
    submit to OFHEO annual and quarterly reports on our financial
    condition and results of operations. OFHEO is authorized to levy
    annual assessments on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to the extent
    authorized by Congress, to cover OFHEO s reasonable
    expenses. OFHEO s formal enforcement powers include the
    power to impose temporary and final
     cease-and-desist 
    orders and civil monetary penalties on us and our directors and
    executive officers. OFHEO also may use other informal
    supervisory procedures of the type that are generally used by
    federal bank regulatory agencies.

OFHEO
    Special Examination  

In 2003, OFHEO commenced a special examination of our accounting
    policies and practices, internal controls, financial reporting,
    corporate governance, and other matters. In its September 2004
    interim report and May 2006 final report of the findings of its
    special examination, OFHEO concluded that, during the period
    covered by the reports (1998 to mid-2004), a large number of our
    accounting policies and practices did not comply with GAAP and
    we had serious problems in our internal controls, financial
    reporting and corporate governance. We entered into agreements
    with OFHEO in September 2004 and March 2005 pursuant to which we
    agreed to take specified corrective actions to address the
    concerns and issues that OFHEO raised in its examination.

On May 23, 2006, concurrently with OFHEO s release of
    its final report, we agreed to OFHEO s issuance of a
    consent order without admitting or denying any wrongdoing or any
    asserted or implied finding or other basis for the consent
    order. This consent order superseded and terminated both our
    September 2004 and March 2005 agreements with OFHEO, and
    resolved all matters addressed by OFHEO s interim and final
    reports of its special examination. Under this consent order, we
    agreed to undertake specified remedial actions to address the
    recommendations contained in OFHEO s May 2006 report,
    including actions relating to our corporate governance, Board of
    Directors, capital plans, internal controls, accounting
    practices, public disclosures, regulatory reporting, personnel
    and compensation practices. We also agreed not to increase our
    net mortgage assets above the amount shown in our minimum
    capital report to OFHEO for December 31, 2005
    ($727.75 billion), except in limited circumstances at
    OFHEO s discretion. Given our need to remediate our
    identified control deficiencies, the business plan we submitted
    to OFHEO in July 2006 did not request an increase in the current
    limitation on the size of our mortgage portfolio during 2006. We
    anticipate submitting an updated business plan to OFHEO in early
    2007 that will take into account our remediation efforts
    completed at that time. The business plan may include a request
    for modest growth in our mortgage portfolio.

As part of this consent order and our settlement with the SEC
    discussed below, we agreed to pay a $400 million civil
    penalty, with $50 million payable to the U.S. Treasury
    and $350 million payable to the SEC for distribution to
    stockholders pursuant to the Fair Funds for Investors provision
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have paid this civil
    penalty in full and it has been recorded as an expense in our
    2004 consolidated financial statements.

Capital
    Requirements  

As part of its responsibilities under the 1992 Act, OFHEO has
    regulatory authority as to the capital requirements established
    by the 1992 Act, issuing regulations on capital adequacy and
    enforcing capital standards. The 1992 Act capital requirements
    include minimum and critical capital requirements calculated as
    specified percentages of our assets and our off-balance sheet
    obligations, such as outstanding guaranties. In

29

Table of Contents   

addition, the 1992 Act capital requirements include a risk-based
    capital requirement that is calculated as the amount of capital
    needed to withstand a severe ten-year stress period in which it
    is assumed that there would simultaneously be extreme movements
    in interest rates and severe credit losses. Moreover, to allow
    for management and operations risks, an additional 30% is added
    to the amount necessary to withstand the ten-year stress period.
    On a quarterly basis, we are required by regulation to report to
    OFHEO on the level of our capital and whether we are in
    compliance with the capital requirements established by OFHEO.
    We also provide monthly reports to OFHEO on the level of our
    capital and our compliance with the capital requirements.

Compliance with the capital requirements could limit our
    operations that require intensive use of capital and could
    restrict our ability to make payments on our qualifying
    subordinated debt or pay dividends on our preferred and common
    stock. If we fail to meet our capital requirements, OFHEO is
    permitted or required, depending on the requirement we fail to
    meet, to take remedial actions. Further, if we fail to meet our
    capital requirements, we are required to submit a capital
    restoration plan. We currently operate under a capital
    restoration plan, described below, that OFHEO approved in
    February 2005. In addition, if OFHEO determines that we are
    engaging in conduct not approved by OFHEO s Director that
    could result in a rapid depletion of our core capital, or that
    the value of the property securing mortgage loans we hold or
    have securitized has decreased significantly, or if OFHEO does
    not approve the capital restoration plan or determines that we
    have failed to make reasonable efforts to comply with the plan,
    then OFHEO may take remedial measures as if we were not meeting
    the capital requirements that we otherwise meet.

The 1992 Act gives OFHEO the authority, after following
    prescribed procedures, to appoint a conservator. Under
    OFHEO s regulations, appointment of a conservator is
    mandatory, with limited exceptions, if we are critically
    undercapitalized (that is, our core capital is less than our
    critical capital). Appointment of a conservator is discretionary
    under OFHEO s rules if we are significantly
    undercapitalized (that is, our core capital is less than our
    required minimum capital), and alternative remedies are
    unavailable. The 1992 Act and OFHEO s rules also specify
    other grounds for appointing a conservator.

In December 2004, OFHEO determined that we were significantly
    undercapitalized as of September 30, 2004. We prepared a
    capital restoration plan to comply with OFHEO s directive
    that we achieve a 30% surplus over our statutory minimum capital
    requirement by September 30, 2005. Our plan was accepted by
    OFHEO in February 2005 and, in accordance with the plan, we
    increased our capital in 2005 by:

generating capital through retained earnings;

significantly reducing the size of our mortgage portfolio, which
    reduced our overall minimum capital requirements;

issuing $5.0 billion in non-cumulative preferred stock in
    December 2004;

reducing our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.52 per
    share to $0.26 per share; and

canceling our plans to build major new corporate facilities in
    Southwest Washington, DC and undertaking other cost-cutting
    efforts.

OFHEO announced on November 1, 2005 that we had achieved a
    30% surplus over our minimum capital requirement as of
    September 30, 2005. Under our May 2006 consent order with
    OFHEO, we agreed to continue to maintain a 30% capital surplus
    over our statutory minimum capital requirement until the
    Director of OFHEO, in his discretion, determines the requirement
    should be modified or allowed to expire, taking into account
    factors such as resolution of accounting and internal control
    issues. For additional information on our capital requirements,
    see
      Item 7 MD Liquidity 
    and Capital Management Capital Management Capital
    Adequacy Requirements. 

30

Table of Contents   

Dividend
    Restrictions  

Our capital requirements under the Charter Act and as
    administered by OFHEO may restrict the ability of our Board of
    Directors to declare dividends, authorize repurchases of our
    preferred or common stock, or approve any other capital
    distributions in the following circumstances:

if a capital distribution would decrease our total capital below
    the risk-based capital requirement or our core capital below the
    minimum capital requirement, we may not make the distribution;

if we do not meet the risk-based capital requirement but do meet
    the minimum capital requirement, we may not make any capital
    distribution that would cause us to fail to meet the minimum
    capital requirement; and

if we meet neither the risk-based capital requirement nor the
    minimum capital requirement, but do meet the critical capital
    requirement established under the 1992 Act, we may make a
    capital distribution only if, immediately after making the
    distribution, we would still meet the critical capital
    requirement and the Director of OFHEO approves the distribution
    after determining that specified statutory conditions are
    satisfied.

In addition, under our May 2006 consent order with OFHEO, we
    agreed to the following additional restrictions relating to our
    capital distributions:

As long as the capital restoration plan is in effect, we must
    seek the approval of the Director of OFHEO before engaging in
    any transaction that could have the effect of reducing our
    capital surplus below an amount equal to 30% more than our
    statutory minimum capital requirement; and

We must submit a written report to OFHEO detailing the rationale
    and process for any proposed capital distribution before making
    the distribution.

Refer to  Item 7 MD Liquidity and
    Capital Management Capital Management Capital Adequacy
    Requirements  for a description of our statutory capital
    requirements and our core capital, total capital and other
    capital classification measures as of December 31, 2004,
    2003 and 2002.

Recent
    Legislative Developments and Possible Changes in Our
    Regulations   

The U.S. Congress is considering legislation that would
    change the regulatory framework under which we, Freddie Mac and
    the Federal Home Loan Banks operate. The Senate Committee
    on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs and the U.S. House of
    Representatives each advanced GSE regulatory oversight
    legislation in 2005 during the first session of the
    109th Congress. On October 26, 2005, the House of
    Representatives passed a bill and on July 28, 2005, the
    Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs passed a
    bill, which has not yet been brought to the floor of the Senate
    for a vote. While the House and Senate bills differ in a number
    of respects, both bills would affect us and other GSEs by
    significantly altering the scope of:

our authorized and permissible activities;

the potential level of our required capital;

the size and composition of our mortgage investment portfolio (a
    potential limitation in the House bill and a specific limitation
    in the Senate bill);

the levels of affordable housing goals; and

the process by which any new activities and programs would be
    approved and the extent of regulatory oversight.

In addition, the House bill would require Fannie Mae and Freddie
    Mac to contribute a portion of their profits to a fund to
    support affordable housing.

The specific provisions of legislation, if any, that may
    ultimately be passed by both the House and the Senate are
    uncertain. Also uncertain is the timing for enactment of such
    legislation. We support any legislation that

31

Table of Contents   

will improve our effectiveness in increasing liquidity and
    lowering the cost of borrowing in the mortgage market and, as a
    result, expanding access to housing and increasing opportunities
    for homeownership.

As Fannie Mae has testified before Congress, we continue to
    support legislation:

to create a single independent, well-funded regulator with
    oversight for safety and soundness and mission;

to provide the regulator with strong bank-like regulatory powers
    over capital, activities, supervision and prompt corrective
    action;

to provide the regulator with bank-like regulatory authority to
    reduce on-balance sheet activities, based on safety and
    soundness; and

to provide a structure for housing goals that includes an
    affordable housing fund that strengthens our housing and
    liquidity mission.

It is possible, however, that the enactment of legislation could
    have a material adverse effect on our earnings and the prospects
    for our business. Refer to  Item 1A Risk
    Factors  for a description of how these proposed changes in
    the regulation of our business could materially adversely affect
    our business and earnings.

EMPLOYEES  

As of December 31, 2004, we employed approximately 5,400
    personnel, including full-time and part-time employees, term
    employees and employees on leave. During 2005 and 2006, we
    increased the number of our employees, both as part of
    significantly improving our accounting practices, risk
    management, internal controls and corporate governance, and as
    appropriate to complete the restatement of our previously issued
    consolidated financial statements. As of October 31, 2006,
    we employed approximately 6,400 personnel, including full-time
    and part-time employees, term employees and employees on leave.

WHERE YOU
    CAN FIND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  

We file reports, proxy statements and other information with the
    SEC. Our Web site address is
     www.fanniemae.com, 
    and we make available free of charge through our Web site our
    annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and all other SEC reports and amendments to those reports as
    soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the
    material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Materials that we file
    with the SEC are also available from the SEC s Web site,
    www.sec.gov. In addition, these materials may be inspected,
    without charge, and copies may be obtained at prescribed rates,
    at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
    Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information
    on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
    at
     1-800-SEC-0330. 
    You may also request copies of any filing from us, at no cost,
    by telephone at
     (202) 752-7000 
    or by mail at 3900 Wisconsin Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20016.

Effective March 31, 2003, we voluntarily registered our
    common stock with the SEC under Section 12(g) of the
    Exchange Act. Our common stock, as well as the debt, preferred
    stock and mortgage-backed securities we issue, are exempt from
    registration under the Securities Act of 1933 and are
     exempted  securities under the 1934 Act. The
    voluntary registration of our common stock does not affect the
    exempt status of the debt, equity and mortgage-backed securities
    that we issue.

With regard to OFHEO s regulation of our activities, you
    may obtain materials from OFHEO s Web site, www.ofheo.gov.
    These materials include the September 2004 interim report of
    OFHEO s findings of its special examination and the May
    2006 final report on its findings.

We are providing our Web site address and the Web site addresses
    of the SEC and OFHEO solely for your information. Information
    appearing on our Web site or on the SEC s Web site or
    OFHEO s Web site is not incorporated into this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    except as specifically stated in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

32

Table of Contents   

FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS  

This report contains forward-looking statements, which are
    statements about matters that are not historical or current
    facts. In addition, our senior management may from time to time
    make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors,
    the news media and others. Forward-looking statements often
    include words such as  expects, 
     anticipates,   intends,   plans, 
     believes,   seeks,   estimates, 
     will,   would,   should, 
     could,   may,  or similar words. Among the
    forward-looking statements in this report are statements
    relating to:

our intent to submit an updated business plan to OFHEO in early
    2007 that may include a request for modest growth in our
    mortgage portfolio;

our expectations regarding industry and economic trends,
    including our expectations that:

growth in total U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding
    will continue at a slower pace in 2007, as the housing market
    continues to cool and home price gains moderate further or
    decline modestly;

the continuation of positive demographic trends, such as stable
    household formation rates, will help mitigate the slowdown in
    the growth in residential mortgage debt outstanding, but are
    unlikely to completely offset the slowdown in the short- to
    medium-term;

there is a possibility of a modest decline in national home
    prices in 2007;

our belief that demographic factors (such as stable household
    formation rates, a positive age structure of the population for
    homebuying and rising homeownership rates due to the high level
    of immigration over the past 25 years) that suggest a
    fundamentally strong mortgage market will support continued
    long-term demand for new capital to finance the substantial and
    sustained housing finance needs of American homebuyers;

our credit losses will increase and serious delinquencies may
    trend upward, as a result of the sharp decline in the rate of
    home price appreciation during 2006 and the possibility of
    modest home price declines in 2007;

our expectation that we will have finalized and substantially
    completed implementation of new policies and procedures to
    strengthen risk management practices relating to AD&C
    business by December 2006;

our expectation that, when we expect to earn returns greater
    than our cost of equity capital, we generally will be an active
    purchaser of mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities, and
    that when few opportunities exist to earn returns above our cost
    of equity capital, we generally will be a less active purchaser,
    and may be a net seller, of mortgage loans and mortgage-related
    securities;

our expectation that we will be an active purchaser of less
    liquid forms of mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities
    even in periods of high market demand for mortgage assets;

our expectation that private-label issuers of mortgage-related
    securities will continue to provide significant competition for
    our Single-Family and HCD businesses;

our belief that major elements of the restatement, including our
    comprehensive review of our accounting policies and practices,
    will contribute to a more expeditious completion of financial
    statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006;

our belief that the estimated fair value of our derivatives may
    fluctuate substantially from period to period because of changes
    in interest rates, expected interest rate volatility and our
    derivative activity;

our expectation that, based on the composition of our
    derivatives, we generally expect to report decreases in the
    aggregate fair value of our derivatives as interest rates
    decrease;

our expectation that, as a result of the variety of ways in
    which we record financial instruments in our consolidated
    financial statements, our earnings will vary, perhaps
    substantially, from period to period and result in volatility in
    our stockholders  equity and regulatory capital;

33

Table of Contents   

our expectation that we will experience high levels of period to
    period volatility in our financial results as part of our normal
    business activities, primarily due to changes in market
    conditions that result in periodic fluctuations in the estimated
    fair value of our derivatives;

our expectation of a reduction in our net interest income and
    net interest yield in 2005 and 2006, due to the decrease in the
    volume of our interest-earning assets as well as in the spread
    between the average yield on these assets and our borrowing
    costs since year-end 2004;

our expectation that unrealized gains and losses on trading
    securities will fluctuate each period with changes in volumes,
    interest rates and market prices;

our expectation that tax credits and net operating losses
    resulting from our investments in LIHTC partnerships will grow
    in the future, which is likely to reduce our effective tax rate,
    and that it is more likely than not that the results of future
    operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize
    the entire tax benefit;

our belief that the guaranty fee income generated from future
    business activity will largely replace any guaranty fee income
    lost as a result of mortgage prepayments;

our expectation that loans that permit a borrower to defer
    principal or interest payments, such as negative-amortizing and
    interest-only loans, will default more often than traditional
    mortgage loans;

our belief that our short-term and long-term funding needs and
    uses of cash in 2007 will remain generally consistent with
    current needs and uses, and that our sources of liquidity will
    remain adequate to meet both our short-term and long-term
    funding needs in 2007;

our expectation that, over the long term, our funding needs and
    sources of liquidity will remain relatively consistent with
    current needs and sources;

our intent to consider an increase in our issuance of debt in
    future years, if we decide to increase our purchase of mortgage
    assets following the modification or expiration of the current
    limitation on the size of our mortgage portfolio;

our expectation that the aggregate estimated fair value of our
    derivatives will decline and result in derivative losses if
    long-term interest rates decline;

our expectation that the outcome of the current FASB assessment
    of what activities a QSPE may perform might affect the entities
    we consolidate in future periods;

our estimate that we will complete testing of most of our newly
    implemented internal controls and remediate most of our
    remaining material weaknesses in connection with the filing of
    our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2006, which we will not
    file on a timely basis;

our expectation that the continued downturn in the manufactured
    housing sector will result in the recognition of additional
    impairment on our investments in manufactured housing securities;

our expectation that there will not be any change in our ability
    to borrow funds through the issuance of debt securities in the
    capital markets in the foreseeable future;

our expectation that our internal control environment will
    continue to be modified and enhanced in order to enable us to
    file periodic reports with the SEC on a current basis in the
    future;

our intention to continue to make significant adjustments to our
    mortgage loan sourcing and purchase strategies in an effort to
    meet HUD s increased housing goals and subgoals;

our expectation that the Compensation Committee and the Board
    will review the performance shares program and determine the
    appropriate approach for settling our obligations with respect
    to the existing unpaid performance share cycles;

our intent that, in the event that we were required to make
    payments under Fannie Mae MBS guaranties, we would pursue
    recovery of these payments by exercising our rights to the
    collateral backing the underlying loans or through available
    credit enhancements (which includes all recourse with third
    parties and mortgage insurance);

34

Table of Contents   

our expectation that we will experience periodic fluctuations in
    the estimated fair value of our net assets due to changes in
    market conditions, including changes in interest rates, changes
    in relative spreads between our mortgage assets and debt, and
    changes in implied volatility;

our expectation that changes in implied volatility, mortgage OAS
    and debt OAS are the market conditions that will have the most
    significant impact on the fair value of our net assets;

our expectation that, based on market conditions and the
    composition of our consolidated balance sheets in 2005 and 2006,
    we will not experience the same level of increase in the
    estimated fair value of our net assets in 2005 and 2006 that we
    experienced in 2004;

our expectation that we will continue to incur significant
    administrative expenses in connection with complying with our
    remediation obligations, which will reduce our earnings for the
    years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006;

our estimate that, for 2006, our restatement and related
    regulatory costs will total approximately $850 million and
    costs attributable to or associated with the preparation of our
    consolidated financial statements and periodic SEC financial
    reports for periods subsequent to 2004 will total over
    $200 million;

our expectation that the costs associated with preparation of
    our post-2004 financial statements and periodic SEC reports will
    continue to have a substantial impact on administrative expenses
    until we are current in filing our periodic financial reports
    with the SEC;

our belief that our administrative expenses for 2007 will be
    comparable to those for 2006;

our expectation that the reduction in the size of our mortgage
    portfolio beginning in 2005 will contribute to significantly
    reduced net interest income for the years ended
    December 31, 2005 and 2006, compared to the years ended
    December 31, 2004 and 2003;

our expectation that we will report significantly lower losses
    from our risk management derivatives in 2005 and 2006, relative
    to the losses reported in 2004;

our belief that we will continue to work on improving our
    internal controls and procedures relating to the management of
    operational risk; and

descriptions of assumptions underlying or relating to any of the
    foregoing.

Forward-looking statements reflect our management s
    expectations or predictions of future conditions, events or
    results based on various assumptions and management s
    estimates of trends and economic factors in the markets in which
    we are active, as well as our business plans. They are not
    guarantees of future performance. By their nature,
    forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
    uncertainties. Our actual results and financial condition may
    differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and
    financial condition indicated in these forward-looking
    statements. There are a number of factors that could cause
    actual conditions, events or results to differ materially from
    those described in the forward-looking statements contained in
    this report. A discussion of factors that could cause actual
    conditions, events or results to differ materially from those
    expressed in any forward-looking statements appears in
     Item 1A Risk Factors. 

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
    forward-looking statements in this report or that we make from
    time to time, and to consider carefully the factors discussed in
     Item 1A Risk Factors  in evaluating these
    forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are
    representative only as of the date they are made, and we
    undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement
    as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

GLOSSARY
    OF TERMS USED IN THIS REPORT  

Terms used in this report have the following meanings, unless
    the context indicates otherwise.

Agency issuers   refers to the
    government-sponsored enterprises Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as
    well as Ginnie Mae.

Alt-A mortgage   refers to a mortgage loan
    underwritten using more liberal standards such as higher
    loan-to-value ratios and less documentation of borrower income
    or assets.

35

Table of Contents   

ARM  or  adjustable-rate mortgage 
     refers to a mortgage loan with an interest rate that adjusts
    periodically over the life of the mortgage based on changes in a
    specified index.

Book of business   refers to the sum of:
    (1) the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities we hold in our mortgage portfolio
    and (2) the unpaid principal balance of Fannie Mae MBS held
    by third parties.

Business volume   refers to both the unpaid
    principal balance of the mortgage loans and mortgage-related
    securities we purchase for our mortgage portfolio in a given
    period and the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage loans we
    securitize into Fannie Mae MBS that are acquired by third
    parties in such period.

Charter Act   or   our charter 
     refers to the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter
    Act, 12 U.S.C.  1716  et seq. 

Conforming mortgage   refers to a conventional
    single-family mortgage loan with an original principal balance
    that is equal to or less than the applicable conforming loan
    limit, which is the applicable maximum original principal
    balance for a mortgage loan that we are permitted by our charter
    to purchase or securitize. The conforming loan limit is
    established each year by OFHEO based on the national average
    price of a one-family residence. The current conforming loan
    limit for a one-family residence in most geographic areas is
    $417,000.

Conventional mortgage   refers to a mortgage
    loan that is not guaranteed or insured by the
    U.S. government or its agencies, such as the VA, FHA or RHS.

Conventional single-family mortgage credit book of
    business   refers to the sum of the unpaid principal
    balance of: (1) the conventional single-family mortgage
    loans we hold in our investment portfolio; (2) the Fannie
    Mae MBS and non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related securities backed by
    conventional single-family mortgage loans we hold in our
    investment portfolio; (3) Fannie Mae MBS backed by
    conventional single-family mortgage loans that are held by third
    parties; and (4) credit enhancements that we provide on
    conventional single-family mortgage assets.

Core capital   refers to a regulatory measure
    of our capital that represents the sum of the stated value of
    our outstanding common stock (common stock less treasury stock),
    the stated value of our outstanding non-cumulative perpetual
    preferred stock, our paid-in capital and our retained earnings,
    as determined in accordance with GAAP.

Credit enhancement   refers to a method to
    reduce credit risk by requiring collateral, letters of credit,
    mortgage insurance, corporate guaranties, or other agreements to
    provide an entity with some assurance that it will be
    recompensed to some degree in the event of a financial loss.

Critical capital requirement   refers to the
    amount of core capital below which we would be classified by
    OFHEO as critically undercapitalized and generally would be
    required to be placed in conservatorship. Our critical capital
    requirement is generally equal to the sum of: (1) 1.25% of
    on-balance sheet assets; (2) 0.25% of the unpaid principal
    balance of outstanding Fannie Mae MBS held by third parties; and
    (3) up to 0.25% of other off-balance sheet obligations.

Delinquency   refers to an instance in which a
    principal or interest payment on a mortgage loan has not been
    made in full by the due date.

Derivative   refers to a financial instrument
    that derives its value based on changes in an underlying, such
    as security or commodity prices, interest rates, currency rates
    or other financial indices. Examples of derivatives include
    futures, options and swaps.

Duration   refers to the sensitivity of the
    value of a security to changes in interest rates. It can be
    calculated for non-callable securities as the weighted-average
    maturity of a security s future cash flows, both principal
    and interest, where the present values of the cash flows serve
    as the weights.

Fannie Mae mortgage-backed securities   or
      Fannie Mae MBS   generally refer to those
    mortgage-related securities that we issue and with respect to
    which we guarantee to the related trusts that we will supplement
    mortgage loan collections as required to permit timely payment
    of principal and interest due on the related

36

Table of Contents   

Fannie Mae MBS. We also issue some forms of mortgage-related
    securities for which we do not provide this guaranty. The term
     Fannie Mae MBS  refers to all forms of
    mortgage-related securities that we issue, including
    single-class Fannie Mae MBS and multi-class Fannie Mae
    MBS.

Fixed-rate mortgage   refers to a mortgage loan
    with an interest rate that does not change during the entire
    term of the loan.

GAAP   refers to generally accepted accounting
    principles in the United States.

GSEs   refers to government-sponsored
    enterprises such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home
    Loan Banks.

HUD   refers to the Department of Housing and
    Urban Development.

Implied volatility   refers to the
    market s expectation of potential changes in interest rates.

Interest-only loan   refers to a mortgage loan
    that allows the borrower to pay only the monthly interest due,
    and none of the principal, for a fixed term. After the end of
    that term, typically five to ten years, the borrower can choose
    to refinance, pay the principal balance in a lump sum, or begin
    paying the monthly scheduled principal due on the loan, which
    results in a higher monthly payment at that time. Interest-only
    loans can be adjustable-rate or fixed-rate mortgage loans.

Interest rate swap   refers to a transaction
    between two parties in which each agrees to exchange payments
    tied to different interest rates or indices for a specified
    period of time, generally based on a notional principal amount.
    An interest rate swap is a type of derivative.

Intermediate-term mortgage   refers to a
    mortgage loan with a contractual maturity at the time of
    purchase equal to or less than 15 years.

LIHTC partnerships   refer to low-income
    housing tax credit limited partnerships or limited liability
    companies. For a description of these partnerships, refer to
     Business Segments Housing and Community
    Development Community Investment Group  above.

Liquid assets   refers to our holdings of
    non-mortgage investments, cash and cash equivalents, and funding
    agreements with our lenders, including advances to lenders and
    repurchase agreements.

Loans,   mortgage loans   and
      mortgages   refer to both whole loans and loan
    participations, secured by residential real estate, cooperative
    shares or by manufactured housing units.

Loan-to-value 
    ratio   or   LTV ratio   refers to the
    ratio, at any point in time, of the unpaid principal amount of a
    borrower s mortgage loan to the value of the property that
    serves as collateral for the loan (expressed as a percentage).

Minimum capital requirement   refers to the
    amount of core capital below which we would be classified by
    OFHEO as undercapitalized. Our minimum capital requirement is
    generally equal to the sum of: (1) 2.50% of on-balance
    sheet assets; (2) 0.45% of the unpaid principal balance of
    outstanding Fannie Mae MBS held by third parties; and
    (3) up to 0.45% of other off-balance sheet obligations.

Mortgage assets,   when referring to our
    assets, refers to both mortgage loans and mortgage-related
    securities we hold in our portfolio.

Mortgage credit book of business   refers to
    the sum of the unpaid principal balance of: (1) the
    mortgage loans we hold in our investment portfolio; (2) the
    Fannie Mae MBS and non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related securities we
    hold in our investment portfolio; (3) Fannie Mae MBS that
    are held by third parties; and (4) credit enhancements that
    we provide on mortgage assets.

Mortgage-related securities   or
      mortgage-backed securities   refer generally to
    securities that represent beneficial interests in pools of
    mortgage loans or other mortgage-related securities. These
    securities may be issued by Fannie Mae or by others.

37

Table of Contents   

Multifamily   mortgage loan refers to a
    mortgage loan secured by a property containing five or more
    residential dwelling units.

Multifamily mortgage credit book of business 
     refers to the sum of the unpaid principal balance of:
    (1) the multifamily mortgage loans we hold in our
    investment portfolio; (2) the Fannie Mae MBS and non-Fannie
    Mae mortgage-related securities backed by multifamily mortgage
    loans we hold in our investment portfolio; (3) Fannie Mae
    MBS backed by multifamily mortgage loans that are held by third
    parties; and (4) credit enhancements that we provide on
    multifamily mortgage assets.

Negative-amortizing 
    loan   refers to a mortgage loan that allows the
    borrower to make monthly payments that are less than the
    interest actually accrued for the period. The unpaid interest is
    added to the principal balance of the loan, which increases the
    outstanding loan balance.
     Negative-amortizing 
    loans are typically adjustable-rate mortgage loans.

Notional principal amount   refers to the
    hypothetical dollar amount in an interest rate swap transaction
    on which exchanged payments are based. The notional principal
    amount in an interest rate swap transaction generally is not
    paid or received by either party to the transaction and is
    typically significantly greater than the potential market or
    credit loss that could result from such transaction.

OFHEO   refers to the Office of Federal Housing
    Enterprise Oversight, our safety and soundness regulator.

Option-adjusted spread   or
      OAS   refers to the incremental expected return
    between a security, loan or derivative contract and a benchmark
    yield curve (typically, U.S. Treasury securities, LIBOR and
    swaps, or agency debt securities). The OAS provides explicit
    consideration of the variability in the security s cash
    flows across multiple interest rate scenarios resulting from any
    options embedded in the security, such as prepayment options.
    For example, the OAS of a mortgage that can be prepaid by the
    homeowner is typically lower than a nominal yield spread to the
    same benchmark because the OAS reflects the exercise of the
    prepayment option by the homeowner, which lowers the expected
    return of the mortgage investor. In other words, OAS for
    mortgage loans is a risk-adjusted spread after consideration of
    the prepayment risk in mortgage loans. The market convention for
    mortgages is typically to quote their OAS to swaps. The OASs of
    our funding and hedging instruments are also frequently quoted
    to swaps. The OAS of our net assets is therefore the combination
    of these two spreads to swaps and is the option-adjusted spread
    between our assets and our funding and hedging instruments.

Outstanding Fannie Mae MBS   refers to the
    total unpaid principal balance of Fannie Mae MBS that is held by
    third-party investors and held in our mortgage portfolio,
    without reflecting the impact of the consolidation of variable
    interest entities.

Private-label issuers   or   non-agency
    issuers   refers to issuers of mortgage-related
    securities other than agency issuers Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and
    Ginnie Mae.

Private-label securities   or
      non-agency securities   refers to
    mortgage-related securities issued by entities other than agency
    issuers Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.

Qualifying subordinated debt   refers to our
    subordinated debt that contains an interest deferral feature
    that requires us to defer the payment of interest for up to five
    years if either: (1) our core capital is below 125% of our
    critical capital requirement; or (2) our core capital is
    below our minimum capital requirement and the
    U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, acting on our request,
    exercises his or her discretionary authority pursuant to
    Section 304(c) of the Charter Act to purchase our debt
    obligations.

REO   refers to real-estate owned by Fannie
    Mae, generally because we have foreclosed on the property or
    obtained the property through a deed in lieu of foreclosure.

Reverse mortgage   refers to a financial tool
    that provides seniors with funds from the equity in their homes.
    Generally, no borrower payments are made on a reverse mortgage
    until the borrower moves or the property is sold. The final
    repayment obligation is designed not to exceed the proceeds from
    the sale of the home.

Risk-based capital requirement   refers to the
    amount of capital necessary to absorb losses throughout a
    hypothetical ten-year period marked by severely adverse
    circumstances. Refer to
     Item 7 MD Liquidity

38

Table of Contents   

and Capital Management Capital Management Capital
    Adequacy Requirements Statutory Risk-Based Capital
    Requirements  for a detailed definition of our statutory
    risk-based capital requirement.

Secondary mortgage market   refers to the
    financial market in which residential mortgages and
    mortgage-related securities are bought and sold.

Single-family   mortgage loan refers to a
    mortgage loan secured by a property containing four or fewer
    residential dwelling units.

Single-family mortgage credit book of business 
     refers to the sum of the unpaid principal balance of:
    (1) the single-family mortgage loans we hold in our
    investment portfolio; (2) the Fannie Mae MBS and non-Fannie
    Mae mortgage-related securities backed by single-family mortgage
    loans we hold in our investment portfolio; (3) Fannie Mae
    MBS backed by single-family mortgage loans that are held by
    third parties; and (4) credit enhancements that we provide
    on single-family mortgage assets.

Sub-prime 
    mortgage   refers to a mortgage loan underwritten using
    lower credit standards than those used in the prime lending
    market.

Swaptions   refers to options on interest rate
    swaps in the form of contracts granting an option to one party
    and creating a corresponding commitment from the counterparty to
    enter into specified interest rate swaps in the future.
    Swaptions are usually traded in the over-the-counter market and
    not through an exchange.

Total capital   refers to a regulatory measure
    of our capital that represents the sum of core capital plus the
    total allowance for loan losses and reserve for guaranty losses
    in connection with Fannie Mae MBS, less the specific loss
    allowance (that is, the allowance required on
    individually-impaired loans).

Yield curve   or   shape of the yield
    curve   refers to a graph showing the relationship
    between the yields on bonds of the same credit quality with
    different maturities. For example, a  normal  or
    positive sloping yield curve exists when long-term bonds have
    higher yields than short-term bonds. A  flat  yield
    curve exists when yields are relatively the same for short-term
    and long-term bonds. A  steep  yield curve exists when
    yields on long-term bonds are significantly higher than on
    short-term bonds. An  inverted  yield curve, which is
    rare, exists when yields on long-term bonds are lower than
    yields on short-term bonds.

Item 1A.    

Risk
    Factors  

This section identifies specific risks that should be considered
    carefully in evaluating our business. The risks described in
     Company Risks  are specific to us and our business,
    while those described in  Risks Relating to Our
    Industry  relate to the industry in which we operate. Any
    of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of
    operations or financial condition. Although we believe that
    these risks represent the material risks relevant to us, our
    business and our industry, new material risks may emerge that we
    are currently unable to predict. As a result, this description
    of the risks that affect our business and our industry is not
    exhaustive. The risks discussed below could cause our actual
    results to differ materially from our historical results or the
    results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained
    in this report.

COMPANY
    RISKS  

Material
    weaknesses and other control deficiencies relating to our
    internal controls could result in errors in our reported results
    and could have a material adverse effect on our operations,
    investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of
    our securities.   

Management s assessment of our internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 identified
    numerous material weaknesses in our control environment, our
    application of GAAP, our financial reporting process, and our
    information technology applications and infrastructure as of
    December 31, 2004. Further, we identified additional
    material weaknesses in the independent model review process,
    treasury and trading operations, pricing and independent price
    verification processes, and wire transfer controls. In addition,
    following their separate investigations of our business and
    accounting practices, OFHEO and the law firm of Paul Weiss each
    issued reports identifying significant problems and deficiencies
    in our prior processes for corporate governance and internal
    controls. Until they are remediated, these material weaknesses
    and other

39

Table of Contents   

control deficiencies could lead to errors in our reported
    financial results and could have a material adverse effect on
    our operations, investor confidence in our business and the
    trading prices of our securities.

As described in  Item 9A Controls and
    Procedures Remediation Activities and Changes in Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting,  we are currently in the
    process of remediating our identified material weaknesses;
    however, management will not make a final determination that we
    have completed our remediation of these material weaknesses
    until we have completed testing of our newly implemented
    internal controls. In addition, we have not filed our Quarterly
    Reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    for 2005 or 2006, or our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for 2005, and we are not able at this time to file our periodic
    SEC reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    and
     Form 10-K 
    on a timely basis. We believe that we will not have remediated
    the material weakness relating to our disclosure controls and
    procedures until we are able to file required reports with the
    SEC and the New York Stock Exchange on a timely basis.

In the future, we may identify further material weaknesses or
    significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial
    reporting that we have not discovered to date. In addition, we
    cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain adequate
    controls over our financial processes and reporting in the
    future.

Competition
    in the mortgage and financial services industries, and the need
    to develop, enhance and implement strategies to adapt to
    changing trends in the mortgage industry and capital markets,
    may adversely affect our business and earnings.   

Increasing Competition.   We compete to acquire
    mortgage loans for our mortgage portfolio or for securitization
    based on a number of factors, including our speed and
    reliability in closing transactions, our products and services,
    the liquidity of Fannie Mae MBS, our reputation and our pricing.
    We face increasing competition in the secondary mortgage market
    from other GSEs and from large commercial banks, savings and
    loan institutions, securities dealers, investment funds,
    insurance companies and other financial institutions. In
    addition, increasing consolidation within the financial services
    industry has created larger private financial institutions,
    which has increased pricing pressure. The recent decreased rate
    of growth in U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding in
    2006 also has increased competition in the secondary mortgage
    market by decreasing the number of new mortgage loans available
    for purchase. This increased competition may adversely affect
    our business and earnings.

Potential Decrease in Earnings Resulting from Changes in
    Industry Trends.   The manner in which we compete
    and the products for which we compete are affected by changing
    trends in our industry. If we do not effectively respond to
    these trends, or if our strategies to respond to these trends
    are not as successful as our prior business strategies, our
    business, earnings and total returns could be adversely
    affected. For example, in recent years, an increasing proportion
    of single-family mortgage loan originations has consisted of
    non-traditional mortgages such as interest-only mortgages,
     negative-amortizing 
    mortgages and sub-prime mortgages, and demand for traditional
     30-year 
    fixed-rate mortgages has decreased. We did not participate in
    large amounts of these non-traditional mortgages in 2004 and
    2005 because we determined that the pricing offered for these
    mortgages often was insufficient compensation for the additional
    credit risk associated with these mortgages. These trends and
    our decision not to participate in large amounts of these
    non-traditional mortgages contributed to a significant loss in
    our share of new single-family mortgage-related securities
    issuances to private-label issuers during this period, with our
    market share decreasing from 45.0% in 2003 to 29.2% in 2004 and
    23.5% in 2005.

We have modified and enhanced a number of our strategies as part
    of our ongoing efforts to adapt to recent changes in the
    industry. For example, our Capital Markets group focused on
    buying and holding mortgage assets to maturity prior to 2005.
    Beginning in 2005, however, in response to both our capital plan
    requirements and market conditions at that time, our Capital
    Markets group engaged in more active management of our portfolio
    through both purchases and sales of mortgage assets, with the
    dual goals of supporting our chartered purpose of providing
    liquidity to the secondary mortgage market and maximizing total
    returns. In addition, we have been working with our lender
    customers to support a broad range of mortgage products,
    including sub-prime products, while closely monitoring credit
    risk and pricing dynamics across the full spectrum of mortgage
    product types. We may not be able to execute successfully any
    new or enhanced strategies that we adopt. In

40

Table of Contents   

addition, these strategies may not increase our share of the
    secondary mortgage market, our revenues or our total returns.

The
    restatement of our consolidated financial statements and related
    events, including the lack of current financial and operating
    information about the company, have had, and likely will
    continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business and
    reputation.   

We have become subject to several significant risks since our
    announcement in December 2004 that we would restate our
    previously filed consolidated financial statements. This Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    which contains information for the years ended December 31,
    2004, 2003 and 2002, includes restated consolidated financial
    statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002,
    and is our first periodic report covering periods after
    June 30, 2004. Our need to restate our historical financial
    statements and the delay in producing both restated and more
    current consolidated financial statements has resulted in
    several risks to our business, as discussed in the following
    paragraphs.

Risks Relating to Lack of Current Information about our
    Business.   Material information about our current
    operating results and financial condition is unavailable because
    of the delay in filing our 2005 and 2006 annual and quarterly
    reports with the SEC. As a result, investors do not have access
    to full information about the current state of our business.
    When this information becomes available to investors, it may
    result in an adverse effect on the trading price of our common
    stock.

Risks Relating to Suspension and Delisting of Our Securities
    from the NYSE.   The delay in filing our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2005 with the SEC could
    cause the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, to commence
    suspension and delisting proceedings of our common stock. In
    addition, we expect that we will not be able to file our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 by its due date of
    March 1, 2007, which would be a separate violation of the
    NYSE s listing rules. If the NYSE were to delist our common
    stock it could result in a significant decline in the trading
    price, trading volume and liquidity of our common stock and
    could have a similar effect on our preferred stock listed on the
    NYSE. We also expect that the suspension and delisting of our
    common stock could lead to decreases in analyst coverage and
    market-making activity relating to our common stock, as well as
    reduced information about trading prices and volume.

Risks Associated with Pending Civil
    Litigation.   We are subject to pending civil
    litigation that, if decided against us, could require us to pay
    substantial judgments or settlement amounts or provide for other
    relief, as discussed in  Item 3 Legal
    Proceedings. 

Reputational Risks and Other Risks Relating to Negative
    Publicity.   We have been subject to continuing
    negative publicity as a result of our accounting restatement and
    related problems, which we believe have contributed to
    significant declines in the price of our common stock.
    Continuing negative publicity could increase our cost of funds
    and adversely affect our customer relationships and the trading
    price of our stock. Negative publicity associated with our
    accounting restatement and related problems also has resulted in
    increased regulatory and legislative scrutiny of our business.

Decrease in Common Stock Dividends and Limitation on Our
    Ability to Increase Our Dividend Payments.   In
    January 2005, in an effort to accelerate our achievement of a
    30% capital surplus over our minimum capital requirement as
    required by OFHEO, we reduced our previous quarterly common
    stock dividend rate by 50%, from $0.52 per share to
    $0.26 per share. Under our May 2006 consent order with
    OFHEO, we are required to continue to operate under the capital
    restoration plan approved by OFHEO in February 2005. Our consent
    order with OFHEO also requires us to provide OFHEO with prior
    notice of any planned dividend and a description of the
    rationale for its payment. In addition, our Board of Directors
    is not permitted to increase the dividend at any time if payment
    of the increased dividend would reduce our capital surplus to
    less than 30% above our minimum capital requirement. On
    December 6, 2006, the Board of Directors increased the
    quarterly common stock dividend to $0.40 per share.

41

Table of Contents   

Changes
    in interest rates could materially impact our financial
    condition and our earnings.   

We fund our operations primarily through the issuance of debt
    and invest our funds primarily in mortgage-related assets that
    permit the mortgage borrowers to prepay the mortgages at any
    time. These business activities expose us to market risk, which
    is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market conditions.
    Our most significant market risks are interest rate risk and
    option-adjusted spread risk. Interest rate risk is the risk of
    changes in our long-term earnings or in the value of our net
    assets due to changes in interest rates. Changes in interest
    rates affect both the value of our mortgage assets and
    prepayment rates on our mortgage loans. Changes in interest
    rates could have a material adverse impact on our business
    results and financial condition, particularly if actual
    conditions differ significantly from our expectations.

Our ability to manage interest rate risk depends on our ability
    to issue debt instruments with a range of maturities and other
    features at attractive rates and to engage in derivative
    transactions. We must exercise judgment in selecting the amount,
    type and mix of debt and derivative instruments that will most
    effectively manage our interest rate risk. The amount, type and
    mix of financial instruments we select may not offset possible
    future changes in the spread between our borrowing costs and the
    interest we earn on our mortgage assets. A discussion of how we
    manage interest rate risk is included in
     Item 7 MD Risk
    Management Interest Rate Risk Management and Other Market
    Risks. 

Option-adjusted spread risk is the risk that the option-adjusted
    spreads on mortgage assets relative to those on our funding and
    hedging instruments (referred to as the OAS of our net assets)
    may increase or decrease. These increases or decreases may be a
    result of market supply and demand dynamics, including credit
    pricing basis risk between our assets and swaps and between
    swaps and our funding and hedging instruments. A widening of the
    OAS of our net assets typically causes a decline in the fair
    value of the company. A narrowing of the OAS of our net assets
    will reduce our opportunities to acquire mortgage assets and
    therefore could have a material adverse effect on our future
    earnings and financial condition. We do not attempt to actively
    manage or hedge the impact of changes in
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS after we purchase mortgage assets, other than through asset
    monitoring and disposition.

We make significant use of business and financial models to
    manage risk, although we recognize that models are inherently
    imperfect predictors of actual results because they are based on
    assumptions about factors such as future loan demand, prepayment
    speeds and other factors that may overstate or understate future
    experience. Our business could be adversely affected if our
    models fail to produce reliable results.

We
    have several key lender customers and the loss of business
    volume from any one of these customers could adversely affect
    our business, market share and results of
    operations.   

Our ability to generate revenue from the purchase and
    securitization of mortgage loans depends on our ability to
    acquire a steady flow of mortgage loans from the originators of
    those loans. We acquire a significant portion of our
    single-family mortgage loans from several large mortgage
    lenders. During 2004, our top five lender customers accounted
    for a total of approximately 53% of our single-family business
    volumes (which refers to both single-family mortgage loans that
    we purchase for our mortgage portfolio and single-family
    mortgage loans that we securitize into Fannie Mae MBS), with our
    top customer accounting for approximately 26% of that amount.
    Accordingly, maintaining our current business relationships and
    business volumes with our top lender customers is critical to
    our business. If any of our key lender customers significantly
    reduces the volume of mortgage loans that the lender delivers to
    us, we could lose significant business volume that we might be
    unable to replace. The loss of business from any one of our key
    lender customers could adversely affect our business, market
    share and results of operations. In addition, a significant
    reduction in the volume of mortgage loans that we securitize
    could reduce the liquidity of Fannie Mae MBS, which in turn
    could have an adverse effect on their market value.

We are
    subject to credit risk relating to the mortgage loans that we
    purchase or that back our Fannie Mae MBS, and any resulting
    delinquencies and credit losses could adversely affect our
    financial condition and results of operations.   

Borrowers of mortgage loans that we purchase or that back our
    Fannie Mae MBS may fail to make the required payments of
    principal and interest on those loans, exposing us to the risk
    of credit losses. In addition,

42

Table of Contents   

due to the current competitive dynamics of the mortgage market,
    we have recently increased our purchase and securitization of
    mortgage loans that pose a higher credit risk, such as
     negative-amortizing 
    loans and interest-only loans. We also have increased the
    proportion of reduced documentation loans that we purchase or
    that back our Fannie Mae MBS.

For example, negative-amortizing adjustable-rate mortgages
    ( ARMs ) represented approximately 2% and 3%,
    respectively, of our conventional single-family business volumes
    (which refers to both conventional single-family mortgage loans
    we purchase for our mortgage portfolio and conventional
    single-family mortgage loans we securitize into Fannie Mae MBS)
    in 2004 and 2005, and approximately 4% for the first nine months
    of 2006. Interest-only mortgage loans represented approximately
    5% and 10%, respectively, of our conventional single-family
    business volumes in 2004 and 2005, and approximately 15% for the
    first nine months of 2006. We estimate that
     negative-amortizing 
    ARMs and interest-only loans represented approximately 2% and
    6%, respectively, of our conventional single-family mortgage
    credit book of business as of September 30, 2006.

The increase in our exposure to credit risk resulting from the
    increase in these loans with higher credit risk may cause us to
    experience increased delinquencies and credit losses in the
    future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and
    results of operations. A discussion of how we manage mortgage
    credit risk and a description of the risk characteristics of our
    mortgage credit book of business is included in
     Item 7 MD Risk Management Credit
    Risk Management Mortgage Credit Risk Management. 

We
    depend on our institutional counterparties to provide services
    that are critical to our business, and our financial condition
    and results of operations may be adversely affected by defaults
    by our institutional counterparties.   

We face the risk that our institutional counterparties may fail
    to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. Our primary
    exposure to institutional counterparties risk is with our
    mortgage insurers, mortgage servicers, lender customers, issuers
    of investments held in our liquid investment portfolio, dealers
    that commit to sell mortgage pools or loans to us, and
    derivatives counterparties. The products or services that these
    counterparties provide are critical to our business operations
    and a default by a counterparty with significant obligations to
    us could adversely affect our financial condition and results of
    operations. A discussion of how we manage institutional
    counterparty credit risk is included in
     Item 7 MD Risk Management Credit
    Risk Management Institutional Counterparty Credit Risk
    Management. 

Mortgage Insurers.   A mortgage insurer could
    fail to fulfill its obligation to reimburse us for claims under
    our mortgage insurance policies, which would require us to bear
    the full loss of the borrower default on the mortgage loans. As
    of December 31, 2004, we were the beneficiary of primary
    mortgage insurance coverage on $285.4 billion of
    single-family loans held in our portfolio or underlying Fannie
    Mae MBS, which represented approximately 13% of our
    single-family mortgage credit book of business.

Lender Risk-Sharing Agreements.   We enter into
    risk-sharing agreements with some of our lender customers that
    require them to reimburse us for losses under the loans that are
    the subject of those agreements. A lender s default in its
    obligation to reimburse us could decrease our net income.

Mortgage Servicers.   One or more of our
    mortgage servicers could fail to fulfill its mortgage loan
    servicing obligations, which include collecting payments from
    borrowers under the mortgage loans that we own or that are part
    of the collateral pools supporting our Fannie Mae MBS, paying
    taxes and insurance on the properties secured by the mortgage
    loans, monitoring and reporting loan delinquencies, and
    repurchasing any loans that are subsequently found to have not
    met our underwriting criteria. In that event, we could incur
    credit losses associated with loan delinquencies or penalties
    for late payment of taxes and insurance on the properties that
    secure the mortgage loans serviced by that mortgage servicer. In
    addition, we likely would be forced to incur the costs necessary
    to replace the defaulting mortgage servicer. These events would
    result in a decrease in our net income. As of December 31,
    2004, our ten largest single-family mortgage servicers serviced
    71% of our single-family mortgage credit book of business, and
    the largest single-family mortgage servicer serviced 21% of the
    single-family mortgage credit book of business. Accordingly, the
    effect of a default by one of these servicers could result in a
    more significant decrease in our net income than if our loans
    were serviced by a more diverse group of servicers.

43

Table of Contents   

Agreements with Dealers.   We enter into
    agreements with dealers under which they commit to deliver pools
    of mortgages to us at an agreed-upon date and price. We commit
    to sell Fannie Mae MBS based in part on these commitments. If a
    dealer defaults in its commitment obligation, it could cause us
    to default in our obligation to deliver the Fannie Mae MBS on
    our commitment date or may force us to replace the loans at a
    higher cost in order to meet our commitment.

Liquid Investment Portfolio Issuers.   The
    primary credit exposure associated with investments held in our
    liquid investment portfolio is that the issuers of these
    investments will not repay principal and interest in accordance
    with the contractual terms. The failure of these issuers to make
    these payments could have a material adverse effect on our
    business results.

Derivatives Counterparties.   If a derivatives
    counterparty defaults on payments due to us, we may need to
    enter into a replacement derivative contract with a different
    counterparty at a higher cost or we may be unable to obtain a
    replacement contract. As of December 31, 2004, we had 23
    interest rate and foreign currency derivatives counterparties.
    Eight of these counterparties accounted for approximately 83% of
    the total outstanding notional amount of our derivatives
    contracts, and each of these eight counterparties accounted for
    between approximately 7% and 14% of the total outstanding
    notional amount. The insolvency of one of our largest
    derivatives counterparties combined with an adverse move in the
    market before we are able to transfer or replace the contracts
    could adversely affect our financial condition and results of
    operations. A discussion of how we manage the credit risk posed
    by our derivatives transactions and a detailed description of
    our derivatives credit exposure is contained in
     Item 7 MD Risk Management Credit
    Risk Management Institutional Counterparty Credit Risk
    Management Derivatives Counterparties. 

Our
    ability to operate our business, meet our obligations and
    generate net interest income depends primarily on our ability to
    issue substantial amounts of debt frequently and at attractive
    rates.   

The issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities in the
    domestic and international capital markets is our primary source
    of funding for purchasing assets for our mortgage portfolio and
    repaying or refinancing our existing debt. Moreover, our primary
    source of revenue is the net interest income we earn from the
    difference, or spread, between our borrowing costs and the
    return that we receive on our mortgage assets. Our ability to
    obtain funds through the issuance of debt, and the cost at which
    we are able to obtain these funds, depends on many factors,
    including:

our corporate and regulatory structure, including our status as
    a GSE;

legislative or regulatory actions relating to our business,
    including any actions that would affect our GSE status;

rating agency actions relating to our credit ratings;

our financial results and changes in our financial condition;

significant events relating to our business or industry;

the public s perception of the risks to and financial
    prospects of our business or industry;

the preferences of debt investors;

the breadth of our investor base;

prevailing conditions in the capital markets;

interest rate fluctuations; and

general economic conditions in the United States and abroad.

In addition, the other GSEs, such as Freddie Mac and the Federal
    Home Loan Banks, also issue significant amounts of
    AAA-rated agency debt to fund their operations, which may
    negatively impact the prices we are able to obtain for these
    securities.

Approximately 47% of the Benchmark Notes we have issued in 2006
    were purchased by
     non-U.S. investors, 
    including both private institutions and
     non-U.S. governments 
    and government agencies. Accordingly, a significant reduction in
    the purchase of our debt securities by
     non-U.S. investors 
    could have a material adverse effect on both the amount of debt
    securities we are able to issue and the price we are able to
    obtain for these securities. Many of the factors that affect the
    amount of our securities that foreign investors purchase,
    including economic

44

Table of Contents   

downturns in the countries where these investors are located,
    currency exchange rates and changes in domestic or foreign
    fiscal or monetary policies, are outside our control.

If we are unable to issue debt securities at attractive rates in
    amounts sufficient to operate our business and meet our
    obligations, it would have a material adverse effect on our
    liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. A
    description of how we obtain funding for our business by issuing
    debt securities in the capital markets is contained in
     Item 7 MD Liquidity and Capital
    Management Liquidity Debt Funding.  For a
    description of how we manage liquidity risk, see
      Item 7 MD Liquidity and Capital
    Management Liquidity Liquidity Risk Management. 

On June 13, 2006, the U.S. Department of the Treasury
    announced that it would undertake a review of its process for
    approving our issuances of debt, which could adversely impact
    our flexibility in issuing debt securities in the future. We
    cannot predict whether the outcome of this review will
    materially impact our current business activities.

A
    decrease in our current credit ratings would have an adverse
    effect on our ability to issue debt on acceptable terms, which
    could adversely affect our liquidity and our results of
    operations.   

Our borrowing costs and our broad access to the debt capital
    markets depends in large part on our high credit ratings. Our
    senior unsecured debt currently has the highest credit rating
    available from Moody s Investors Service
    ( Moody s ), Standard & Poor s, a
    division of The McGraw-Hill Companies ( Standard &
    Poor s ), and Fitch Ratings ( Fitch ). These
    ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the
    rating agencies. Any reduction in our credit ratings could
    increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital
    markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in
    derivative contracts and other borrowing arrangements. A
    substantial reduction in our credit ratings would reduce our
    earnings and materially adversely affect our liquidity, our
    ability to conduct our normal business operations and our
    competitive position. A description of our credit ratings and
    current ratings outlook is included in
     Item 7 MD Liquidity and Capital
    Management Liquidity Credit Ratings and Risk
    Ratings. 

Our
    business is subject to laws and regulations that may restrict
    our ability to compete optimally. In addition, legislation that
    would change the regulation of our business could, if enacted,
    reduce our competitiveness and adversely affect our results of
    operations and financial condition. The impact of existing
    regulation on our business is significant, and both existing and
    future regulation may adversely affect our
    business.   

As a federally chartered corporation, we are subject to the
    limitations imposed by the Charter Act, extensive regulation,
    supervision and examination by OFHEO and HUD, and regulation by
    other federal agencies, such as the U.S. Department of the
    Treasury and the SEC. We are also subject to many laws and
    regulations that affect our business, including those regarding
    taxation and privacy. A description of the laws and regulations
    that affect our business is contained in
     Item 1 Business Our Charter and Regulation
    of Our Activities. 

Regulation by OFHEO.   OFHEO has broad authority
    to regulate our operations and management in order to ensure our
    financial safety and soundness. For example, in order to meet
    our capital plan requirements in 2005, we were required to make
    significant changes to our business in 2005, including reducing
    the size of our mortgage portfolio and reducing our quarterly
    common stock dividend by 50%. Pursuant to our May 2006 consent
    order with OFHEO, we may not increase our net mortgage portfolio
    assets above $727.75 billion, except in limited
    circumstances at OFHEO s discretion. We expect that this
    reduction in the size of our mortgage portfolio beginning in
    2005 will contribute to significantly reduced net interest
    income for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, as
    compared to the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. In
    addition, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur
    significant administrative expenses in connection with complying
    with our remediation obligations, which will reduce our earnings
    for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006. If we fail
    to comply with any of our agreements with OFHEO or with any
    OFHEO regulation, we may incur penalties and could be subject to
    further restrictions on our activities and operations, or to
    investigation and enforcement actions by OFHEO.

Regulation by HUD and Charter Act
    Limitations.   HUD supervises our compliance with
    the Charter Act, which defines our permissible business
    activities. For example, our business is limited to the
    U.S. housing finance sector and we may not purchase loans
    in excess of our conforming loan limits, which are currently
    $417,000 for a one-family mortgage loan in most geographic
    regions and may be lower in future periods

45

Table of Contents   

subsequent to 2007. As a result of these limitations on our
    ability to diversify our operations, our financial condition and
    earnings depend almost entirely on conditions in a single sector
    of the U.S. economy, specifically, the U.S. housing
    market. Our substantial reliance on conditions in the
    U.S. housing market may adversely affect the investment
    returns we are able to generate. In addition, the Secretary of
    HUD must approve any new Fannie Mae conventional mortgage
    program that is significantly different from those approved or
    engaged in prior to the enactment of the 1992 Act. As a result,
    we have only limited ability to respond quickly to changes in
    market conditions by offering new programs in response to these
    changes. These restrictions on our business operations may
    negatively affect our ability to compete successfully with other
    companies in the mortgage industry from time to time, which in
    turn may adversely affect our market share, our earnings and our
    financial condition. As described below under  To meet
    HUD s new housing goals and subgoals, we enter into
    transactions that may reduce our profitability,  we are
    also subject to housing goals established by HUD, which require
    that a specified portion of our business relate to the purchase
    or securitization of mortgages for low- and moderate-income
    housing, underserved areas and special affordable housing.
    Meeting these goals may adversely affect our profitability.

Legislative Proposals.   Legislative proposals
    currently being considered by the U.S. Congress, if enacted
    into law, could materially restrict our operations and adversely
    affect our business and our earnings. During 2005, several bills
    were introduced in Congress that propose to change the
    regulatory framework under which we, Freddie Mac and the Federal
    Home Loan Banks operate. The Senate Committee on Banking,
    Housing and Urban Affairs and the U.S. House of
    Representatives each advanced GSE regulatory oversight
    legislation in 2005 during the first session of the
    109th Congress. On October 26, 2005, the House of
    Representatives passed a bill and on July 28, 2005, the
    Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs passed a
    bill, which has not yet been brought to the floor of the Senate
    for a vote. While the House and Senate bills differ in a number
    of respects, both bills would affect us and other GSEs by
    significantly altering the scope of:

our authorized and permissible activities;

the potential level of our required capital;

the size and composition of our mortgage investment portfolio (a
    potential limitation in the House bill and a specific limitation
    in the Senate bill);

the levels of affordable housing goals; and

the process by which any new activities and programs would be
    approved and the extent of regulatory oversight.

In addition, the House bill would require Fannie Mae and Freddie
    Mac to contribute a portion of their profits to a fund to
    support affordable housing.

This legislation could materially adversely affect our business
    and earnings. We cannot predict the prospects for the enactment,
    timing or content of any legislation, the form any enacted
    legislation will take or its impact on our financial condition
    or results of operations.

Changes in Existing Regulations or Regulatory
    Practices.   Our business and earnings could also
    be materially affected by changes in the regulation of our
    business made by any one or more of our existing regulators. A
    regulator may change its current process for regulating our
    business, change its current interpretations of our regulatory
    requirements or exercise regulatory authority over our business
    beyond current practices, and any of these changes could have a
    material adverse effect on our business and earnings. For
    example, on June 13, 2006, HUD announced that it will
    conduct a review of specified investments and holdings to
    determine whether our investment activities are consistent with
    our charter authority. We cannot predict the outcome of this
    review or whether HUD will seek to restrict our current business
    activities as a result of this or other reviews.

To
    meet HUD s new housing goals and subgoals, we enter into
    transactions that may reduce our profitability.   

As part of our mission of increasing the availability and
    affordability of financing for residential mortgage loans in the
    United States, we must comply with the housing goals and
    subgoals established by HUD. HUD s housing goals require
    that a specified portion of our business relate to the purchase
    or securitization of

46

Table of Contents   

mortgage loans serving low- and moderate-income households,
    households in underserved areas and households qualifying under
    the definition of special affordable housing. HUD has increased
    our housing goals for 2005 through 2008, and has created new
    purchase money mortgage subgoals effective beginning in 2005
    that also increase over the 2005 to 2008 period.

Meeting the increased housing goals and subgoals established by
    HUD for 2006 and future years may reduce our profitability and
    compete with our goal of maximizing total returns. In order to
    obtain business that contributes to our new housing goals and
    subgoals, we have made, and continue to make, significant
    adjustments to our mortgage loan sourcing and purchase
    strategies. These strategies include entering into some purchase
    and securitization transactions with lower expected economic
    returns than our typical transactions. We have also relaxed some
    of our underwriting criteria to obtain goals-qualifying mortgage
    loans and increased our investments in higher-risk mortgage loan
    products that are more likely to serve the borrowers targeted by
    HUD s goals and subgoals, which could increase our credit
    losses.

The specific housing goals and subgoals levels for 2005 through
    2008, as well as our performance against these goals in 2005,
    are described in  Item 1 Business Our
    Charter and Regulation of Our Activities Regulation and
    Oversight of Our Activities HUD Regulation Housing
    Goals.  We did not meet one of our 2005 subgoals, and it is
    possible that we may not meet one or more of our 2006 subgoals.
    Meeting the higher subgoals for 2006 is particularly challenging
    because increased home prices and higher interest rates have
    reduced housing affordability. Since HUD set the home purchase
    subgoals in 2004, the affordable housing markets have
    experienced a dramatic change. Newly-released Home Mortgage
    Disclosure Act data show that the share of the primary mortgage
    market serving low- and moderate-income borrowers declined in
    2005, reducing our ability to purchase and securitize mortgage
    loans that meet the HUD subgoals. If our efforts to meet the new
    housing goals and subgoals in 2006 and future years prove to be
    insufficient, we may need to take additional steps that could
    increase our credit losses and reduce our profitability.

Our
    business faces significant operational risks and an operational
    failure could materially adversely affect our
    business.   

Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or
    systems could have a material adverse effect on our risk
    management, liquidity, financial condition and results of
    operations; disrupt our business; and result in legislative or
    regulatory intervention, damage to our reputation and liability
    to customers. For example, our business is dependent on our
    ability to manage and process, on a daily basis, a large number
    of transactions across numerous and diverse markets. These
    transactions are subject to various legal and regulatory
    standards. We rely on the ability of our employees and our
    internal financial, accounting, data processing and other
    operating systems, as well as technological systems operated by
    third parties, to process these transactions and to manage our
    business. As a result of events that are wholly or partially
    beyond our control, these employees or third parties could
    engage in improper or unauthorized actions, or these systems
    could fail to operate properly. In the event of a breakdown in
    the operation of our or a third party s systems, or
    improper actions by employees or third parties, we could
    experience financial losses, business disruptions, legal and
    regulatory sanctions, and reputational damage.

Because we use a process of delegated underwriting for the
    single-family mortgage loans we purchase and securitize, we do
    not independently verify most borrower information that is
    provided to us. This exposes us to mortgage fraud risk, which is
    the risk that one or more parties involved in a transaction (the
    borrower, seller, broker, appraiser, title agent, lender or
    servicer) will misrepresent the facts about a mortgage loan. We
    may experience financial losses and reputational damage as a
    result of mortgage fraud.

In addition, our operations rely on the secure processing,
    storage and transmission of a large volume of private borrower
    information, such as names, residential addresses, social
    security numbers, credit rating data and other consumer
    financial information. Despite the protective measures we take
    to reduce the likelihood of information breaches, this
    information could be exposed in several ways, including through
    unauthorized access to our computer systems, computer viruses
    that attack our computer systems, software or networks,
    accidental delivery of information to an unauthorized party and
    loss of unencrypted media containing this information. Any of
    these events could result in significant financial losses, legal
    and regulatory sanctions, and reputational damage.

47

Table of Contents   

The
    occurrence of a major natural or other disaster in the United
    States could increase our delinquency rates and credit losses or
    disrupt our business operations and lead to financial
    losses.   

The occurrence of a major natural disaster, terrorist attack or
    health epidemic in the United States could increase our
    delinquency rates and credit losses in the affected region or
    regions, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations. For example, we
    experienced an increase in our delinquency rates and credit
    losses as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. In addition,
    as of December 31, 2004, approximately 18% of the gross
    unpaid principal balance of the conventional single-family loans
    we held or securitized in Fannie Mae MBS and approximately 28%
    of the gross unpaid principal balance of the multifamily loans
    we held or securitized in Fannie Mae MBS were concentrated in
    California. Due to this geographic concentration in California,
    a major earthquake or other disaster in that state could lead to
    significant increases in delinquency rates and credit losses.

Despite the contingency plans and facilities that we have in
    place, our ability to conduct business also may be adversely
    affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our
    business and the communities in which we are located. Potential
    disruptions may include those involving electrical,
    communications, transportation and other services we use or that
    are provided to us. Substantially all of our senior management
    and investment personnel work out of our offices in the
    Washington, DC metropolitan area. If a disruption occurs and our
    senior management or other employees are unable to occupy our
    offices, communicate with other personnel or travel to other
    locations, our ability to service and interact with each other
    and with our customers may suffer, and we may not be successful
    in implementing contingency plans that depend on communication
    or travel. A description of our disaster recovery plans and
    facilities in the event of a disruption of this type is included
    in  Item 7 MD Risk
    Management Operational Risk Management. 

In
    many cases, our accounting policies and methods, which are
    fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results
    of operations, require management to make estimates and rely on
    the use of models about matters that are inherently
    uncertain.   

Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we
    record and report our financial condition and results of
    operations. Our management must exercise judgment in applying
    many of these accounting policies and methods so that these
    policies and methods comply with GAAP and reflect
    management s judgment of the most appropriate manner to
    report our financial condition and results of operations. In
    some cases, management must select the appropriate accounting
    policy or method from two or more alternatives, any of which
    might be reasonable under the circumstances but might affect the
    amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses that we
    report. See  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies  for a description of our significant accounting
    policies.

We have identified the following four accounting policies as
    critical to the presentation of our financial condition and
    results of operations:

estimating the fair value of financial instruments;

amortizing cost basis adjustments on mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities held in our portfolio and underlying
    outstanding Fannie Mae MBS using the effective interest method;

determining our allowance for loan losses and reserve for
    guaranty losses; and

determining whether an entity in which we have an ownership
    interest is a variable interest entity and whether we are the
    primary beneficiary of that variable interest entity and
    therefore must consolidate the entity.

We believe these policies are critical because they require
    management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments
    about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the
    likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported
    under different conditions or using different assumptions. Due
    to the complexity of these critical accounting policies, our
    accounting methods relating to these policies involve
    substantial use of models. Models are inherently imperfect
    predictors of actual results because they are based on
    assumptions, including assumptions about future events, and
    actual results could differ significantly. More information
    about these policies is included in
     Item 7 MD Critical Accounting
    Policies and Estimates. 

48

Table of Contents   

We are
    subject to pending civil litigation that, if decided against us,
    could require us to pay substantial judgments, settlements or
    other penalties.   

A number of lawsuits have been filed against us and certain of
    our current and former officers and directors relating to our
    accounting restatement. These suits are currently pending in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and fall
    within three primary categories: a consolidated shareholder
    class action lawsuit, a consolidated shareholder derivative
    lawsuit and a consolidated Employee Retirement Income Security
    Act of 1974 ( ERISA )-based class action lawsuit. We
    may be required to pay substantial judgments, settlements or
    other penalties and incur significant expenses in connection
    with the consolidated shareholder class action and consolidated
    ERISA-based class action, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. In
    addition, our current and former directors, officers and
    employees may be entitled to reimbursement for the costs and
    expenses of these lawsuits pursuant to our indemnification
    obligations with those persons. We are also a party to several
    other lawsuits that, if decided against us, could require us to
    pay substantial judgments, settlements or other penalties. These
    include a proposed class action lawsuit alleging violations of
    federal and state antitrust laws and state consumer protection
    laws in connection with the setting of our guaranty fees and a
    proposed class action lawsuit alleging that we violated
    purported fiduciary duties with respect to certain escrow
    accounts for FHA-insured multifamily mortgage loans. We are
    unable at this time to estimate our potential liability in these
    matters. We expect all of these lawsuits to be time-consuming,
    and they may divert management s attention and resources
    from our ordinary business operations. More information
    regarding these lawsuits is included in
     Item 3 Legal Proceedings  and  Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 20,
    Commitments and Contingencies. 

RISKS
    RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRY  

Changes
    in general market and economic conditions in the United States
    and abroad may adversely affect our financial condition and
    results of operations.   

Our financial condition and results of operations may be
    adversely affected by changes in general market and economic
    conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions
    include short-term and long-term interest rates, the value of
    the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies,
    fluctuations in both the debt and equity capital markets,
    employment rates and the strength of the U.S. national
    economy and local economies. These conditions are beyond our
    control, and may change suddenly and dramatically.

Changes in market and economic conditions could adversely affect
    us in many ways, including the following:

fluctuations in the global debt and equity capital markets,
    including sudden and unexpected changes in short-term or
    long-term interest rates, could decrease the fair value of our
    mortgage assets, derivatives positions and other investments,
    negatively affect our ability to issue debt at attractive rates,
    and reduce our net interest income; and

an economic downturn or rising unemployment in the United States
    could decrease homeowner demand for mortgage loans and increase
    the number of homeowners who become delinquent or default on
    their mortgage loans. An increase in delinquencies or defaults
    would likely result in a higher level of credit losses, which
    would adversely affect our earnings. Also, decreased homeowner
    demand for mortgage loans could reduce our guaranty fee income,
    net interest income and the fair value of our mortgage assets.
    An economic downturn could also increase the risk that our
    counterparties will default on their obligations to us,
    increasing our liabilities and reducing our earnings.

A
    decline in U.S. housing prices or in activity in the
    U.S. housing market could negatively impact our earnings
    and financial condition.   

U.S. housing prices have risen significantly in recent
    years. As described above, this period of extraordinary home
    price appreciation appears to be ending. The rate of home price
    appreciation has slowed and we believe there is a possibility of
    a modest decline in national home prices in 2007. Declines in
    housing prices could result in increased delinquencies or
    defaults on the mortgage loans we own or that back our
    guaranteed Fannie Mae MBS. An increase in delinquencies or
    defaults would likely result in a higher level of credit losses,
    which would adversely affect our earnings. In addition, housing
    price declines would reduce the fair value of our mortgage
    assets.

49

Table of Contents   

Growth in the amount of U.S. residential mortgage debt
    outstanding has also been significant in recent years. Our
    business volume is affected by the rate of growth in total
    U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding and the size of
    the U.S. residential mortgage market. If the rate of growth
    in total U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding were to
    decline, the growth rate of mortgage loans available for us to
    purchase or securitize likely would slow, which could lead to a
    reduction in our net interest income and guaranty fee income.

Item 1B.    

Unresolved
    Staff Comments  

None.

Item 2.    

Properties  

We own our principal office, which is located at 3900 Wisconsin
    Avenue, NW, Washington, DC, as well as additional Washington, DC
    facilities at 3939 Wisconsin Avenue, NW and 4250 Connecticut
    Avenue, NW. We also own two office facilities in Herndon,
    Virginia, as well as two additional facilities located in
    Reston, Virginia, and Urbana, Maryland. These owned facilities
    contain a total of approximately 1,460,000 square feet of
    space. We lease the land underlying the 4250 Connecticut Avenue
    building pursuant to a lease that automatically renews on
    July 1, 2029 for an additional 49 years unless we
    elect to terminate the lease by providing notice to the landlord
    of our decision to terminate at least one year prior to the
    automatic renewal date. In addition, we lease approximately
    375,000 square feet of office space at 4000 Wisconsin
    Avenue, NW, which is adjacent to our principal office. The
    present lease for 4000 Wisconsin Avenue expires in 2008,
    and we have the option to extend the lease for up to 10
    additional years, in
     5-year 
    increments. We also lease an additional approximately
    417,000 square feet of office space at five locations in
    Washington, DC, suburban Virginia and Maryland. We maintain
    approximately 426,000 square feet of office space in leased
    premises in Pasadena, California; Atlanta, Georgia; Chicago,
    Illinois; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Dallas, Texas. In
    addition, we have 55 Fannie Mae Community Business Centers
    around the United States, which work with cities, rural areas
    and underserved communities.

Item 3.    

Legal
    Proceedings  

This item describes the material legal proceedings, examinations
    and other matters that: (1) were pending as of
    December 31, 2004; (2) were terminated during the
    period from the beginning of the third quarter of 2004 through
    the filing of this report; or (3) are pending as of the
    filing of this report. Thus, the description of a matter may
    include developments that occurred since December 31, 2004,
    as well as those that occurred during 2004. The matters include
    legal proceedings relating to the restatement of our
    consolidated financial statements, such as class action and
    individual securities lawsuits, shareholder derivative actions
    and governmental proceedings, and class action lawsuits alleging
    antitrust violations and abuse of escrow accounts.

As described below, a number of lawsuits have been filed against
    us and certain of our current and former officers and directors
    relating to the accounting matters discussed in our SEC filings
    and OFHEO s interim and final reports, and in the report
    issued by the law firm of Paul Weiss on the results of its
    independent investigation. These lawsuits currently are pending
    in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and
    fall within three primary categories: (1) a consolidated
    shareholder class action, (2) a consolidated shareholder
    derivative lawsuit, and (3) a consolidated ERISA-based
    class action lawsuit. In addition, the Department of Labor is
    conducting a review of our Employee Stock Ownership Plan
    ( ESOP ).

In 2003, OFHEO commenced its special examination of us. The SEC
    and the U.S. Attorney s Office for the District of
    Columbia also commenced investigations against us relating to
    matters discussed in the OFHEO reports. On May 23, 2006, we
    reached a settlement with OFHEO and the SEC. In August 2006, we
    were advised by the U.S. Attorney s Office for the
    District of Columbia that it was discontinuing its investigation
    of us and does not plan to file charges against us.

Presently, we are also a defendant in a proposed class action
    lawsuit alleging violations of federal and state antitrust laws
    and state consumer protection laws in connection with the
    setting of our guaranty fees. In addition, we are a defendant in
    a proposed class action lawsuit alleging that we violated
    purported fiduciary duties with respect to certain escrow
    accounts for FHA-insured multifamily mortgage loans.

50

Table of Contents   

We are involved in a number of legal and regulatory proceedings
    that arise in the ordinary course of business. For example, we
    are involved in legal proceedings that arise in connection with
    properties acquired either through foreclosure on properties
    securing delinquent mortgage loans we own or through our receipt
    of deeds to those properties in lieu of foreclosure. Claims
    related to possible tort liability occur from time to time,
    primarily in the case of single-family real estate owned
    ( REO ) property.

From time to time, we are also a party to legal proceedings
    arising from our relationships with our sellers and servicers.
    Litigation can result from disputes with lenders concerning
    their loan origination or servicing obligations to us, or can
    result from disputes concerning termination by us (for a variety
    of reasons) of a lender s authority to do business with us
    as a seller
     and/or 
    servicer. In addition, loan servicing and financing issues
    sometimes result in claims, including potential class actions,
    brought against us by borrowers.

We also are a party to legal proceedings arising from time to
    time from the conduct of our business and administrative
    functions, including contractual disputes and employment-related
    claims.

Litigation claims and proceedings of all types are subject to
    many factors that generally cannot be predicted accurately. For
    additional information on these proceedings, see  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements Note 20, Commitments
    and Contingencies. 

RESTATEMENT-RELATED
    MATTERS  

Securities
    Class Action Lawsuits  

In Re
    Fannie Mae Securities Litigation  

Beginning on September 23, 2004, 13 separate complaints
    were filed by holders of our securities against us, as well as
    certain of our former officers, in the U.S. District Court
    for the District of Columbia, the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of New York and other courts. The
    complaints in these lawsuits purport to have been made on behalf
    of a class of plaintiffs consisting of purchasers of Fannie Mae
    securities between April 17, 2001 and September 21,
    2004. The complaints alleged that we and certain of our
    officers, including Franklin D. Raines, J. Timothy Howard and
    Leanne Spencer, made material misrepresentations
     and/or 
    omissions of material facts in violation of the federal
    securities laws. Plaintiffs  claims were based on findings
    contained in OFHEO s September 2004 interim report
    regarding its findings to that date in its special examination
    of our accounting policies, practices and controls.

All of the cases were consolidated
     and/or 
    transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Columbia. A consolidated complaint was filed on March 4,
    2005 against us and former officers Franklin D. Raines,
    J. Timothy Howard and Leanne Spencer. The court entered an
    order naming the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System and
    State Teachers Retirement System of Ohio as lead plaintiffs. The
    consolidated complaint generally made the same allegations as
    the individually-filed complaints, which is that we and certain
    of our former officers made false and misleading statements in
    violation of the federal securities laws in connection with
    certain accounting policies and practices. More specifically,
    the consolidated complaint alleged that the defendants made
    materially false and misleading statements in violation of
    Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, and SEC
     Rule 10b-5 
    promulgated thereunder, largely with respect to accounting
    statements that were inconsistent with the GAAP requirements
    relating to hedge accounting and the amortization of premiums
    and discounts. Plaintiffs contend that the alleged fraud
    resulted in artificially inflated prices for our common stock.
    Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, attorneys  fees, and
    other fees and costs. Discovery commenced in this action
    following the denial of the defendants  motions to dismiss
    on February 10, 2006.

On April 17, 2006, the plaintiffs in the consolidated class
    action filed an amended consolidated complaint against us and
    former officers Franklin D. Raines, J. Timothy Howard and Leanne
    Spencer, that added purchasers of publicly traded call options
    and sellers of publicly traded put options to the putative class
    and sought to extend the end of the putative class period from
    September 21, 2004 to September 27, 2005. We and the
    individual defendants filed motions to dismiss addressing the
    extended class period and the deficiency of the additional
    accounting allegations. On August 14, 2006, while those
    motions were still pending, the plaintiffs filed a second
    amended complaint adding KPMG LLP and Goldman, Sachs &
    Co., Inc. as additional

51

Table of Contents   

defendants and adding allegations based on the May 2006 report
    issued by OFHEO and the February 2006 report issued by Paul
    Weiss. Our answer to the second amended complaint is due to be
    filed on January 8, 2007. Plaintiffs filed a motion for
    class certification on May 17, 2006 that is still pending.

In addition, two individual securities cases have been filed by
    institutional investor shareholders in the U.S. District
    Court for the District of Columbia. The first case was filed on
    January 17, 2006 by Evergreen Equity Trust, Evergreen
    Select Equity Trust, Evergreen Variable Annuity Trust and
    Evergreen International Trust against us and the following
    current and former officers and directors: Franklin D. Raines,
    J. Timothy Howard, Leanne Spencer, Thomas P. Gerrity, Anne M.
    Mulcahy, Frederick V. Malek, Taylor Segue, III, William
    Harvey, Joe K. Pickett, Victor Ashe, Stephen B. Ashley, Molly
    Bordonaro, Kenneth M. Duberstein, Jamie Gorelick, Manuel Justiz,
    Ann McLaughlin Korologos, Donald B. Marron, Daniel H. Mudd, H.
    Patrick Swygert and Leslie Rahl.

The second individual securities case was filed on
    January 25, 2006 by 25 affiliates of Franklin Templeton
    Investments against us, KPMG LLP, and all of the following
    current and former officers and directors: Franklin D. Raines,
    J. Timothy Howard, Leanne Spencer, Thomas P. Gerrity, Anne M.
    Mulcahy, Frederick V. Malek, Taylor Segue, III, William
    Harvey, Joe K. Pickett, Victor Ashe, Stephen B. Ashley, Molly
    Bordonaro, Kenneth M. Duberstein, Jamie Gorelick, Manuel Justiz,
    Ann McLaughlin Korologos, Donald B. Marron, Daniel H. Mudd, H.
    Patrick Swygert and Leslie Rahl.

The two related individual securities actions assert various
    federal and state securities law and common law claims against
    us and certain of our current and former officers and directors
    based upon essentially the same alleged conduct as that at issue
    in the consolidated shareholder class action, and also assert
    insider trading claims against certain former officers. Both
    cases seek compensatory and punitive damages, attorneys 
    fees, and other fees and costs. In addition, the Evergreen
    plaintiffs seek an award of treble damages under state law.

On June 29, 2006 and then again on August 14 and 15,
    2006, the individual securities plaintiffs filed first amended
    complaints and then second amended complaints seeking to address
    certain of the arguments made by the defendants in their
    original motions to dismiss and adding additional allegations
    regarding improper accounting practices. On August 17,
    2006, we filed motions to dismiss certain claims and allegations
    of the individual securities plaintiffs  second amended
    complaints. The individual plaintiffs seek to proceed
    independently of the potential class of shareholders in the
    consolidated shareholder class action, but the court has
    consolidated these cases as part of the consolidated shareholder
    class action for pretrial purposes and possibly through final
    judgment.

We believe we have defenses to the claims in these lawsuits and
    intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously.

Shareholder
    Derivative Lawsuits  

In Re
    Fannie Mae Shareholder Derivative Litigation  

Beginning on September 28, 2004, ten plaintiffs filed
    twelve shareholder derivative actions ( i.e. , lawsuits
    filed by shareholder plaintiffs on our behalf) in three
    different federal district courts and the Superior Court of the
    District of Columbia on behalf of the company against certain of
    our current and former officers and directors and against us as
    a nominal defendant. Plaintiffs contend that the defendants
    purposefully misapplied GAAP, maintained poor internal controls,
    issued a false and misleading proxy statement, and falsified
    documents to cause our financial performance to appear smooth
    and stable, and that Fannie Mae was harmed as a result. The
    claims are for breaches of the duty of care, breach of fiduciary
    duty, waste, insider trading, fraud, gross mismanagement,
    violations of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and unjust
    enrichment. Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, punitive
    damages, attorneys  fees, and other fees and costs, as well
    as injunctive relief related to the adoption by us of certain
    proposed corporate governance policies and internal controls.

All of these individual actions have been consolidated into the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and the
    court entered an order naming Pirelli Armstrong Tire Corporation
    and Wayne County Employees  Retirement System as co-lead
    plaintiffs. A consolidated complaint was filed on
    September 26, 2005. The consolidated complaint named the
    following current and former officers and directors as
    defendants: Franklin D. Raines, J. Timothy Howard, Thomas P.
    Gerrity, Frederick V. Malek, Joe K. Pickett, Anne M. Mulcahy,

52

Table of Contents   

Daniel H. Mudd, Kenneth M. Duberstein, Stephen B. Ashley, Ann
    McLaughlin Korologos, Donald B. Marron, Leslie Rahl, H. Patrick
    Swygert and John K. Wulff.

When document production commenced in  In re Fannie Mae
    Securities Litigation , we agreed to simultaneously provide
    our document production from that action to the plaintiffs in
    the shareholder derivative action.

All of the defendants filed motions to dismiss the action on
    December 14, 2005. These motions were fully briefed but not
    ruled upon. In the interim, the plaintiffs filed an amended
    complaint on September 1, 2006, thus mooting the previously
    filed motions to dismiss. Among other things, the amended
    complaint adds Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Goldman,
    Sachs & Co., Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc. and Radian
    Insurance Inc. as defendants, adds allegations concerning the
    nature of certain transactions between these entities and Fannie
    Mae, adds additional allegations from OFHEO s May 2006
    report on its special examination, the Paul Weiss report and
    other additional details. We filed motions to dismiss the first
    amended complaint on October 20, 2006.

ERISA
    Action  

In re
    Fannie Mae ERISA Litigation (formerly David Gwyer v. Fannie
    Mae)  

Three ERISA-based cases have been filed against us, our Board of
    Directors  Compensation Committee, and against the
    following former and current officers and directors: Franklin D.
    Raines, J. Timothy Howard, Daniel H. Mudd, Vincent A. Mai,
    Stephen Friedman, Anne M. Mulcahy, Ann McLaughlin
    Korologos, Joe K. Pickett, Donald B. Marron, Kathy Gallo
    and Leanne Spencer.

On October 15, 2004, David Gwyer filed a class action
    complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Columbia. Two additional class action complaints were filed by
    other plaintiffs on May 6, 2005 and May 10, 2005. All
    of these cases were consolidated on May 24, 2005 in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. A
    consolidated complaint was filed on June 15, 2005. The
    plaintiffs in the consolidated ERISA-based lawsuit purport to
    represent a class of participants in our ESOP between
    January 1, 2001 and the present. Their claims are based on
    alleged breaches of fiduciary duty relating to accounting
    matters discussed in our SEC filings and in OFHEO s interim
    report. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages, attorneys 
    fees, and other fees and costs, and other injunctive and
    equitable relief. We filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated
    complaint on June 29, 2005. Our motion and all of the other
    defendants  motions to dismiss were fully briefed and
    argued on January 13, 2006. As of the date of this filing,
    these motions are still pending.

We believe we have defenses to the claims in these lawsuits and
    intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously.

Department
    of Labor ESOP Investigation  

In November 2003, the Department of Labor commenced a review of
    our ESOP and Retirement Savings Plan. The Department of Labor
    has concluded its investigation of our Retirement Savings Plan,
    but continues to review the ESOP. We continue to cooperate fully
    in this investigation.

RESTATEMENT-RELATED
    INVESTIGATIONS BY U.S. ATTORNEY S OFFICE, OFHEO AND
    THE SEC  

U.S. Attorney s
    Office Investigation  

In October 2004, we were told by the U.S. Attorney s
    Office for the District of Columbia that it was conducting an
    investigation of our accounting policies and practices. In
    August 2006, we were advised by the U.S. Attorney s
    Office for the District of Columbia that it was discontinuing
    its investigation of us and does not plan to file charges
    against us.

OFHEO and
    SEC Settlements  

On May 23, 2006, we entered into comprehensive settlements
    with OFHEO and the SEC that resolved open matters related to
    their recent investigations of us.

53

Table of Contents   

OFHEO
    Special Examination and Settlement   

In July 2003, OFHEO notified us that it intended to conduct a
    special examination of our accounting policies and internal
    controls, as well as other areas of inquiry. OFHEO began its
    special examination in November 2003 and delivered an interim
    report of its findings in September 2004. On May 23, 2006,
    OFHEO released its final report on its special examination.
    OFHEO s final report concluded that, during the period
    covered by the report (1998 to mid-2004), a large number of our
    accounting policies and practices did not comply with GAAP and
    we had serious problems in our internal controls, financial
    reporting and corporate governance. The final OFHEO report is
    available on our Web site (www.fanniemae.com) and on
    OFHEO s Web site (www.ofheo.gov).

Concurrently with OFHEO s release of its final report, we
    entered into comprehensive settlements that resolved open
    matters with OFHEO, as well as with the SEC (described below).
    As part of the OFHEO settlement, we agreed to OFHEO s
    issuance of a consent order. In entering into this settlement,
    we neither admitted nor denied any wrongdoing or any asserted or
    implied finding or other basis for the consent order. Under this
    consent order, in addition to the civil penalty described below,
    we agreed to undertake specified remedial actions to address the
    recommendations contained in OFHEO s final report,
    including actions relating to our corporate governance, Board of
    Directors, capital plans, internal controls, accounting
    practices, public disclosures, regulatory reporting, personnel
    and compensation practices. We also agreed not to increase our
    net mortgage assets above the amount shown in our minimum
    capital report to OFHEO for December 31, 2005
    ($727.75 billion), except in limited circumstances at
    OFHEO s discretion. The consent order superseded and
    terminated both our September 27, 2004 agreement with OFHEO
    and the March 7, 2005 supplement to that agreement, and
    resolved all matters addressed by OFHEO s interim and final
    reports of its special examination. As part of the OFHEO
    settlement, we also agreed to pay a $400 million civil
    penalty, with $50 million payable to the U.S. Treasury
    and $350 million payable to the SEC for distribution to
    stockholders pursuant to the Fair Funds for Investors provision
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have paid this civil
    penalty in full. This $400 million civil penalty, which has
    been recorded as an expense in our 2004 consolidated financial
    statements, is not deductible for tax purposes.

SEC
    Investigation and Settlement   

Following the issuance of the September 2004 interim OFHEO
    report, the SEC informed us that it was investigating our
    accounting practices.

Concurrently, at our request, the SEC reviewed our accounting
    practices with respect to hedge accounting and the amortization
    of premiums and discounts, which OFHEO s interim report had
    concluded did not comply with GAAP. On December 15, 2004,
    the SEC s Office of the Chief Accountant announced that it
    had advised us to (1) restate our financial statements
    filed with the SEC to eliminate the use of hedge accounting, and
    (2) evaluate our accounting for the amortization of
    premiums and discounts, and restate our financial statements
    filed with the SEC if the amounts required for correction were
    material. The SEC s Office of the Chief Accountant also
    advised us to reevaluate the GAAP and non-GAAP information that
    we previously provided to investors.

On May 23, 2006, without admitting or denying the
    SEC s allegations, we consented to the entry of a final
    judgment requiring us to pay the civil penalty described above
    and permanently restraining and enjoining us from future
    violations of the anti-fraud, books and records, internal
    controls and reporting provisions of the federal securities
    laws. The settlement, which included the $400 million civil
    penalty described above, resolved all claims asserted against us
    in the SEC s civil proceeding. Our consent to the final
    judgment was filed as an exhibit to the
     Form 8-K 
    that we filed with the SEC on May 30, 2006. The final
    judgment was entered by the U.S. District Court of the
    District of Columbia on August 9, 2006.

OTHER
    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

Former
    CEO Arbitration  

On September 19, 2005, Franklin D. Raines, our former
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, initiated arbitration
    proceedings against Fannie Mae before the American Arbitration
    Association. On April 10, 2006,

54

Table of Contents   

the parties convened an evidentiary hearing before the
    arbitrator. The principal issue before the arbitrator was
    whether we were permitted to waive a requirement contained in
    Mr. Raines  employment agreement that he provide six
    months notice prior to retiring. On April 24, 2006, the
    arbitrator issued a decision finding that we could not
    unilaterally waive the notice period, and that the effective
    date of Mr. Raines  retirement was June 22, 2005,
    rather than December 21, 2004 (his final day of active
    employment). Under the arbitrator s decision,
    Mr. Raines  election to receive an accelerated,
    lump-sum payment of a portion of his deferred compensation must
    now be honored. Moreover, we must pay Mr. Raines any salary
    and other compensation to which he would have been entitled had
    he remained employed through June 22, 2005, less any
    pension benefits that Mr. Raines received during that
    period. On November 7, 2006, the parties entered into a
    consent award, which partially resolved the issue of amounts due
    Mr. Raines. In accordance with the consent award, we paid
    Mr. Raines $2.6 million on November 17, 2006. By
    agreement, final resolution of the unresolved issues was
    deferred until after our accounting restatement results are
    announced. Each party has the right, within sixty days of the
    announcement of our accounting restatement results, to notify
    the arbitrator whether it believes that further proceedings are
    necessary.

Antitrust
    Lawsuits  

In Re
    G-Fees Antitrust Litigation  

Since January 18, 2005, we have been served with 11
    proposed class action complaints filed by single-family
    borrowers that allege that we and Freddie Mac violated the
    Clayton and Sherman Acts and state antitrust and consumer
    protection statutes by agreeing to artificially fix, raise,
    maintain or stabilize the price of our and Freddie Mac s
    guaranty fees. Two of these cases were filed in state courts.
    The remaining cases were filed in federal court. The two state
    court actions were voluntarily dismissed. The federal court
    actions were consolidated in the U.S. District Court for
    the District of Columbia. Plaintiffs filed a consolidated
    amended complaint on August 5, 2005. Plaintiffs in the
    consolidated action seek to represent a class of consumers whose
    loans allegedly  contain a guarantee fee set by  us or
    Freddie Mac between January 1, 2001 and the present. The
    consolidated amended complaint alleges violations of federal and
    state antitrust laws and state consumer protection and other
    laws. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages, treble damages,
    punitive damages, and declaratory and injunctive relief, as well
    as attorneys  fees and costs.

We and Freddie Mac filed a motion to dismiss on October 11,
    2005. The motion to dismiss has been fully briefed and remains
    pending.

We believe we have defenses to the claims in these lawsuits and
    intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously.

Escrow
    Litigation  

Casa
    Orlando Apartments, Ltd., et al. v. Federal National
    Mortgage Association (formerly known as Medlock Southwest
    Management Corp., et al. v. Federal National Mortgage
    Association)  

We are the subject of a lawsuit in which plaintiffs purport to
    represent a class of multifamily borrowers whose mortgages are
    insured under Sections 221(d)(3), 236 and other sections of
    the National Housing Act and are held or serviced by us. The
    complaint identified as a class low- and moderate-income
    apartment building developers who maintained uninvested escrow
    accounts with us or our servicer. Plaintiffs Casa Orlando
    Apartments, Ltd., Jasper Housing Development Company and the
    Porkolab Family Trust No. 1 allege that we violated
    fiduciary obligations that they contend we owe to borrowers with
    respect to certain escrow accounts and that we were unjustly
    enriched. In particular, plaintiffs contend that, starting in
    1969, we misused these escrow funds and are therefore liable for
    any economic benefit we received from the use of these funds.
    Plaintiffs seek a return of any profits, with accrued interest,
    earned by us related to the escrow accounts at issue, as well as
    attorneys  fees and costs.

The complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
    Eastern District of Texas (Texarkana Division) on June 2,
    2004 and served on us on June 16, 2004. Our motion to
    dismiss and motion for summary judgment were denied on
    March 10, 2005. We filed a partial motion for
    reconsideration of our motion for summary judgment, which was
    denied on February 24, 2006.

55

Table of Contents   

Plaintiffs have filed an amended complaint and a motion for
    class certification. A hearing on plaintiffs  motion for
    class certification was held on July 19, 2006, and the
    motion remains pending.

We believe we have defenses to the claims in this lawsuit and
    intend to defend this lawsuit vigorously.

Item 4.    

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

None.

56

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.    

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

Our common stock is publicly traded on the New York, Pacific and
    Chicago stock exchanges and is identified by the ticker symbol
     FNM.  The transfer agent and registrar for our common
    stock is Computershare, P.O. Box 43081, Providence,
    Rhode Island 02940.

Quarterly
    Common Stock Data  

The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the high
    and low sales prices per share of our common stock in the
    consolidated transaction reporting system as reported in the
    Bloomberg Financial Markets service, as well as the dividends
    per share paid in each period.

Quarterly
    Common Stock Data  

Holders  

As of October 31, 2006, we had approximately 20,000
    registered holders of record of our common stock.

Dividends  

The table set forth under  Quarterly Common Stock
    Data  above sets forth the quarterly dividends we have paid
    on our common stock from the first quarter of 2003 through and
    including the third quarter of 2006.

In January 2005, our Board of Directors reduced our quarterly
    common stock dividend rate by 50%, from $0.52 per share to
    $0.26 per share. We reduced our common stock dividend rate
    in order to increase our capital surplus, which was a component
    of our capital restoration plan. See
     Item 7 MD Liquidity and Capital
    Management Capital Management Capital Adequacy
    Requirements Capital Restoration Plan and OFHEO-Directed
    Minimum Capital Requirement  for a description of our
    capital restoration plan. On December 6, 2006, the Board of
    Directors increased the quarterly common stock dividend to $0.40
    per share. The Board determined that the increased dividend
    would be effective beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, and
    therefore declared a special common stock dividend of $0.14 per
    share, payable on December 29, 2006, to stockholders of
    record on December 15, 2006. This special dividend of
    $0.14, combined with our previously declared dividend of $0.26
    paid on November 27, 2006, will result in a total common
    stock

57

Table of Contents   

dividend of $0.40 per share for the fourth quarter of 2006. Our
    Board of Directors will continue to assess dividend payments for
    each quarter based upon the facts and conditions existing at the
    time.

Our payment of dividends is subject to certain restrictions,
    including the submission of prior notification to OFHEO
    detailing the rationale and process for the proposed dividend
    and prior approval by the Director of OFHEO of any dividend
    payment that would cause our capital to fall below specified
    capital levels. See
     Item 7 MD  Liquidity and Capital
    Management Capital Management Capital
    Activity OFHEO Oversight of Our Capital Activity  for
    a description of these restrictions. Payment of dividends on our
    common stock is also subject to the prior payment of dividends
    on our 13 series of preferred stock, representing an aggregate
    of 132,175,000 shares outstanding. Quarterly dividends on
    the shares of our preferred stock outstanding totaled
    $130.7 million for the quarter ended September 30,
    2006. See  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 17, Preferred Stock  for detailed
    information on our preferred stock dividends.

Securities
    Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation
    Plans  

The information required by Item 201(d) of
     Regulation S-K 
    is provided under  Item 12 Security Ownership of
    Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters,  which is incorporated herein by reference.

Recent
    Sales of Unregistered Securities  

Under the Stock Compensation Plan of 1993 and the Stock
    Compensation Plan of 2003 (the  Plans ), we regularly
    provide stock compensation to our employees and members of our
    Board of Directors to attract, motivate and retain these
    individuals and promote an identity of interests with our
    stockholders. During the year ended December 31, 2004, we
    issued 3,262,894 shares of common stock upon the exercise
    of stock options for an aggregate exercise price of
    approximately $129 million, almost all of which was paid in
    cash and the remainder of which was paid by the delivery of
    8,936 shares of common stock. Additionally, in
    consideration of services rendered or to be rendered, we issued
    2,594,769 options to purchase common stock at a weighted average
    exercise price of $78.04 per share, 998,425 shares of
    restricted stock and 38,134 restricted stock units. Options
    granted under the Plans typically vest 25% per year
    beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant and
    expire ten years after the grant. Shares of restricted stock and
    restricted stock units granted under the Plans typically vest in
    equal annual installments over three or four years beginning on
    the first anniversary of the date of grant. Each restricted
    stock unit represents the right to receive a share of common
    stock at the time of vesting. As a result, the economic
    consequences of restricted stock units are generally similar to
    restricted stock, except that restricted stock units do not
    confer voting rights on their holders.

All options and shares of restricted stock and restricted stock
    units were granted to persons who were employees or members of
    the Board of Directors. During the year ended December 31,
    2004, 236,521 restricted stock awards vested, as a result of
    which 155,679 shares of common stock were issued and
    80,842 shares of common stock that otherwise would have
    been issued were withheld in lieu of requiring the recipients to
    pay the withholding taxes due upon vesting to us. Additionally,
    during the year ended December 31, 2004, 8,014 restricted
    stock units vested, as a result of which 5,252 shares of
    common stock were issued and 2,762 shares of common stock
    that otherwise would have been issued were withheld in lieu of
    requiring the recipients to pay the withholding taxes due upon
    vesting to us.

In January 2004, we contributed an aggregate of
    104,886 shares to the Employee Stock Ownership Plan
    ( ESOP ). Benefits for employees vest under the ESOP
    based on age or years of service. Eligible employees become 100%
    vested in their ESOP accounts upon the earlier of age 65 or
    completion of five years of service.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, we also issued
    2,568 shares under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan for an
    aggregate exercise price of approximately $190,000 to former
    employees or the estates of former employees.

We have a Performance Share Program that compensates senior
    management for meeting financial and non-financial objectives
    over a three-year period. Objectives are set at the beginning of
    the three-year period and

58

Table of Contents   

the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors determines
    achievement against the goals at the end of such period, setting
    the amount of the award at that time. The performance shares are
    generally paid out over a two- or three-year period. In January
    2004, we paid out 87,329 and 224,926 shares of common stock
    to senior management under our Performance Share Program for the
    three-year performance share cycles that ended in 2001 and 2002,
    respectively. Additionally, we determined that senior management
    was entitled to receive 662,780 shares of common stock
    under our Performance Share Program for the three-year
    performance share cycle that ended in 2003, of which
    366,428 shares were paid out in 2004, and the balance of
    which was scheduled to be paid out in January 2005. Of the
    678,683 aggregate shares of common stock that were paid out in
    2004 under our Performance Share Program, 444,281 shares of
    common stock were issued and 234,402 shares of common stock
    that otherwise would have been issued were withheld in lieu of
    requiring the recipients to pay the withholding taxes due to us
    at the time of issuance. As previously announced, and in
    connection with the restatement of our consolidated financial
    statements, because we did not have reliable financial data for
    years within the award cycles, the Compensation Committee and
    the Board decided to postpone the determination of the amount of
    the awards under the Performance Share Program for the
    three-year performance share cycles that ended in 2004 and 2005,
    and to postpone payment of the second installment of shares for
    the three-year performance share cycle that ended in 2003 (the
    first installment of which was paid in January 2004). In the
    future, the Compensation Committee and the Board will review the
    Performance Share Program and determine the appropriate approach
    for settling its obligations with respect to the existing unpaid
    performance share cycles.

The securities we issue are  exempted securities 
    under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act to the same extent
    as obligations of, or guaranteed as to principal and interest
    by, the United States. As a result, we do not file registration
    statements with the SEC with respect to offerings of our
    securities.

59

Table of Contents   

Purchases
    of Equity Securities by the Issuer  

The following table shows shares of our common stock we
    repurchased during 2004, 2005 and the first three quarters of
    2006.

60

Table of Contents   

(1)   

In addition to shares repurchased
    as part of the publicly announced programs described in
    footnote 2 below, these shares consist of:
    (a) 563,229 shares of common stock reacquired from
    employees to pay an aggregate of approximately
    $33.1 million in withholding taxes due upon the vesting of
    restricted stock; (b) 92,590 shares of common stock
    reacquired from employees to pay an aggregate of approximately
    $4.8 million in withholding taxes due upon the exercise of
    stock options; (c) 321,405 shares of common stock
    repurchased from employees and members of our Board of Directors
    to pay an aggregate exercise price of approximately
    $15.8 million for stock options; and
    (d) 14,430 shares of common stock repurchased from
    employees in a limited number of instances relating to
    employees  financial hardship.

(2)   

Consists of
    (a) 7,100,200 shares of common stock purchased
    pursuant to our publicly announced share repurchase program in
    open market transactions effected in compliance with SEC
     Rule 10b-18, 
    and (b) 38,217 shares of common stock repurchased from
    employees pursuant to our publicly announced employee stock
    repurchase program. On January 21, 2003, we publicly
    announced that the Board of Directors had approved a share
    repurchase program (the  General Repurchase
    Authority ) under which we could purchase in open market
    transactions the sum of (a) up to 5% of the shares of
    common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2002
    (49.4 million shares) and (b) additional shares to
    offset stock issued or expected to be issued under our employee
    benefit plans. On May 9, 2006, we announced that the Board
    of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program (the
     Employee Stock Repurchase Program ) under which we
    may repurchase up to $100 million of Fannie Mae shares from
    non-officer employees. Neither the General Repurchase Authority
    nor the Employee Stock Repurchase Program has a specified
    expiration date.

(3)   

Consists of the total number of
    shares that may yet be purchased under the General Repurchase
    Authority as of the end of the month, including the number of
    shares that may be repurchased to offset stock that may be
    issued pursuant to the Stock Compensation Plan of 1993 and the
    Stock Compensation Plan of 2003. Repurchased shares are first
    offset against any issuances of stock under our employee benefit
    plans. To the extent that we repurchase more shares than have
    been issued under our plans in a given month, the excess number
    of shares is deducted from the 49.4 million shares approved
    for repurchase under the General Repurchase Authority. Because
    of new stock issuances and expected issuances pursuant to new
    grants under our employee benefit plans, the number of shares
    that may be purchased under the General Repurchase Authority
    fluctuates from month to month. No shares were repurchased from
    August 2004 through September 30, 2006 in the open market
    pursuant to the General Repurchase Authority. See  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements Note 13, Stock-Based
    Compensation Plans,  for information about shares issued,
    shares expected to be issued, and shares remaining available for
    grant under our employee benefit plans. Excludes the remaining
    number of shares authorized to be repurchased under the Employee
    Stock Repurchase Program. Assuming a price per share of $55.93,
    the average of the high and low stock prices of Fannie Mae
    common stock on September 30, 2006, approximately
    1.8 million shares may yet be purchased under the Employee
    Stock Repurchase Program.

61

Table of Contents   

Item 6.    

Selected
    Financial Data  

The selected consolidated financial data presented below is
    summarized from our results of operations for the three-year
    period ended December 31, 2004 (restated for 2003 and
    2002), as well as selected consolidated balance sheet data as of
    December 31, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001. All restatement
    adjustments relating to periods prior to January 1, 2002
    have been presented as adjustments to retained earnings as of
    December 31, 2001. In light of the substantial time, effort
    and expense incurred since December 2004 to complete the
    restatement of our consolidated financial statements for 2003
    and 2002, we have determined that extensive additional efforts
    would be required to restate all 2001 and 2000 financial data.
    In particular, significant complexities of accounting standards,
    turnover of relevant personnel, and limitations of systems and
    data all limit our ability to reconstruct additional financial
    information for 2001 and 2000. Previously published information
    for 2001 and 2000 should not be relied upon.

62

Table of Contents   

(1)   

Includes investment losses,
    net; debt extinguishment losses, net; loss from partnership
    investments; and fee and other income.

(2)   

Unpaid principal balance of Fannie
    Mae MBS acquired by third-party investors during the reporting
    period.

(3)   

Unpaid principal balance of
    mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities we purchased for
    our portfolio during the reporting period.

(4)   

Balance as of December 31,
    2001 primarily represents the fair value of forward purchases of
    TBA mortgage securities that were in a loss position.

(5)   

The sum of (a) the stated
    value of outstanding common stock (common stock less treasury
    stock); (b) the stated value of outstanding non-cumulative
    perpetual preferred stock;
     (c) paid-in-capital; 
    and (d) retained earnings. Core capital excludes
    accumulated other comprehensive income.

(6)   

The sum of (a) core capital
    and (b) the total allowance for loan losses and reserve for
    guaranty losses, less (c) the specific loss allowance (that
    is, the allowance required on individually-impaired loans).

(7)   

Unpaid principal balance of
    mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities held in our
    portfolio.

63

Table of Contents   

(8)   

Unpaid principal balance of Fannie
    Mae MBS held by third-party investors. The principal balance of
    resecuritized Fannie Mae MBS is included only once.

(9)   

Net income available to common
    stockholders divided by average total assets.

(10)   

Net income available to common
    stockholders divided by average outstanding common equity.

(11)   

Average stockholders  equity
    divided by average total assets.

(12)   

Common dividend payments divided by
    net income available to common stockholders.

(13)   

Guaranty fee income as a percentage
    of average outstanding Fannie Mae MBS and other guaranties.

(14)   

Charge-offs, net of recoveries and
    foreclosed property expense (income), as a percentage of the
    average mortgage credit book of business.

(15)   

Earnings  includes
    reported income before extraordinary gains (losses), net of tax
    effect and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle,
    net of tax effect plus (a) provision for federal income
    taxes, minority interest in earnings of consolidated
    subsidiaries, loss from partnership investments, capitalized
    interest and total interest expense.  Combined fixed
    charges and preferred stock dividends and issuance costs at
    redemption  includes (a) fixed charges
    (b) preferred stock dividends and issuance costs on
    redemptions of preferred stock, defined as pretax earnings
    required to pay dividends on outstanding preferred stock using
    our effective income tax rate for the relevant periods. Fixed
    charges represent total interest expense and capitalized
    interest.

Notes  

*  
     
    Average balances for purposes of the ratio calculations are
    based on beginning and end of year balances.

64

Table of Contents   

Item 7.    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  

ORGANIZATION
    OF MD&A  

We intend for our MD&A to provide information that will
    assist in better understanding our consolidated financial
    statements. This section explains the changes in certain key
    items in our consolidated financial statements from year to
    year, the primary factors driving those changes, our risk
    management processes and results, any known trends or
    uncertainties of which we are aware that we believe may have a
    material effect on our future performance, as well as how
    certain accounting principles affect our consolidated financial
    statements. Our MD&A also provides information about our
    three complementary business segments in order to explain how
    the activities of each segment impact our results of operations
    and financial condition. This discussion also addresses the
    accounting errors that resulted in the restatement of our
    consolidated financial statements for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the six months ended
    June 30, 2004, and the impact of the restatement on our
    previously reported financial results.

Our MD&A is organized as follows:

Executive Summary

Restatement

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Consolidated Results of Operations

Business Segment Results

Supplemental Non-GAAP Information Fair Value Balance
    Sheet

Risk Management

Liquidity and Capital Management

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Impact of Future Adoption of Accounting Pronouncements

2004 Quarterly Review

This discussion should be read in conjunction with our
    consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2004
    and the notes accompanying those consolidated financial
    statements. Readers should also review carefully
     Item 1 Business Forward-Looking
    Statements  and  Item 1A Risk Factors 
    for a description of the forward-looking statements in this
    report and a discussion of the factors that might cause our
    actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from these
    forward-looking statements. Readers may refer to
     Item 1 Business Glossary of Terms Used in
    this Report  for an explanation of key terms used
    throughout this discussion. Unless otherwise noted, all
    financial information provided in this report gives effect to
    our restatement as described in  Restatement. 

EXECUTIVE
    SUMMARY  

Our
    Mission and Business  

We are a stockholder-owned corporation (NYSE: FNM) chartered by
    the U.S. Congress to support liquidity and stability in the
    secondary mortgage market. Our business includes three
    integrated business segments Single-Family Credit Guaranty,
    Housing and Community Development and Capital Markets that
    work together to provide services, products and solutions to our
    lender customers and a broad range of housing partners.
    Together, our business segments contribute to our chartered
    mission objectives, helping to increase the total amount of
    funds available to finance housing in the United States and to
    make homeownership more available and affordable for low-,
    moderate- and middle-income Americans. We also work with our
    customers and partners to increase the availability and
    affordability of rental housing.

65

Table of Contents   

In our  Single-Family  and  HCD  business segments, we
    securitize mortgage loans delivered to us by mortgage lenders
    and then return Fannie Mae MBS to the lenders. We generally
    guarantee to the MBS trust that we will supplement mortgage loan
    collections as required to permit timely payment of principal
    and interest due on the related Fannie Mae MBS. Our Fannie Mae
    MBS are generally highly liquid, enabling mortgage lenders to
    raise capital to fund additional mortgage loans by selling the
    Fannie Mae MBS in the secondary mortgage market. We generate
    revenues in our Single-Family business segment primarily from
    the guaranty fees the segment receives as compensation for
    assuming the credit risk on the mortgage loans underlying
    single-family Fannie Mae MBS and on the single-family mortgage
    loans held in our portfolio.

Our  HCD  business also engages in a number of additional
    activities designed to expand the supply of affordable housing
    in America. These activities, which are described in detail in
     Item 1 Business Segments Housing and
    Community Development,  include investing in affordable
    rental properties that qualify for low-income housing tax
    credits; making equity investments in affordable for-sale and
    rental housing; and providing loans and credit support to
    housing finance agencies and other public entities to support
    their affordable housing efforts. Revenues in the segment are
    derived from a variety of sources, including the guaranty fees
    the segment receives as compensation for assuming the credit
    risk on the mortgage loans underlying multifamily Fannie Mae MBS
    and on the multifamily mortgage loans held in our portfolio,
    transaction fees associated with the multifamily business and
    bond credit enhancement fees. In addition, HCD s
    investments in housing projects eligible for the low-income
    housing tax credit and other investments generate both tax
    credits and net operating losses that reduce our federal income
    tax liability.

In our  Capital Markets  group, our principal business is
    the purchase and sale of mortgage loans and mortgage-related
    assets through a full range of economic and competitive cycles.
    By maintaining a constant, reliable presence as an active
    investor in mortgage assets, we support liquidity and increase
    the stability of the pricing of mortgage loans in the secondary
    mortgage market. To fund our investment activities, our Capital
    Markets group issues Fannie Mae debt securities that attract
    capital from investors globally to support housing in the United
    States. Our Capital Markets group generates income primarily
    from the difference, or spread, between the yield on the
    mortgage assets we own and the cost of the debt we issue to fund
    these assets. Through our investment activities, we seek to
    maximize total returns, subject to our risk constraints, while
    fulfilling our chartered liquidity function.

Our businesses are self-sustaining and funded exclusively with
    private capital. The U.S. government does not guarantee,
    directly or indirectly, our securities or other obligations.

We operate our three business segments with oversight by our
    Board of Directors. Relevant committees of the Board (Audit
    Committee, Risk Policy and Capital Committee, Nominating and
    Corporate Governance Committee, Compensation Committee,
    Technology and Operations Committee, Compliance Committee,
    Housing and Community Finance Committee and Executive Committee)
    engage on matters within their respective charters. We encourage
    management and employees to have frequent and open dialogue with
    the Board.

Our non-executive Chairman of the Board is an important link
    between the Board and the company, and our CEO sits on the Board
    to ensure translation of Board policies into business
    activities. Within the company, the CEO works with the
    Management Executive Committee, comprised primarily of officers
    directly reporting to him, to develop, implement and execute the
    company s plans and strategy. Our strategy is managed as a
    set of initiatives, which are typically assigned to individual
    executives within each business. The Management Executive
    Committee tracks these initiatives throughout the year and
    regularly reviews progress with management and the Board. We
    have established cross-functional management committees to
    ensure appropriate focus and effective decision-making in
    critical areas such as risk management, operations, compliance
    and disclosure.

Managing
    Our Risk  

Our business activities expose us to four primary risks: credit
    risk, market risk (including interest rate risk), operational
    risk and liquidity risk. Effectively managing these risks is a
    principal focus of our organization, a key determinant of our
    success in achieving our mission and business objectives, and is
    critical to our safety

66

Table of Contents   

and soundness. A detailed discussion of our risk management
    strategies, processes and measures is included in  Risk
    Management  below.

We devoted significant resources in 2005 and 2006 to addressing
    weaknesses identified in our risk governance structure and to
    ensuring that we have the personnel, processes and controls in
    place to allow us to achieve our risk management objectives. In
    2005, we adopted an enhanced corporate risk governance
    framework, including the creation of a corporate risk oversight
    function led by a Chief Risk Officer who reports directly to our
    Chief Executive Officer and independently to the Risk Policy and
    Capital Committee of the Board of Directors.

Our businesses have responsibility for managing the
     day-to-day 
    risks inherent in our business activities. Risk management at
    the business level is conducted in accordance with
    enterprise-wide corporate risk policies approved by our Board of
    Directors.

Our Single-Family and HCD businesses have responsibility for
    managing the credit risk inherent in the mortgage loans and
    Fannie Mae MBS that we either hold in our portfolio or
    guarantee. We take a disciplined approach in managing credit
    risk. We believe our mortgage credit book of business has strong
    credit characteristics, as measured by
     loan-to-value 
    ratios, credit scores and other loan characteristics that
    reflect the effectiveness of our credit risk management
    strategy. Our credit losses for the period 2002 to 2004 have
    remained at what we consider to be low levels, averaging
    approximately 0.01% of our mortgage credit book of business. A
    detailed discussion of our credit risk management strategies and
    results can be found in  Risk Management Credit Risk
    Management. 

Our Capital Markets group is responsible for managing the
    interest rate risk inherent in the mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities that we purchase and the debt we
    issue. The objective of our interest rate risk management
    strategy is to maintain a conservative, disciplined approach to
    managing interest rate risk. A detailed discussion of our
    interest rate risk management strategy and results can be found
    in  Risk Management Interest Rate Risk Management and
    Other Market Risks  below. Our Capital Markets group is
    also responsible for managing the credit risk of the non-Fannie
    Mae mortgage-related securities in our portfolio.

Our
    Restatement  

In December 2004, we announced that we would restate our
    previously filed consolidated financial statements because those
    financial statements were prepared applying accounting practices
    that did not comply with GAAP. Since the time of our
    announcement, we have devoted substantial resources towards the
    completion of our restatement. We have worked closely with and
    benefited from the guidance of OFHEO, our safety and soundness
    regulator, throughout this process. We have also obtained
    assistance from a variety of resources, including
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, technology consulting firms and
    outside counsel.

The restatement process included a comprehensive review of our
    accounting policies and practices, implementing revised
    accounting policies, obtaining
     and/or 
    validating market values for various financial instruments at
    multiple points in time, and enhancing or developing new systems
    to track, value and account for our transactions. The
    restatement was a complex undertaking that required the
    dedicated efforts of thousands of financial and accounting
    professionals, including external consultants. As described
    below under  Consolidated Results of Operations Other
    Non-interest Expense Administrative Expenses,  our
    administrative expenses in 2005 and 2006 were substantially
    affected by costs associated with our restatement and related
    matters, which we estimate totaled $1.3 billion. We
    anticipate that the costs associated with preparation of our
    post-2004 financial statements and periodic SEC reports will
    continue to have a substantial impact on administrative expenses
    until we are current in filing our periodic financial reports
    with the SEC. As part of our settlements with OFHEO and the SEC,
    we paid a $400 million civil penalty, which has been
    recorded as an expense in our 2004 consolidated financial
    statements.

In this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    we have restated our previously filed audited consolidated
    financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003
    and 2002, and our unaudited consolidated financial statements
    for the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and June 30,
    2004. The restatement adjustments resulted in a cumulative net
    decrease in retained earnings of $6.3 billion as of
    June 30, 2004 and a cumulative net

67

Table of Contents   

increase in stockholders  equity of $4.1 billion as of
    June 30, 2004. The restatement adjustments also resulted in
    an increase in previously reported net income attributable to
    common stockholders of $176 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2003 and a reduction in previously reported
    net income attributable to common stockholders of
    $705 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. For
    more information on the background, details and results of our
    restatement efforts, please see  Restatement  below.

The filing of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2004 represents a
    significant achievement in our efforts to return to timely
    financial reporting. We believe that major elements of the
    restatement, including our comprehensive review of our
    accounting policies and practices, will contribute to a more
    expeditious completion of financial statements for the years
    ended December 31, 2005 and 2006.

Our
    Organizational Changes and Remediation Progress  

Using the findings of the OFHEO special examination, the Paul
    Weiss review and our own internal reviews of our business and
    the practices of other financial services companies as a guide,
    we have taken a number of steps to address specific identified
    weaknesses and to build a foundation for what we believe will be
    a fundamentally stronger and sounder company.

We believe the items highlighted below, in addition to specific
    remediation actions related to our accounting policies and
    practices, reflect significant remediation progress.

We have made significant changes to our Board of Directors,
    including the appointment of a non-executive Chairman of the
    Board, the creation of a Risk Policy and Capital Committee of
    the Board, the creation of a Technology and Operations Committee
    of the Board, and the re-designation of a new Compliance
    Committee of the Board composed entirely of independent
    directors. We have also added six new Board members with
    substantial experience and knowledge related to business
    operations, accounting and finance since our receipt of
    OFHEO s interim report in September 2004, including a new
    Chairman of the Audit Committee and three other new members of
    the Audit Committee.

We have made significant changes to our executive management
    team, including the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer
    and a new Chief Financial Officer. Over 35% of our senior
    officers, including our Chief Financial Officer, Controller,
    Chief Audit Executive, Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel and
    all senior officers in our Controller s and Accounting
    Policy functions, joined the company after December 2004.

We have initiated a comprehensive plan to transform our
    corporate culture into one focused on service, open and honest
    engagement, accountability and effective management practices.

We have modified our compensation practices to include
    non-financial metrics relating to our controls, culture and
    mission goals.

We have established an enterprise-wide risk oversight
    organization to oversee the management of credit risk, market
    risk and operational risk. We hired a new Chief Risk Officer to
    lead the build-out and responsibilities of this organization. In
    addition, we have implemented a new organizational risk
    structure that includes risk management personnel within each
    business unit.

We appointed a new Chief Audit Executive from outside the
    company, reporting directly to the Audit Committee of the Board
    of Directors. We have completed a comprehensive review of
    Internal Audit s organizational design and audit processes.
    We have filled the key management positions of Internal Audit
    with highly credentialed and experienced audit professionals,
    and we continue to enhance staffing in this area.

We have appointed a new Chief Compliance Officer and
    substantially enhanced the staffing and scope of our compliance
    function.

Our efforts to change the culture of our company, to implement
    effective controls and governance processes, to fully staff
    certain areas of our operations and to build out our
    infrastructure are ongoing. As noted in
     Item 1A Risk Factors,  we are still in the
    process of remediating the material weaknesses we had identified
    in our internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2004. Accordingly, we still have significant

68

Table of Contents   

remediation work remaining before we will be able to file
    periodic financial reports with the SEC and the NYSE on a timely
    basis. However, we believe the actions described above are
    representative of our commitment to making fundamental, lasting
    changes that will strengthen the governance, controls,
    operational discipline and culture of our organization.

Summary
    of Our Financial Results  

The financial performance discussed in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K is based on our consolidated financial results for the
    year ended December 31, 2004 and our restated consolidated
    financial results for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
    2002. Net income and diluted earnings per share totaled
    $5.0 billion and $4.94, respectively, in 2004, compared
    with $8.1 billion and $8.08 in 2003, and $3.9 billion
    and $3.81 in 2002. Below are highlights of our performance.

2004 versus 2003 

2003 versus 2002 

Our assets and liabilities consist predominately of financial
    instruments. We expect significant volatility from period to
    period in our financial results, due in part to the various
    manners in which we account for our financial instruments under
    GAAP. We routinely use fair value measures to make investment
    decisions and to measure, monitor and manage our risk. As
    described more fully in  Critical Accounting Policies and
    Estimates Fair Value of Financial Instruments,  we use
    various methodologies to estimate fair value depending on the
    nature of the instrument and availability of observable market
    information. However, under GAAP we are required to measure and
    record some financial instruments at fair value, while other
    financial instruments are recorded at historical cost. In
    addition, as summarized below, changes in the carrying values of
    financial instruments that we report at fair value in our
    consolidated balance sheets under GAAP are recognized in our
    results of operations in a variety of ways depending on the
    nature of the asset or liability.

We record derivatives, mortgage commitments and trading
    securities at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets and
    recognize changes in the fair value of those financial
    instruments in our net income.

We record
     available-for-sale 
    securities, retained interests and guaranty fee buy-ups at fair
    value in our consolidated balance sheets and recognize changes
    in the fair value of those financial instruments in accumulated
    other comprehensive income ( AOCI ), a component of
    stockholders  equity.

We record held for sale mortgage loans at the lower of cost or
    market ( LOCOM ) in our consolidated balance sheets
    and recognize changes in the fair value (not to exceed the cost
    basis of these loans) in our net income.

At the inception of a guaranty contract, we estimate the fair
    value of the guaranty asset and guaranty obligation and record
    each of those amounts in our consolidated balance sheet. In each
    subsequent period, we reduce the guaranty asset for guaranty
    fees received and any impairment. We amortize the guaranty

69

Table of Contents   

obligation in proportion to the reduction of the guaranty asset
    and recognize the amortization as guaranty fee income in our net
    income. We do not record subsequent changes in the fair value of
    the guaranty asset or guaranty obligation in our consolidated
    financial statements. The guaranty assets are, however, reviewed
    for impairment.

We record debt instruments at amortized cost and recognize
    interest expense in our net interest income.

As a result of the variety of ways in which we record financial
    instruments in our consolidated financial statements, we expect
    our earnings to vary, perhaps substantially, from period to
    period and result in volatility in our stockholders  equity
    and regulatory capital. For example, we purchase mortgage assets
    and use a combination of debt and derivatives to fund those
    assets and manage the interest rate risk inherent in our
    mortgage investments. Our net income reflects changes in the
    fair value of the derivatives we use to manage interest rate
    risk; however, it does not reflect offsetting changes in the
    fair value of the majority of our mortgage investments and none
    of our debt obligations.

We do not evaluate or manage changes in the fair value of our
    various financial instruments on a stand-alone basis. Rather, we
    manage the interest rate exposure on our net assets, which
    includes all of our assets and liabilities, on an aggregate
    basis regardless of the manner in which changes in the fair
    value of different types of financial instruments are recorded
    in our consolidated financial statements. In  Supplemental
    Non-GAAP Information Fair Value Balance Sheet, 
    we provide a fair value balance sheet that presents all of our
    assets and liabilities on a comparable basis. Management uses
    the fair value balance sheet, in conjunction with other risk
    management measures, to assess our risk profile, evaluate the
    effectiveness of our risk management strategies and adjust our
    risk management decisions as necessary. Because the fair value
    of our net assets reflects the full impact of management s
    actions as well as current market conditions, management uses
    this information to assess performance and gauge how much
    management is adding to the long-term value of the company as
    well as to understand how the overall value of the company is
    changing. Our consolidated GAAP balance sheet as of
    December 31, 2004 reflects an increase in the reported
    value of our net assets of $6.6 billion from the prior
    year, while our consolidated fair value balance sheet as of
    December 31, 2004 reflects an increase in the fair value of
    our net assets of $11.7 billion.

Our
    Market  

Our business operates within the U.S. residential mortgage
    market, which represents a major portion of the domestic capital
    markets. As of June 30, 2006, the latest date for which
    data was available, the Federal Reserve estimated that total
    U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding was
    approximately $10.5 trillion. This compares with total
    U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding of $6.9
    trillion, $7.7 trillion, $8.9 trillion and $10.1 trillion for
    the years 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively.
    U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding has increased
    each year from 1945 to 2005, at an average annualized rate of
    approximately 10.6%. For the years 2002 through 2005, growth in
    U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding was particularly
    strong, growing at an estimated annual rate of nearly 13% in
    2002 and 2003, approximately 15% in 2004 and approximately 14%
    in 2005. Our book of business, which includes both mortgage
    assets we hold in our mortgage portfolio and our Fannie Mae MBS
    held by third parties, was $2.4 trillion as of June 30,
    2006, representing nearly 23% of total U.S. residential
    mortgage debt outstanding.

In 2006, growth in U.S. residential mortgage debt
    outstanding and home price appreciation has slowed from recent
    high levels. The annualized growth rate for
    U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding slowed to 9.6%
    in the second quarter of 2006. According to the OFHEO House
    Price Index, home prices increased at a 3.45% annualized rate in
    the third quarter of 2006, which represents a substantial
    decline in home price appreciation from the double-digit growth
    recorded for each of the prior two years. We expect that growth
    in U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding will continue
    at a slower pace in 2007, as the housing market continues to
    cool and home price gains moderate further or possibly decline
    modestly. However, due to the cumulative appreciation in home
    prices during the past several years, affordability continues to
    pose a challenge for many potential homebuyers. The volume of
    non-traditional mortgage products, including interest-only and
     negative-amortizing 
    mortgage loans, remains high as consumers continue to struggle
    with affordability issues. Additionally, the sub-prime and Alt-A
    mortgage originations that account for a large portion of the
    growth in market share of

70

Table of Contents   

private-label issuers of mortgage-related securities in recent
    years continue to represent an elevated level of originations by
    historical standards.

Over the next decade, we expect demographic demand (primarily
    from stable household formation rates, a positive age structure
    of the population for homebuying and rising homeownership rates
    due to the high level of immigration over the past
    25 years) that suggests a fundamentally strong mortgage
    market. We believe that these and other underlying demographic
    factors will support continued long-term demand for new capital
    to finance the substantial and sustained housing finance needs
    of American homebuyers.

RESTATEMENT  

Overview  

Background.   In September 2004, OFHEO delivered
    to our Board of Directors an interim report of its findings,
    through that date, of its special examination of our accounting
    policies and internal controls. OFHEO s interim report
    concluded that we misapplied GAAP in specified areas, including
    hedge accounting and the amortization of purchase premiums and
    discounts on securities and loans and on other deferred charges.
    The interim report also identified numerous control weaknesses
    relating to, among other matters, our processes for estimating
    amortization and developing and implementing accounting
    policies. The control weaknesses identified by the interim
    report included inadequate segregation of duties, key person
    dependencies, and a lack of written procedures and supporting
    documentation.

Following the receipt of OFHEO s interim report, we
    requested that the SEC s Office of the Chief Accountant
    review our accounting practices relating to hedge accounting and
    to our amortization of purchase premiums and discounts on
    securities and loans and on other deferred charges. On
    December 15, 2004, the SEC s Office of the Chief
    Accountant announced that it had advised us to (1) restate
    our financial statements filed with the SEC to eliminate the use
    of hedge accounting, and (2) evaluate our accounting for
    the amortization of premiums and discounts, and restate our
    financial statements filed with the SEC if the amounts required
    for correction were material. The SEC s Office of the Chief
    Accountant also advised us to reevaluate the GAAP and non-GAAP
    information that we previously provided to investors,
    particularly in view of the decision that hedge accounting was
    not appropriate.

Announcement of Restatement and Non-reliance on Previous
    Financial Statements.   On December 16, 2004,
    we announced that we would comply fully with the determination
    of the SEC s Office of the Chief Accountant. On
    December 17, 2004, the Audit Committee of our Board of
    Directors concluded that our previously filed interim and
    audited consolidated financial statements for the periods from
    January 2001 through the second quarter of 2004 should no longer
    be relied upon because these financial statements were prepared
    applying accounting practices that did not comply with GAAP.

Replacement of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm.   On December 21, 2004, the Audit
    Committee of the Board of Directors dismissed the firm of KPMG
    LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm and,
    effective January 28, 2005, engaged Deloitte &
    Touche LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm.

Changes to Senior Management.   On
    December 21, 2004, our Board of Directors appointed Stephen
    B. Ashley to serve as non-executive Chairman of the Board, and
    appointed Daniel H. Mudd as interim Chief Executive Officer and
    Robert J. Levin as interim Chief Financial Officer to replace
    Franklin D. Raines as Chairman of the Board of Directors and
    Chief Executive Officer, and Timothy Howard as Chief Financial
    Officer. In addition to our Chief Financial Officer, all of our
    other senior financial officers, including the previous
    Controller and previous Chief Audit Executive, were replaced
    following the discovery and announcement of the accounting
    errors discussed above. The Board of Directors subsequently
    appointed Daniel H. Mudd as Chief Executive Officer and Robert
    T. Blakely as Chief Financial Officer. The Board appointed
    Daniel H. Mudd as CEO following the completion of an executive
    search effort overseen by a subcommittee of the Board comprised
    of independent Board members and utilizing the services of an
    executive search firm.

71

Table of Contents   

Restatement of Prior Consolidated Financial
    Statements.   Our restatement process began in
    December 2004. Due to the significant complexities associated
    with our restatement and the lack of effective internal control
    over financial reporting, the restatement process has required
    an extensive effort by thousands of financial and accounting
    professionals, including both employees and external
    consultants. The restatement process has included thoroughly and
    comprehensively reviewing our accounting policies and practices
    to ensure compliance with GAAP; implementing revised accounting
    policies; obtaining
     and/or 
    validating market values for our various financial instruments
    at multiple points in time over the restatement period; and
    enhancing or developing new systems to track, value and account
    for our transactions. Beyond the initial errors identified by
    our regulators, we also identified additional errors in our
    accounting and a substantial number of material weaknesses in
    our internal control over financial reporting, including a
    material weakness relating to our application of GAAP. See
     Item 9A Controls and Procedures  for a
    description of these material weaknesses, as well as our
    remediation activities relating to these material weaknesses.

We have restated our previously reported audited consolidated
    financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003
    and 2002, as well as our unaudited consolidated financial
    statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and
    June 30, 2004. We have also restated our previously
    reported December 31, 2001 balance sheet to reflect
    corrected items that relate to prior periods. As described in
    more detail below, the cumulative impact of the restatement
    adjustments resulted in:

Stockholders  equity increased despite a decrease in
    retained earnings. This was because AOCI restatement adjustments
    were significantly higher than retained earnings restatement
    adjustments. Our restatement adjustments resulted in an increase
    in AOCI of $10.4 billion, a decrease in retained earnings
    of $6.3 billion and an increase of $91 million in
    other equity changes as of June 30, 2004. The most
    significant causes of the $10.4 billion AOCI adjustments
    were the reversal of previously recorded derivative cash flow
    hedge adjustments and the recognition of fair value adjustments
    on
     available-for-sale 
    securities that were previously classified as
     held-to-maturity 
    securities and recorded at amortized cost. The most significant
    cause of the $6.3 billion retained earnings adjustments was
    the recognition in income of fair value adjustments associated
    with derivatives due to the loss of hedge accounting.

Overall
    Impact  

The overall impact of our restatement was a total reduction in
    retained earnings of $6.3 billion through June 30,
    2004. This amount includes:

We previously estimated that errors in accounting for derivative
    instruments, including mortgage commitments, would result in a
    total of $10.8 billion in after-tax cumulative losses
    through December 31, 2004. In a subsequent
     12b-25 
    filing in August 2006, we confirmed our estimate of after-tax
    cumulative losses on derivatives of $8.4 billion, but
    disclosed that our previous estimate of $2.4 billion in
    after-tax cumulative losses on mortgage commitments would be
    significantly less. We did not provide estimates of the effects
    on net income or retained earnings of any other accounting
    errors, nor did we provide any estimates of the effects of our
    restatement on total assets, total liabilities or
    stockholders  equity. As reflected in the results we are
    reporting in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    our retained earnings as of December 31, 2004 includes
    after-tax cumulative losses on derivatives of $8.4 billion
    and after-tax cumulative net gains on derivative mortgage
    commitments of $535 million, net of related amortization,
    for a total after-tax cumulative impact as of

72

Table of Contents   

December 31, 2004 of approximately $7.9 billion
    related to these two restatement items. As a result of the
    restatement and our recognition of the $8.4 billion in the
    periods the losses were incurred, we will not amortize the
    $8.4 billion through earnings in future periods. Under our
    prior accounting, we would have amortized through earnings
    amounts related to closed derivatives positions while open
    derivatives positions would continue to have changes in fair
    value deferred and recognized in AOCI according to the hedge
    accounting guidelines. Of the $8.4 billion recognized from
    restating our derivatives accounting, $8.0 billion of
    closed derivatives positions would have amortized through
    earnings, with approximately $3.6 billion of that amount
    amortizing during the period from 2005 through 2009, and the
    remaining $4.4 billion amortizing from 2010 through 2038.
    With respect to commitments, the after-tax cumulative net gains
    on derivative mortgage commitments of $535 million, net of
    related amortization, will be recognized in future periods as a
    reduction to our earnings.

Except to the extent otherwise specified, all information
    presented in the consolidated financial statements includes all
    such restatements and adjustments.

Summary
    of Restatement Adjustments  

The cumulative restatement period extended through June 30,
    2004, which is the last period for which we filed a periodic
    report with the SEC. We have classified our restatement
    adjustments into the seven primary categories as set forth in
    the table below. These categories involve subjective judgments
    by management regarding classification of amounts and particular
    accounting errors that may fall within more than one category.
    While such classifications are not required under GAAP,
    management believes these classifications may assist investors
    in understanding the nature and impact of the corrections made
    in completing the restatement.

73

Table of Contents   

Table
    1:  Cumulative Impact of Restatement  

(1)   

Includes the impact of stock-based
    compensation dividend adjustments.

See the  Financial Statement Impact  section below for
    further details on the impact of the restatement adjustments in
    the consolidated financial statements for the restatement
    periods.

Debt
    and Derivatives   

We identified five errors associated with our debt and
    derivatives. The most significant error was that we incorrectly
    designated derivatives as cash flow or fair value hedges for
    accounting and reporting purposes. For derivatives designated as
    cash flow hedges, this error resulted in the recognition of
    changes in the fair value of these derivatives in AOCI in the
    consolidated balance sheets instead of in the consolidated
    statements of income. For derivatives designated as fair value
    hedges, this error resulted in the recognition of changes in the
    fair value of the hedged items as fair value adjustments in the
    consolidated balance sheets and as gain or loss in the
    consolidated statements of income. In conjunction with the
    review of these transactions, we identified the following
    additional errors associated with our debt and derivatives: we
    incorrectly excluded foreign exchange derivatives from netting
    adjustments for transactions executed with the same
    counterparty; we did

74

Table of Contents   

not record a small number of financial instruments as
    derivatives; we incorrectly valued certain option-based and
    foreign exchange derivatives; and we incorrectly calculated
    interest expense by using inappropriate estimates in our
    amortization of debt cost basis adjustments.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a cumulative pre-tax reduction in retained earnings
    of $12.1 billion as of December 31, 2003. This pre-tax
    loss, in combination with an incremental loss reflected in the
    2004 consolidated financial statements of $729 million,
    resulted in a cumulative reduction in pre-tax net income of
    $12.9 billion, or $8.4 billion after tax, as of
    December 31, 2004. These restatement adjustments also
    resulted in a reduction in total assets of $5.0 billion as
    of December 31, 2003, primarily from a reduction in
     Deferred tax assets  as a result of no longer
    applying hedge accounting and deferring losses. Additionally, we
    decreased total liabilities by $9.1 billion as of
    December 31, 2003, primarily from no longer recording debt
    at fair value due to the loss of hedge accounting as well as
    correcting the amortization of debt cost basis adjustments. The
    effect from the change in debt cost basis adjustments, in turn,
    had the effect of increasing the amount of  Debt
    extinguishment losses, net  recognized in the consolidated
    statements of income. Each of the errors that resulted in these
    adjustments is described below.

We incorrectly classified derivatives as cash flow or fair value
    hedges for accounting and reporting purposes, even though they
    did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment pursuant to
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    ( SFAS ) No. 133 , Accounting for
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
     ( SFAS 133 ). The primary reasons for the
    loss of hedge accounting treatment were the improper use of the
     shortcut  method as defined by SFAS 133 and
    inadequate assessments of hedge effectiveness and
    ineffectiveness measurement, both at hedge inception and at each
    reporting period thereafter. In other instances, hedging
    relationships were not properly documented at the inception of
    the hedge. Under cash flow hedge accounting, we initially
    recorded unrealized gains or losses on derivatives in AOCI in
    the consolidated balance sheets to be recognized into income in
    subsequent periods. Under fair value hedge accounting, we
    recorded unrealized gains or losses on derivatives in the
    consolidated statements of income offset by unrealized gains or
    losses on the asset or liability being hedged. The impact of
    correcting errors on derivatives that were previously classified
    as cash flow hedges resulted in the reversal of all previously
    recorded fair value adjustments in AOCI and the recognition of
    these fair value adjustments in  Derivatives fair value
    losses, net  in the consolidated statements of income. The
    impact of correcting errors on derivatives that were previously
    classified as fair value hedges resulted in the reversal of
    previously recorded fair value adjustments recorded on the
    hedged items. As the majority of these derivatives were
    designated as hedges against debt, the reversal of fair value
    adjustments resulted in a reduction of  Short-term
    debt  and  Long-term debt  in the consolidated
    balance sheets and changes in  Interest expense  in
    the consolidated statements of income. This error impacted all
    previously reported results and varied substantially from period
    to period based on the portfolio size and prevailing interest
    rates.

We incorrectly excluded foreign exchange derivatives from
    netting adjustments for transactions executed with the same
    counterparty where we had the legal right and intent to offset
    pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board
    ( FASB ) Interpretation ( FIN ) No. 39,
     Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts (an
    interpretation of APB Opinion No. 10 and FASB Statement
    No. 105) . As a result, the amounts of derivative assets
    and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets were
    misstated. The impact of correcting this error changed the
    reported amount of derivative assets and liabilities in the
    consolidated balance sheets.

We did not record a small number of financial instruments that
    met the definition of a derivative pursuant to SFAS 133,
    which resulted in a misstatement of derivative assets and
    liabilities at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets.
    The correction of this error resulted in the recognition of
    derivative assets and liabilities at fair value with subsequent
    changes in the fair value of these derivatives recognized in the
    consolidated statements of income.

We incorrectly valued certain option-based and foreign exchange
    derivatives. We incorrectly valued certain option-based
    derivatives by using inaccurate volatility measures, which
    resulted in incorrect fair value adjustments to the previously
    reported consolidated financial statements. To correct this
    error, we revalued option-based derivatives with new volatility
    measures supported by market analysis and revalued foreign
    exchange derivatives. We also incorrectly recorded fair value
    adjustments on foreign exchange derivatives

75

Table of Contents   

previously accounted for as fair value hedges. We recorded
    adjustments on these derivatives equal to foreign currency
    translation adjustments of our foreign denominated debt. These
    foreign exchange derivatives should have been independently
    recorded at fair value. The impact of correcting this error
    resulted in changes in the fair value gain or loss associated
    with these derivatives, which was recognized in the consolidated
    statements of income.

We incorrectly calculated interest expense by using
    inappropriate estimates in our amortization of debt cost basis
    adjustments. We amortized discounts, premiums and other deferred
    price adjustments by amortizing these amounts through the
    expected call date of the borrowings as opposed to amortizing
    these amounts through the contractual maturity date of the
    borrowings. Additionally, we utilized a convention in the
    calculation that was based on the average number of days of
    interest in a month regardless of the days contractually agreed
    upon. We corrected these errors by recalculating amortization of
    these costs through the contractual maturity date of the
    respective borrowings and using the contractual number of days
    in the month. The correction of these errors resulted in changes
    in the recognition of  Interest expense  and
     Debt extinguishment losses, net  in the consolidated
    statements of income.

For the six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a
    pre-tax increase in net income of $3.0 billion related to
    the accounting errors described above. In combination with the
    effect of these errors through December 31, 2003 discussed
    above, the cumulative impact of the restatement of these errors
    on our consolidated financial statements was to decrease
    retained earnings by $9.1 billion as of June 30, 2004.
    The increase in net income in the six-month period ended
    June 30, 2004 was primarily the result of the loss of hedge
    accounting, as the remaining errors described above had minimal
    impact on restated results for the six-month period.

Commitments   

We identified five errors associated with mortgage loan and
    security commitments. The most significant errors were that we
    did not record certain mortgage loan and security commitments as
    derivatives under SFAS 133 and we incorrectly classified
    mortgage loan and security commitments as cash flow hedges,
    which resulted in changes in fair value not being reflected in
    earnings. We also incorrectly interpreted SFAS No. 149,
     Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities  ( SFAS 149 ), and
    therefore we incorrectly recorded a transition adjustment in
    2003. In conjunction with the review of these transactions, we
    identified the following additional errors associated with
    mortgage loan and security commitments: we did not record
    certain security commitments as securities and we incorrectly
    valued mortgage loan and security commitments.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a cumulative pre-tax increase in retained earnings
    of $4.0 billion as of December 31, 2003. This pre-tax
    increase, combined with a commitments-related gain of
    $135 million reflected in the 2004 consolidated financial
    statements, resulted in a cumulative pre-tax increase in
    retained earnings of $4.1 billion as of December 31,
    2004. The net impact on retained earnings, including tax effects
    and the $185 million after-tax charge to  Cumulative
    effect of change in accounting principle  as described
    below, was $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2004. After
    considering the increased amortization recognized in restatement
    attributable to the commitments adjustment, the total net impact
    of these commitment adjustments was an increase in retained
    earnings of $535 million, net of tax, as of
    December 31, 2004. Each of the errors that resulted in
    these adjustments is described below.

Prior to July 1, 2003, we did not record as derivatives
    mortgage loan and security commitments that were derivatives
    pursuant to SFAS 133, which resulted in a misstatement of
    our derivative assets and liabilities in the consolidated
    balance sheets. The impact of correcting this error resulted in
    the recognition of these commitments as derivatives at fair
    value in the consolidated balance sheets, with changes in the
    fair value of these commitments recorded in the consolidated
    statements of income. This error impacted previously reported
    results and varied substantially from period to period based on
    volume, prevailing interest rates and the market price of the
    underlying collateral. The correction of this error also
    resulted in recording cost basis adjustments to the acquired
    assets for the value of these derivatives as of their settlement
    date. These cost basis adjustments are amortized into interest
    income over the life of the acquired assets. The impact of this
    amortization is reflected in the  Amortization of Cost
    Basis Adjustments  section below.

76

Table of Contents   

We incorrectly classified mortgage loan and security commitments
    as cash flow hedges. The primary reasons we did not qualify for
    hedge accounting treatment were the lack of assessment of the
    effectiveness of the hedging relationship and the failure to
    adequately identify and document the forecasted transactions. As
    discussed above, under cash flow hedge accounting, we deferred
    unrealized gains or losses on derivatives in AOCI in the
    consolidated balance sheets. The impact of correcting this error
    resulted in the recognition of derivatives at fair value in the
    consolidated balance sheets, with changes in the fair value of
    these derivatives recognized in the consolidated statements of
    income. This error impacted previously reported results and
    varied substantially from period to period based on volume,
    prevailing interest rates and the market price of the underlying
    collateral.

As part of the adoption of SFAS 149 in 2003 ,  we
    incorrectly recorded a SFAS 149 transition adjustment that
    was not required because the commitments for which the
    transition adjustment was recorded should previously have been
    accounted for as derivatives under SFAS 133 or as
    securities under Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF )
    Issue
     No. 96-11, 
     Accounting for Forward Contracts and Purchased Options to
    Acquire Securities Covered by FASB Statement No. 115
     ( EITF 96-11 ). We also incorrectly recorded
    as derivatives certain multifamily mortgage loan commitments
    that did not qualify as derivatives. The transition adjustment
    originally recorded was an after-tax charge of $185 million
    in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended
    December 31, 2003 as a  Cumulative effect of change in
    accounting principle.  The impact of correcting these
    errors resulted in the removal of the fair value adjustments
    related to multifamily loan commitments and the reversal of the
    entire transition adjustment in the consolidated statement of
    income for the year ended December 31, 2003.

Prior to July 1, 2003, the effective date of SFAS 149,
    we did not account for certain qualifying security purchase
    commitments in the consolidated balance sheets pursuant to
    EITF 96-11, which resulted in a misstatement of
     Investments in securities  and AOCI in the
    consolidated balance sheets and related  Investment losses,
    net  in the consolidated statements of income associated
    with these commitments. The impact of correcting this error
    resulted in the recognition of these commitments as either
     trading  or
      available-for-sale  
    ( AFS ) securities, and the recognition of changes in
    the fair value of the securities in  Investment losses,
    net  in the consolidated statements of income for trading
    securities or in AOCI in the consolidated balance sheets for AFS
    securities.

We incorrectly valued mortgage loan and security commitments
    that we recorded as derivatives by utilizing inconsistent or
    inaccurate pricing. We corrected this error by revaluing
    mortgage loan and security commitment derivatives. The impact of
    correcting this error resulted in changes in unrealized gains or
    losses associated with these commitments in the consolidated
    statements of income and corresponding changes in derivatives at
    fair value in the consolidated balance sheets.

For the six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a
    pre-tax decrease in net income of $546 million related to
    the accounting errors described above. In combination with the
    effect of these errors through December 31, 2003 discussed
    above, the cumulative impact of the restatement of these errors
    on our consolidated financial statements was to increase
    retained earnings by $3.4 billion as of June 30, 2004.
    The decrease in net income in the six-month period ended
    June 30, 2004 was primarily the result of the loss of hedge
    accounting, as the remaining errors described above had minimal
    impact on restated results for the six-month period.

Investments
    in Securities   

We identified the accounting errors described below related to
    our investments in securities that resulted in a cumulative
    pre-tax reduction in retained earnings of $1.7 billion as
    of December 31, 2003.

Classification
    and Valuation of Securities  

We identified three errors associated with the classification
    and valuation of securities. The most significant error was that
    we incorrectly classified securities at acquisition as
      held-to-maturity  
    ( HTM ) that we did not intend to hold to maturity,
    which resulted in not recognizing changes in the fair value of
    these securities in AOCI or earnings. As a result of our review
    of acquired securities, we derecognized all previously recorded
    HTM securities recorded at amortized cost and recognized at fair
    value $419.5 billion and $69.5 billion of

77

Table of Contents   

AFS and trading securities, respectively, in 2003. Our holding
    of investments in trading securities is a significant change
    from our previously reported consolidated financial statements,
    as the majority of our investments in securities were
    historically classified as HTM. As a part of our review of these
    transactions, we identified the following additional errors: we
    incorrectly valued securities and we incorrectly classified
    certain dollar roll repurchase transactions as short-term
    borrowings instead of purchases and sales of securities.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a cumulative pre-tax decrease in retained earnings
    of $186 million as of December 31, 2003. These
    restatement adjustments also resulted in an increase of
    $2.4 billion in total assets and $37 million in total
    liabilities as of December 31, 2003. Each of the errors
    that resulted in these adjustments is described below.

We incorrectly classified securities as HTM pursuant to
    SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in
    Debt and Equity Securities  ( SFAS 115 ).
    SFAS 115 requires that securities be classified based on
    management s investment intent on the date of acquisition
    and that securities originally designated as HTM can only be
    reclassified if specified criteria are met. Previously, we
    selected HTM as a default designation on the date we acquired
    the security. Subsequently, we would select classification as
    either HTM or AFS at the end of the month in which the security
    was acquired. The effect of this error was that securities were
    incorrectly reclassified from HTM to AFS and the
    reclassification did not meet the criteria of SFAS 115 for
    such reclassification. The impact of correcting this error
    resulted in the classification of all securities previously
    classified as HTM securities as either AFS or trading
    securities, with changes in the fair value of securities
    classified as AFS recorded in AOCI and changes in the fair value
    of securities classified as trading recognized in
     Investment losses, net  in the consolidated
    statements of income. We discontinued the use of the HTM
    designation during the restatement period. In our restatement
    process, we corrected this error using information contained
    within the historical trade system to determine the original
    investment intent for each security and the appropriate
    classification. Fair value adjustments related to
     Investments in securities  resulted in an increase in
    AOCI of $2.3 billion for AFS securities as of
    December 31, 2003 in the consolidated balance sheet and a
    decrease of $100 million for trading securities for the
    year ended December 31, 2003 in  Investment losses,
    net  in the consolidated statement of income.

We had valuation errors associated with securities. We
    incorrectly recorded the cost basis for certain securities in
    connection with implementing a new settlement system in 2002. We
    also incorrectly accounted for certain securities on a
    settlement date basis rather than a trade date basis pursuant to
    Statement of Position ( SOP )
     No. 01-6, 
     Accounting by Certain Entities (Including Entities with Trade
    Receivables) That Lend to or Finance the Activities of
    Others . In addition, we incorrectly valued our previously
    reported AFS securities. To correct these errors, we revalued
    securities and corrected the cost basis of the impacted
    securities. The impact of correcting these errors resulted in a
    change in the realized and unrealized gains or losses associated
    with these securities as well as amortization of the cost basis
    adjustments in  Interest income  in the consolidated
    statements of income. The impact of the amortization of the
    revised cost basis adjustments is reflected in the
     Amortization of Cost Basis Adjustments  section below.

We enter into agreements referred to as  dollar roll
    repurchase transactions,  where we transfer MBS in exchange
    for funds and agree to repurchase substantially the same
    securities at a future date. We incorrectly classified some
    dollar roll repurchase transactions as secured borrowings as
    these repurchase transactions did not qualify for secured
    borrowing treatment under SFAS No. 125,  Accounting
    for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
    Extinguishments of Liabilities  ( SFAS 125 )
    and SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and
    Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities
    (a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125)
     ( SFAS 140 ). For transactions that did not
    qualify for secured borrowing treatment, the impact of
    correcting the errors resulted in the reversal of
     Short-term debt  in the consolidated balance sheets
    and the recognition of a sale or purchase of a security for each
    transaction, resulting in the recognition of gains and losses in
     Investment losses, net  in the consolidated
    statements of income.

Impairment
    of Securities  

We identified the following errors associated with the
    impairment of securities: we did not assess certain types of
    securities for impairment and we did not assess interest-only
    securities and lower credit quality investments for impairment.

78

Table of Contents   

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a cumulative pre-tax decrease in retained earnings
    of $1.5 billion and a decrease in total assets of
    $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2003. Additionally,
    for the six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a
    pre-tax increase in net income of $233 million, resulting
    from the reversal of historical impairment charges that were
    recorded in 2003 in the restated financial statements. Each of
    the errors that resulted in these adjustments is described below.

We did not appropriately assess certain securities for
    impairment due to deteriorated credit quality of the
    securities  underlying collateral and, in some cases,
    deteriorated credit quality of the securities  issuer
    during the restatement period. Included in this population of
    securities were investments in manufactured housing bonds.
    Additionally, when we recorded impairment, in certain
    circumstances we did not use contemporaneous market prices where
    available. To correct these errors, we remeasured securities and
    assessed them for credit-related impairments. The impact of
    correcting these errors resulted in a change in the carrying
    amount of these securities in the consolidated balance sheets
    and a reduction in net income recorded in  Investment
    losses, net  in the consolidated statements of income.

We did not assess interest-only securities and lower credit
    quality investments for impairment pursuant to EITF Issue
     No. 99-20, 
     Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
    Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That Continue to
    Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets
     ( EITF 99-20 ). In certain instances, we
    incorrectly combined interest-only and principal-only
    certificates issued from securitization trusts for impairment
    evaluation purposes even though the interest-only certificates
    could not be, or had not been, legally combined into a single
    security. To correct this error, we assessed these securities
    separately for impairment. The impact of correcting this error
    resulted in a decrease in the carrying amount of these
    securities in the consolidated balance sheets and a reduction in
    net income recorded in  Investment losses, net  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

For the six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a
    pre-tax decrease in net income of $142 million related to
    the accounting errors described above. In combination with the
    effect of these errors through December 31, 2003 discussed
    above, the cumulative impact of the restatement of these errors
    on our consolidated financial statements was to decrease
    retained earnings by $1.8 billion as of June 30, 2004.
    The decrease in net income in the six-month period ended
    June 30, 2004 was primarily the result of reversal of the
    held-to-maturity classification, as the remaining errors
    described above had minimal impact on restated results for the
    six-month period.

MBS
    Trust Consolidation and Sale Accounting   

We identified three errors associated with MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting: we incorrectly recorded asset
    sales that did not meet sale accounting criteria; we did not
    consolidate certain MBS trusts that were not considered
    qualifying special purpose entities ( QSPE ) and for
    which we were deemed to be the primary beneficiary or sponsor of
    the trust; and we did not consolidate certain MBS trusts in
    which we owned 100% of the securities issued by the trust and
    had the ability to unilaterally cause the trust to liquidate.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a cumulative pre-tax decrease in retained earnings
    of $166 million as of December 31, 2003. This was the
    result of the net change in the value of the assets and
    liabilities that were recognized and derecognized in conjunction
    with consolidation or sale activity. These restatement
    adjustments also resulted in an increase of $8.9 billion in
    total assets and an increase of $8.6 billion in total
    liabilities as of December 31, 2003. Each of the errors
    that resulted in these adjustments is described below.

We incorrectly recorded asset sales that did not meet the sale
    accounting criteria set forth in SFAS 125 and
    SFAS 140, primarily because the assets were transferred to
    an MBS trust that did not meet the QSPE criteria. To correct
    this error, we reviewed our MBS trusts and accounted for the
    transfers of assets that did not meet the sale accounting
    criteria as secured borrowings. The impact of correcting this
    error resulted in the derecognition of retained interest and
    recourse obligations recorded upon transfer of the assets, the
     re-recognition 
    of the transferred assets and the recognition of
     Short-term debt  or  Long-term debt  in the
    consolidated balance sheets to the extent of any proceeds
    received in connection with the transfer of assets.

79

Table of Contents   

Correcting this error also resulted in the reversal of any gains
    or losses related to these failed asset sales recorded in
     Investment losses, net  in the consolidated
    statements of income.

We failed to consolidate MBS trusts that were not considered
    QSPEs and for which we were deemed to be the primary beneficiary
    or sponsor of the trust. These entities included those to which
    we transferred assets in a transaction that initially qualified
    as a sale and for QSPE status, but where the trust subsequently
    failed to meet the criteria to be a QSPE, primarily because our
    ownership interests in the trust exceeded the threshold
    permitted for a QSPE. Additionally, these entities included
    those where we were not the transferor of assets to the trust,
    but where the trust is not considered a QSPE and our investments
    or guaranty contracts provide us with the majority of the
    expected losses or residual returns, as defined by
    FIN No. 46 (revised December 2003),  Consolidation
    of Variable Interest Entities (an interpretation of ARB
    No. 51)  ( FIN 46R ). To correct this
    error, we consolidated these trusts, then deconsolidated trusts
    when they no longer required consolidation.

We incorrectly did not consolidate MBS trusts in which we owned
    or acquired over time 100% of the related securities issued by
    the trust and had the ability to unilaterally liquidate the
    trust. To correct this error, we consolidated those MBS trusts
    in which we had the unilateral ability to liquidate and
    deconsolidated these trusts when we no longer had the unilateral
    ability to liquidate.

Correcting these errors related to MBS trust consolidation and
    sale accounting resulted in a decrease in  Investments in
    securities  of $154.0 billion, an increase in
     Mortgage loans  of $162.8 billion and an
    increase in debt of $9.9 billion as of December 31,
    2003.

In situations where we were required to consolidate an MBS
    trust, we derecognized the MBS recorded in the consolidated
    balance sheets as  Investments in securities  and
    recognized the underlying assets held by the trust, either as
    mortgage loans or mortgage-related securities. Loans that were
    consolidated from trusts in which we were the transferor have
    been classified as held for sale ( HFS ) and are
    recorded at the lower of cost or market, whereas loans that were
    consolidated from trusts in which we were not the transferor
    have been classified as held for investment ( HFI )
    and recorded at amortized cost. Mortgage-related securities that
    were consolidated from trusts have been classified as AFS
    securities. We also derecognized assets and liabilities
    associated with our guaranty and master servicing arrangements
    associated with the consolidated MBS trusts and recognized these
    amounts as cost basis adjustments to  Mortgage loans 
    in the consolidated balance sheets, where applicable. The impact
    of the amortization of this cost basis adjustment is reflected
    in the  Amortization of Cost Basis Adjustments 
    section below. For consolidated MBS trusts in which we owned
    less than 100% of the related securities, we recorded short-term
    or long-term debt in the consolidated balance sheets for the
    portion of the security position due to third parties.

Correcting these errors related to MBS trust consolidation and
    sale accounting also impacted the consolidated statements of
    income. We recorded an additional loss of $230 million and
    $26 million in  Investments losses, net  in the
    consolidated statements of income for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily due to
    reversing previously recorded asset sales. As a result of
    adopting FIN 46R, we consolidated certain MBS trusts
    created prior to February 1, 2003 and recorded a
    $34 million gain in  Cumulative effect of change in
    accounting principle, net of tax effect  in the
    consolidated statement of income for the year ended
    December 31, 2003. For MBS trusts created after
    January 31, 2003 and that were consolidated due to the
    application of FIN 46R, we recorded a $195 million
    gain in  Extraordinary gains (losses), net of tax
    effect  in the consolidated statement of income for the
    year ended December 31, 2003, reflecting the difference
    between the fair value of the consolidated assets and
    liabilities and the carrying amount of our interest in the MBS
    trust. In addition, we recorded a decrease in  Guaranty fee
    income  of $247 million and $198 million and an
    increase in  Interest income  of $594 million and
    $710 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
    2002, respectively, as a result of derecognizing our guaranty
    assets and obligations and recognizing cost basis adjustments to
    the consolidated mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities.

For the six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a
    pre-tax decrease in net income of $185 million related to
    the accounting errors described above. In combination with the
    effect of these errors through December 31, 2003 discussed
    above, the cumulative impact of the restatement of these errors
    on our consolidated financial statements was to decrease
    retained earnings by $351 million as of June 30, 2004.

80

Table of Contents   

Additionally, two REMIC transactions were specifically
    identified and questioned by OFHEO regarding our intent for
    entering into the transactions and the timing of income
    recognition. Our review concluded that the historical treatment
    of accounting for these transfers was appropriate and
    consistently applied.

Financial
    Guaranties and Master Servicing   

We identified the accounting errors described below related to
    our financial guaranties and master servicing that resulted in a
    cumulative pre-tax increase in retained earnings of
    $147 million as of December 31, 2003.

Recognition,
    Valuation and Amortization of Guaranties and Master
    Servicing  

We identified seven errors associated with the recognition,
    valuation and amortization of our guaranty and master servicing
    contracts. The most significant errors were that we incorrectly
    amortized guaranty fee buy-downs and risk-based pricing
    adjustments; we incorrectly valued our guaranty assets and
    guaranty obligations; we incorrectly accounted for buy-ups; we
    did not record credit enhancements associated with our
    guaranties as separate assets; and we incorrectly recorded
    adjustments to guaranty assets and guaranty obligations based on
    the amount of Fannie Mae MBS held in the consolidated balance
    sheets. In conjunction with the review of these issues, we
    identified the following additional errors: we did not record
    guaranty assets and guaranty obligations associated with our
    guaranties to MBS trusts in which we were the transferor of the
    trust s underlying loans and we did not recognize master
    servicing assets and related deferred profit, where applicable.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a cumulative pre-tax increase in retained earnings
    of $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2003. These
    restatement adjustments also resulted in an increase of
    $144 million in total assets and a decrease in total
    liabilities of $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2003.
    Each of the errors that resulted in these adjustments is
    described below.

For guaranties entered into before January 1, 2003, the
    effective date of FIN No. 45,  Guarantor s
    Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
    Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others (an interpretation
    of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and rescission of
    FASB Interpretation No. 
    34)  ( FIN 45 ), we made errors in
    applying amortization to up-front cash receipts associated with
    our guaranties, known as buy-downs and risk-based pricing
    adjustments, pursuant to SFAS No. 91,  Accounting
    for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or
    Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases (an amendment
    of FASB Statements No. 13, 60, and 65 and rescission of
    FASB Statement No. 17)  ( SFAS 91 ). The
    errors in amortization of these items are described in the
     Amortization of Cost Basis Adjustments  section
    below. The impact of correcting these errors resulted in changes
    in the periodic recognition of  Guaranty fee income 
    in the consolidated statements of income. For guaranties entered
    into or modified after the adoption of FIN 45, buy-downs
    and risk-based pricing adjustments should have been recorded as
    an additional component of  Guaranty obligations  and
    amortized in proportion to the reduction to  Guaranty
    assets.  The impact of correcting this error resulted in
    changes in the carrying amount of  Other liabilities 
    and  Guaranty obligations  in the consolidated balance
    sheets and changes in the periodic recognition of  Guaranty
    fee income  in the consolidated statements of income.

We had valuation errors associated with our guaranty assets and
    guaranty obligations. We incorrectly included up-front cash
    payments associated with our guaranties, known as buy-ups, in
    the basis of our guaranty assets while also recording these
    buy-ups as a separate asset included in  Other assets 
    in the consolidated balance sheets. We recorded guaranty
    obligations equal to the recorded guaranty assets, including any
    buy-ups, when we should have independently measured guaranty
    obligations at fair value based on estimates of expected credit
    losses and recorded deferred profit associated with these
    arrangements. The impact of correcting these errors resulted in
    decreases in  Other assets  and  Guaranty
    obligations  in the consolidated balance sheets.

We did not correctly account for buy-ups. Historically, we
    accounted for buy-ups at amortized cost under the retrospective
    effective interest method pursuant to SFAS 91. However,
    since the recognition of income on a
     buy-up  is
    subject to the risk that we may not substantially recover our
    investment due to prepayments, we should have subsequently
    measured the fair value of the buy-ups as if they were debt
    securities pursuant to SFAS 140 and recorded imputed
    interest as a component of  Guaranty fee income  in
    the consolidated statements of income under the prospective
    interest method pursuant to EITF 99-20. The impact of
    correcting

81

Table of Contents   

this error resulted in recording buy-ups at fair value as a
    component of  Other assets  in the consolidated
    balance sheets with changes in the fair value recorded in AOCI
    in the consolidated balance sheets.

In some transactions, we receive the benefit of lender-provided
    credit enhancements, such as lender recourse, in lieu of
    receiving a higher guaranty fee. Previously, we did not record
    these credit enhancements as assets in the consolidated balance
    sheets. The impact of correcting this error resulted in the
    recognition of credit enhancements as a component of  Other
    assets,  an offsetting increase to  Guaranty
    obligations  and subsequent amortization of the credit
    enhancement as a component of  Other expenses  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

Historically, when we acquired a Fannie Mae MBS, we reduced the
    recorded guaranty asset and guaranty obligation by an amount
    equal to the pro rata portion of Fannie Mae MBS held in the
    consolidated balance sheets relative to the total amount of
    gross outstanding Fannie Mae MBS. In addition, we reclassified a
    pro rata portion of recorded guaranty fee income to interest
    income in an amount equal to the ratio of the Fannie Mae MBS
    held in the consolidated balance sheets relative to the total
    amount of gross outstanding Fannie Mae MBS. Because each Fannie
    Mae MBS trust to which we have a guaranty obligation, and from
    which we have the right to receive guaranty fees, is separate
    from us, we should not have reduced the recorded guaranty asset
    and guaranty obligation or reclassified guaranty fee income with
    respect to Fannie Mae MBS held in the consolidated balance
    sheets unless we had consolidated the related MBS trust.
    Correcting this error increased  Guaranty assets  and
     Guaranty obligations  in the consolidated balance
    sheets, and resulted in a decrease in  Net interest
    income  of $948 million and a corresponding increase
    in  Guaranty fee income  in the consolidated
    statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2003.

We did not record certain retained interests as guaranty assets
    and certain recourse obligations as guaranty obligations in
    connection with the transfer of loans to MBS trusts for which we
    were the transferor pursuant to SFAS 125 and SFAS 140.
    To correct this error, we examined all of our guaranty
    arrangements in these transactions and recorded guaranty assets
    and guaranty obligations as applicable. The impact of correcting
    this error resulted in an increase in  Guaranty
    assets  and  Guaranty obligations  in the
    consolidated balance sheets with any remaining difference being
    recorded as a component of  Investment losses, net  in
    the consolidated statements of income.

We assume an obligation to perform certain limited master
    servicing activities in connection with securitizations and are
    compensated for assuming this obligation. We did not previously
    recognize master servicing assets and related deferred profit
    associated with our role as master servicer pursuant to
    SFAS 125 and SFAS 140. To correct this error, we
    reviewed our trust agreements to determine when we had master
    servicing responsibilities. The impact of correcting this error
    generally resulted in the recognition of master servicing assets
    as a component of  Other assets  and the recognition
    of a corresponding amount of deferred profit as a component of
     Other liabilities,  with subsequent amortization and
    impairment recorded to  Fee and other income  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

Impairment
    of Guaranty Assets and Buy-ups  

We identified the following errors associated with the
    impairment of guaranties: we did not assess guaranty assets or
    buy-ups for impairment in accordance with EITF 99-20 and
    SFAS 115, as appropriate.

The restatement adjustments related to impairments resulted in a
    cumulative pre-tax decrease in retained earnings of
    $2.3 billion and a decrease of $1.8 billion in total
    assets as of December 31, 2003. Each of the errors that
    resulted in these adjustments is described below.

We did not assess guaranty assets for impairment. As a result,
    guaranty assets were overstated in previously issued financial
    statements. The impact of correcting this error resulted in a
    reduction to  Guaranty assets  with a proportional
    reduction to  Guaranty obligations  in the
    consolidated balance sheets. The impairment of the guaranty
    asset was fully offset by amortization of the guaranty
    obligation. While the impairment of the guaranty asset is
    categorized in this section, the proportionate reduction of the
    guaranty obligation is categorized in the  Recognition,
    Valuation and Amortization of Guaranties and Master
    Servicing  section above.

82

Table of Contents   

We did not assess buy-ups for impairment. As a result,
     Other assets  and  Guaranty fee income 
    were overstated in previously issued financial statements. The
    impact of correcting this error resulted in a decrease in
     Other assets  in the consolidated balance sheets and
    a decrease in  Guaranty fee income  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

For the six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a
    pre-tax decrease in net income of $143 million related to
    the accounting errors described above. In combination with the
    effect of these errors through December 31, 2003 discussed
    above, the cumulative impact of the restatement of these errors
    on our consolidated financial statements was to increase
    retained earnings by $4 million as of June 30, 2004.
    The decrease in net income in the six-month period ended
    June 30, 2004 was primarily the result of the amortization
    of  Guaranty obligations. 

Amortization
    of Cost Basis Adjustments   

We identified multiple errors in amortization of mortgage loan
    and securities premiums, discounts and other cost basis
    adjustments. The most significant errors were that we applied
    incorrect prepayment speeds to cost basis adjustments; we
    aggregated dissimilar assets in computing amortization; and we
    incorrectly recorded cumulative amortization adjustments.
    Additionally, the correction of cost basis adjustments in other
    error categories, primarily settled mortgage loan and security
    commitments, resulted in the recognition of additional
    amortization. The errors that led to these corrected cost basis
    adjustments are described in the  Commitments, 
     Investments in Securities  and  MBS Trust
    Consolidation and Sale Accounting  sections above.

The restatement adjustments relating to these amortization
    errors resulted in a cumulative pre-tax decrease in retained
    earnings of $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2003. Each
    of the errors that resulted in these adjustments is described
    below.

SFAS 91 requires the recognition of cost basis adjustments
    as an adjustment to interest income over the life of a loan or
    security by using the interest method and applying a constant
    effective yield ( level yield ). In calculating a
    level yield, we calculate amortization factors, based on
    prepayment and interest rate assumptions. Our method for
    estimating prepayment rates applied incorrect assumptions to
    certain assets.

In addition, we incorrectly aggregated dissimilar assets in
    computing amortization. Our amortization calculation aggregated
    loans with a wide range of coupon rates, which in some cases led
    to amortization results that did not produce an appropriate
    level yield over the life of the loans. To correct this error,
    we recalculated amortization of loans and securities factoring
    in prepayment and interest rate assumptions that were applied to
    the appropriate asset types. The impact of correcting these
    errors resulted in changes in the periodic recognition of
    interest income in the consolidated statements of income.

The manner in which we calculated and recorded the cumulative
     catch-up  adjustment was inconsistent with the
    provisions of SFAS 91. The impact of correcting this error
    resulted in changes in the periodic recognition of interest
    income in the consolidated statements of income.

For the six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a
    pre-tax decrease in net income of $70 million related to
    the accounting errors described above. In combination with the
    effect of these errors through December 31, 2003 discussed
    above, the cumulative impact of the restatement of these errors
    on our consolidated financial statements was to decrease
    retained earnings by $1.1 billion as of June 30, 2004.

Other
    Adjustments   

In addition to the previously noted errors, we identified and
    recorded other restatement adjustments related to accounting,
    presentation, classification and other errors that did not fall
    within the six categories described above.

The accumulation of the other restatement adjustments listed
    below resulted in a cumulative pre-tax decrease in retained
    earnings of $973 million as of December 31, 2003. The
    other restatement adjustments resulted in an increase of
    $5.0 billion in total assets and an increase of
    $5.2 billion in total liabilities as of December 31,
    2003.

83

Table of Contents   

The following categories summarize the most significant other
    adjustments recorded as part of the restatement:

Accounting for partnership investments.   We
    incorrectly accounted for a portion of our LIHTC and other
    partnership investments using the effective yield method instead
    of using the equity method of accounting. The correction of this
    error resulted in changes in the carrying amount of these
    investments in the consolidated balance sheets, the recognition
    of our obligations to fund the partnerships, and changes in the
    income recognition on these investments in the consolidated
    statements of income. Additionally, we failed to consolidate a
    portion of the LIHTC and other partnership investments in which
    we were deemed to be the primary beneficiary pursuant to
    FIN 46R, which resulted in the reversal of any previously
    recorded investment and recognition of the underlying assets and
    liabilities of the entity in the consolidated balance sheets
    and, at the same time, we incorrectly consolidated some
    partnership investments which had the reverse effect. We also
    made errors in the capitalization of interest expense,
    measurement of impairment and the recognition of our obligations
    to fund our partnership investments. The correction of these
    errors resulted in changes in the amount of interest expense and
    impairment recognized in the consolidated statements of income.
    Lastly, we made errors in the computation of net operating
    losses and tax credits allocated to us from these partnerships.
    The correction of these errors resulted in changes in
     Deferred tax assets  in the consolidated balance
    sheets and changes in the  Provision for federal income
    taxes  in the consolidated statements of income. These
    restatement adjustments resulted in a cumulative pre-tax
    decrease in retained earnings of $603 million, an increase
    of $791 million in total assets and an increase of
    $878 million in total liabilities as of December 31,
    2003. In addition to the tax provision recorded for the
    partnership investments restatement adjustments, we also
    recorded a decrease in federal income tax expense of
    $138 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 due
    to changes in the recognition and classification of related tax
    credits and net operating losses.

Classification of loans held for sale.   We
    incorrectly classified loans held for securitization at a future
    date as HFI loans rather than HFS loans pursuant to
    SFAS No. 65,  Accounting for Certain Mortgage
    Banking Activities . Accordingly, we did not record LOCOM
    adjustments on these loans. To correct this error, we recorded
    an adjustment to reclassify such loans from HFI to HFS and
    recorded an associated LOCOM adjustment. These restatement
    adjustments resulted in a cumulative pre-tax decrease in
    retained earnings of $386 million as of December 31,
    2003.

Provision for credit losses.   We incorrectly
    recorded the  Provision for credit losses  due to
    errors associated with the  Allowance for loan
    losses,   Reserve for guaranty losses,  as well
    as REO and troubled debt restructurings ( TDRs  ).

We made errors in developing our estimates of the
     Allowance for loan losses  and the  Reserve for
    guaranty losses,  which resulted in an understatement of
    the provision for credit losses. These errors were primarily
    related to the use of inappropriate data in the calculation of
    the allowance and reserve, such as incorrect loan populations,
    inaccurate default statistics and inaccurate loss severity in
    the event that loans default. We also made judgmental
    adjustments to the calculated allowance without adequate support
    and incorrectly included an estimate of credit enhancement
    collections in the estimate of the  Allowance for loan
    losses.  Estimates of recoveries from credit enhancements
    that were not entered into contemporaneously or in contemplation
    of a guaranty or loan purchase should not have been included in
    the overall estimate of the allowance or the reserve. As a
    result of misclassifying certain loans as HFI, we incorrectly
    recorded an  Allowance for loan losses  on these
    loans. Finally, we did not properly allocate the reserve between
    the  Allowance for loan losses  and the  Reserve
    for guaranty losses.  To correct these errors, we
    recalculated the allowance and reserve with updated information
    and supportable data, reviewed and documented any judgmental
    adjustments and appropriately applied estimates of recoveries
    from credit enhancements to the loan population.

We made errors in calculating loan charge-off amounts. These
    errors were related to REO and foreclosed property expense,
    including making inappropriate determinations of the initial
    cost basis of REO assets at foreclosure, as well as not
    expensing costs related to foreclosure activities in the proper
    periods. To correct these errors, we reviewed REO and foreclosed
    property expense to determine and record the appropriate cost
    basis and timing of charge-offs and expense recognition. We also

84

Table of Contents   

incorrectly recognized insurance proceeds in excess of estimated
    charge-off at foreclosure and fair value gains above the
    recorded investment of REO properties as recoveries to the
    allowance and the reserve. To correct this error, we
    recalculated the allowance and reserve.

We historically did not recognize modifications that granted
    concessions to borrowers as TDRs pursuant to
    SFAS No. 114,  Accounting by Creditors for
    Impairment of a Loan (an amendment of FASB Statement No. 5
    and 15)  ( SFAS 114 ). To correct this
    error, we recognized these modifications as TDRs and recorded an
    adjustment to the  Allowance for loan losses  and the
     Provision for credit losses  in the consolidated
    balance sheets and consolidated statements of income,
    respectively.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a pre-tax increase in the provision for credit
    losses of $273 million for the year ended December 31,
    2003; however, the cumulative impact on retained earnings was a
    decrease of $87 million as of December 31, 2003.

Early funding.   We offer early funding options
    to lenders that allow them to receive cash payments for mortgage
    loans that will be securitized into Fannie Mae MBS at a future
    date. A corresponding forward commitment to sell the security
    that will be backed by the mortgage loans is required to be
    delivered with the mortgage loans and is executed on the
    settlement date of the commitment. We incorrectly recorded these
    transactions as HFS loans prior to the actual creation of the
    Fannie Mae MBS when we were the intended purchaser of the MBS.
    The impact of correcting this error was to remove any previous
    HFS loans from these transactions and record the transactions as
     Advances to lenders,  carried at amortized cost, in
    the consolidated balance sheets, resulting in a decrease of
    $4.7 billion in  Mortgage loans  with a
    corresponding increase in  Advances to lenders  as of
    December 31, 2003.

Collateral associated with derivatives
    contracts.   We did not record cash collateral we
    received associated with some derivatives contracts. The impact
    of correcting this error was to record additional  Cash and
    cash equivalents  of $2.3 billion and  Restricted
    cash  of $1.1 billion, and a corresponding liability
    to our derivative counterparties in  Other
    liabilities  of $3.4 billion, as of December 31,
    2003.

The following items, while restatement errors, were not
    individually significant to the consolidated financial
    statements for the restatement period:

Accounting for reverse mortgages.   We made
    errors in accounting for reverse mortgages. When computing
    interest income on reverse mortgages we did not use the expected
    life of the borrower and house price expectations in the
    interest income calculations and did not apply the retrospective
    level yield method. To correct this error, we recalculated
    interest income for these mortgages and recorded the change in
     Interest income  in the consolidated statements of
    income. We also incorrectly recorded loan loss reserves on these
    mortgages. To correct this error, we adjusted the
     Allowance for loan losses  and the  Provision
    for credit losses  in the consolidated balance sheets and
    consolidated statements of income, respectively.

Accrued interest on delinquent loans.   We
    incorrectly included a recovery rate, which was based on
    historic trends of loans that subsequently changed to current
    payment status, in calculating accrued interest on delinquent
    loans. The effect of this error was to record interest income on
    loans that should have been on nonaccrual status. The correction
    of this error resulted in the reversal of interest income
    recorded in the periods when loans should have been on
    nonaccrual status.

Amortization of prepaid mortgage insurance.   We
    amortized prepaid mortgage insurance over a period that is not
    representative of the period in which we received the benefits
    of the mortgage insurance. To correct this error, we
    recalculated amortization of this mortgage insurance and
    recorded the difference in  Other expenses  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

Computation of interest income.   We incorrectly
    calculated interest income on certain investments. The
    calculations utilized a convention that was based on the average
    number of days of interest in a month regardless of the actual
    number of days in the month. We corrected the calculation of
    interest using the actual number of days in the month and
    adjusted the timing of interest income recognition.

85

Table of Contents   

Mortgage insurance contract.   We entered into a
    mortgage insurance contract that did not transfer sufficient
    underlying risk of economic loss to the insurer and therefore
    did not qualify as mortgage insurance for accounting purposes.
    We incorrectly amortized the premiums paid as an expense. To
    correct this error, we recorded premiums paid on the policy as a
    deposit, reducing such deposit as recoveries from the policy
    were received.

Stock-based compensation.   We made errors in
    the computation and classification of stock-based compensation,
    including the misclassification of some awards as
    non-compensatory when they were compensatory. The impact of
    correcting these errors resulted in the recognition of
    additional  Salaries and employee benefits expense  in
    the consolidated statements of income, a decrease in  Other
    liabilities  and an increase in  Additional paid-in
    capital  in the consolidated balance sheets. None of these
    errors related to awards that were not properly authorized and
    priced.

In addition to the specified errors listed and described above,
    we recognized other restatement adjustments related to our
    revised accounting policies and practices. These adjustments,
    both individually and in the aggregate, did not have a
    significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.

As a result of our restatement adjustments, our effective tax
    rate decreased from the previously reported 26% to 24% for the
    year ended December 31, 2003 and from the previously
    reported 24% to 18% for the year ended December 31, 2002.
    These decreases resulted from errors in our tax provision
    primarily relating to the recognition of higher levels of tax
    credits from our investment in affordable housing projects and
    changes to deferred tax balances. As a result, the change in the
    provision for federal taxes as a percentage of the change in
    pre-tax income was higher than the statutory federal rate or our
    effective tax rate. See  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 11, Income Taxes  for our
    restated tax rate reconciliation. In addition, the tax effects
    were applied to each of the categories identified above to
    display each error category net of tax and with the earnings per
    share impact.

For the six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a
    pre-tax decrease in net income of $320 million related to
    the accounting errors described above. In combination with the
    effect of these errors through December 31, 2003 discussed
    above, the cumulative impact of the restatement of these errors
    on our consolidated financial statements was to decrease
    retained earnings by $1.3 billion as of June 30, 2004.
    The decrease in net income in the six-month period ended
    June 30, 2004 was primarily the result of accounting for
    partnership investments, classification of loans held for sale
    and the provision for credit losses.

In addition to the consolidated financial statement errors
    discussed above, we incorrectly applied the treasury stock
    method in computing the weighted average shares pursuant to
    SFAS No. 128,  Earnings per Share.  This resulted
    in a different number of weighted average dilutive shares
    outstanding being utilized in the earnings per share
    calculation. While common stock outstanding has not been
    restated, diluted EPS has been recalculated using the revised
    weighted average diluted shares.

We also identified errors in the presentation of business
    segments that were not in conformity with the requirements of
    SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an
    Enterprise and Related Information . For further information
    on this error, see  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 15, Segment Reporting. 

We made errors in the fair value disclosure of financial
    instruments pursuant to SFAS No. 107,  Disclosures
    about Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
    ( SFAS 107 ), by incorrectly calculating the fair
    value of our derivatives, commitments and AFS securities, as
    described above. In addition, we incorrectly calculated the fair
    value of our guaranty assets and guaranty obligations, which
    affected the fair value of our whole loans. We also incorrectly
    calculated the fair value of our HTM securities and debt. For
    our guaranty obligations, we did not appropriately consider an
    estimate of the return on capital required by a third party to
    assume our liability. Correcting this error resulted in an
    increase in our guaranty obligations of approximately $1.2
    billion (net of tax) and a decrease in the fair value of our
    whole loans of approximately $200 million (net of tax).
    This increase in the fair value of our guaranty obligations,
    coupled with other fair value changes made in re-estimating the
    guaranty components, resulted in a decrease in the fair value of
    our net guaranty assets of approximately $1.7 billion (net
    of tax) as of December 31, 2003. For our HTM securities, we
    did not

86

Table of Contents   

appropriately consider security characteristics and aggregation
    in developing our estimate of fair value. Correcting these
    errors resulted in a reduction in the fair value of these assets
    of approximately $800 million (net of tax) as of
    December 31, 2003, which was primarily due to changes in
    the estimated fair values of mortgage revenue bonds and REMICs.
    For our debt, we did not appropriately exclude certain
    commission costs associated with the issuance of new debt
    securities in creating the yield curve we used for estimating
    fair value. Correcting this error resulted in an increase in the
    estimated fair value of our debt of approximately
    $300 million (net of tax) as of December 31, 2003. For
    our
     out-of-the-money 
    derivative options, we did not fully incorporate available
    market information that differentiates at-the-money volatilities
    from out-of-the-money volatilities in estimating fair value.
    Correcting the error resulted in a decrease in the estimated
    fair value of our derivatives of approximately $200 million
    (net of tax) as of December 31, 2003. To correct these
    errors, we recalculated the fair value of these items using new
    assumptions, observable data and appropriate levels of
    specificity. The impact of recalculating the estimated fair
    value of these items is reflected in  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements   Note 19, Fair Value of
    Financial Instruments. 

Financial
    Statement Impact  

The following tables display the net impact of restatement
    adjustments in the previously issued consolidated balance
    sheets, consolidated statements of income, consolidated
    statements of cash flows and regulatory capital for 2003 and
    2002. In addition, we have included tables displaying the net
    impact of restatement adjustments on stockholders  equity
    and in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31,
    2001. The following consolidated financial statements are
    presented in a condensed format.

Balance
    Sheet Impact   

The following table displays the cumulative impact of the
    restatement on the condensed consolidated balance sheet through
    and as of December 31, 2003.

Table
    2:  Balance Sheet Impact of Restatement as of
    December 31, 2003  

87

Table of Contents   

(a)   

Certain previously reported
    balances have been reclassified to conform to the current
    condensed consolidated balance sheet presentation, as described
    in  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies. 

(b)   

Reflects the impact of MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; the derecognition of HTM
    securities at amortized cost and recognition of AFS and trading
    securities at fair value; the reversal of the SFAS 149
    transition adjustment and recognition of revised securities
    commitment basis adjustments; the recognition of revised
    amortization on securities cost basis adjustments; and the
    derecognition of securities related to failed dollar roll
    repurchase transactions that did not meet the criteria for
    secured borrowing accounting.

(c)   

Reflects the impact of MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; the reclassification of
     Mortgage loans  to  Advances to lenders; 
    the recognition of revised mortgage loan commitment basis
    adjustments; the recognition of the LOCOM adjustment for loans
    classified as HFS; and the recognition of revised amortization
    on mortgage loan cost basis adjustments.

(d)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals from accrued interest and
    recognition of derivative fair value adjustments.

(e)   

Reflects the impairment of guaranty
    assets; the reversal of
     buy-up 
    amounts included in the basis of the guaranty assets; and the
    derecognition of guaranty arrangements upon consolidation.

(f)   

Reflects the impact of restatement
    adjustments on deferred taxes and the correction of tax
    credit-related errors associated with partnership investments.

(g)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals to  Derivative assets at fair
    value;  the reclassification of  Advances to
    lenders  from  Mortgage loans;  the impairment of
    buy-ups; the recognition of  Restricted cash  and
     Cash and cash equivalents  related to collateral
    received from derivatives counterparties; and the impact of cost
    basis transfers between error categories.

(h)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded unrealized gains and losses on the hedged items
    associated with fair value hedges; the recognition of revised
    amortization of debt basis adjustments; and the recognition of
    short-term and long-term debt upon consolidation of MBS trusts
    in which we own less than 100% of the related securities.

(i)   

Reflects the valuation adjustment
    related to the guaranty obligations; the reclassification of
    buy-downs and risk-based pricing adjustments from  Other
    liabilities;  and the derecognition of guaranty
    arrangements upon consolidation.

(j)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals to  Derivative liabilities at
    fair value;  the reversal of short-term debt associated
    with failed dollar roll repurchase transactions; the
    reclassification of buy-downs and risk-based pricing adjustments
    to  Guaranty obligations;  and the recognition of
    liabilities to derivative counterparties associated with
    restricted cash.

(k)   

Reflects the recognition of
    derivative fair value adjustments to the consolidated statements
    of income and other income or expense related adjustments.

(l)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded derivatives fair value adjustments and the recognition
    of unrealized gains (losses) on AFS securities and
     buy-ups. 

88

Table of Contents   

The following table displays the cumulative impact of the
    restatement on the condensed consolidated balance sheet through
    and as of December 31, 2002.

Table
    3:  Balance Sheet Impact of Restatement as of
    December 31, 2002  

(a)   

Certain previously reported
    balances have been reclassified to conform to the current
    condensed consolidated balance sheet presentation, as described
    in  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies. 

(b)   

Reflects the impact of MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; the derecognition of HTM
    securities at amortized cost and recognition of AFS and trading
    securities at fair value, including commitments accounted for
    under EITF 96-11; the recognition of revised securities
    commitment basis adjustments; the recognition of revised
    amortization on securities cost basis adjustments; and the
    derecognition of securities related to failed dollar roll
    repurchase transactions that did not meet the criteria for
    secured borrowing accounting.

(c)   

Reflects the impact of MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; the reclassification of
     Mortgage loans  to  Advances to lenders; 
    the recognition of mortgage loan commitment basis adjustments;
    the recognition of the LOCOM adjustment for loans classified as
    HFS; and the recognition of revised amortization on mortgage
    loan cost basis adjustments.

(d)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals from accrued interest and
    recognition of derivative fair value adjustments.

(e)   

Reflects the impact of restatement
    adjustments on deferred taxes and the correction of tax
    credit-related errors associated with partnership investments.

(f)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals to  Derivative assets at fair
    value;  the reclassification of  Advances to
    lenders  from  Mortgage loans;  the impairment of
    buy-ups; the recognition of  Restricted cash  and
     Cash and cash equivalents  related to collateral
    received from derivatives counterparties; and the impact of cost
    basis transfers between error categories.

(g)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded unrealized gains and losses on hedged items associated
    with fair value hedges; the recognition of revised amortization
    of debt basis adjustments; and the recognition of short-term and
    long-term debt upon consolidation of MBS trusts in which we own
    less than 100% of the related securities.

(h)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals to  Derivative liabilities at
    fair value;  the reversal of short-term debt associated
    with failed dollar roll repurchase transactions; the correction
    of amortization of buy-downs and risk-based pricing adjustments;
    and the recognition of liabilities to derivative counterparties
    associated with restricted cash.

89

Table of Contents   

(i)   

Reflects the recognition of
    derivative fair value adjustments to the consolidated statements
    of income and other income or expense related adjustments.

(j)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded derivatives fair value adjustments and the recognition
    of unrealized gains (losses) on AFS securities and
     buy-ups. 

The following table displays the cumulative impact of the
    restatement on the condensed consolidated balance sheet for all
    periods through and as of December 31, 2001.

Table
    4:  Balance Sheet Impact of Restatement as of
    December 31, 2001  

(a)   

Certain previously reported
    balances have been reclassified to conform to the current
    condensed consolidated balance sheet presentation, as described
    in  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies. 

(b)   

Reflects the impact of MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; the derecognition of HTM
    securities at amortized cost and recognition of AFS and trading
    securities at fair value, including commitments accounted for
    under EITF 96-11; the recognition of revised securities
    commitment basis adjustments; the recognition of revised
    amortization on securities cost basis adjustments; and the
    derecognition of securities related to failed dollar roll
    repurchase transactions that did not meet the criteria for
    secured borrowing accounting.

(c)   

Reflects impact of MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; the reclassification of
     Mortgage loans  to  Advances to lenders; 
    the recognition of mortgage loan commitment basis adjustments;
    the recognition of the LOCOM adjustment for loans classified as
    HFS; and the recognition of revised amortization on mortgage
    loan cost basis adjustments.

(d)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals from accrued interest and
    recognition of derivative fair value adjustments.

(e)   

Reflects the impact of restatement
    adjustments on deferred taxes and the correction of tax
    credit-related errors associated with partnership investments.

(f)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals to  Derivative assets at fair
    value;  the reclassification of  Advances to
    lenders  from  Mortgage loans;  the impairment of
    buy-ups; the recognition of  Restricted cash  and
     Cash and cash equivalents  related to collateral
    received from derivatives counterparties; and the impact of cost
    basis transfers between error categories.

90

Table of Contents   

(g)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded unrealized gains and losses on hedged items associated
    with fair value hedges; the recognition of revised amortization
    of debt basis adjustments; and the recognition of short-term and
    long-term debt upon consolidation of MBS trusts in which we own
    less than 100% of the related securities.

(h)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals to  Derivative liabilities at
    fair value;  the reversal of short-term debt associated
    with failed dollar roll repurchase transactions; the correction
    of amortization of buy-downs and risk-based pricing adjustments;
    and the recognition of liabilities to derivative counterparties
    associated with restricted cash.

(i)   

Reflects the recognition of
    derivative fair value adjustments to the consolidated statements
    of income and other income or expense related adjustments.

(j)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded derivatives fair value adjustments and the recognition
    of unrealized gains (losses) on AFS securities and
     buy-ups. 

The following table displays the cumulative impact of the
    restatement on consolidated stockholders  equity in the
    condensed consolidated balance sheet through and as of
    December 31, 2001.

Table
    5:  Stockholders  Equity Impact of Restatement as
    of December 31, 2001  

(a)   

Reflects the recognition of
    derivative fair value gains (losses) and revised amortization of
    debt cost basis adjustments.

(b)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded derivative fair value losses.

(c)   

Reflects the recognition of net
    unrealized gains on AFS securities.

91

Table of Contents   

Statement
    of Income Impact   

The following table displays the impact of the restatement on
    the December 31, 2003 condensed consolidated statement of
    income.

Table
    6:  Income Statement Impact of Restatement for the
    Year Ended December 31, 2003  

(a)   

Certain amounts have been
    reclassified to conform to the current condensed income
    statements presentation, as described in  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2, Summary of
    Significant Accounting Policies. 

92

Table of Contents   

The following table displays the impact of the restatement on
    the December 31, 2002 condensed consolidated statement of
    income.

Table
    7:  Income Statement Impact of Restatement for the
    Year Ended December 31, 2002  

(a)   

Certain amounts have been
    reclassified to conform to the current condensed income
    statements presentation, as described below in  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2, Summary of
    Significant Accounting Policies. 

See the  Summary of Restatement Adjustments  section
    above for further details on the impact of the restatement
    errors on the consolidated statements of income.

93

Table of Contents   

Statement
    of Cash Flows Impact   

The following table displays the impact of the restatement on
    the December 31, 2003 and 2002 consolidated statements of
    cash flows.

Table
    8:  Impact of Restatement on Statements of Cash Flows
    for the Years Ended December 31, 2003 and 2002  

The restatement adjustments resulted in a net increase in
     Cash and cash equivalents  of $2.0 billion and
    $489 million during the years ended December 31, 2003
    and 2002, respectively. The restatement adjustment to increase
    cash and cash equivalents was the result of recognizing cash
    collateral associated with certain derivatives contracts, which
    was partially offset by classifying cash due to certain MBS
    trusts as restricted cash.

These restatement adjustments and errors in the prior cash flow
    presentation resulted in a net increase of $38.7 billion in
    cash flows from operating activities, a net decrease of
    $36.9 billion in cash flows from investing activities and a
    net increase of $206 million in cash flows from financing
    activities for the year ended December 31, 2003. The
    primary causes of these changes were misclassifications of cash
    flows related to derivatives, trading securities and HFS loans,
    and an overstatement of cash flows from the sale of mortgage
    loans. In connection with the misapplication of hedge
    accounting, we incorrectly classified derivatives cash flows as
    investing and financing activities instead of as operating
    activities. We determined that we misapplied
    SFAS No. 102,  Statement of Cash
    Flows Exemption of Certain Enterprises and Classification
    of Cash Flows from Certain Securities Acquired for Resale (an
    amendment to FASB Statement No. 95) , which requires
    cash flows from trading securities and HFS loans to be
    classified as operating cash flows. As previously discussed, we
    incorrectly recorded sales of mortgage loans to MBS trusts that
    did not meet the definition of a QSPE under SFAS 140, which
    resulted in a net overall increase in cash flows from investing
    activities.

94

Table of Contents   

Regulatory
    Capital Impact   

The following table displays the impact of the restatement on
    regulatory capital as of December 31, 2003 and 2002.

Table
    9:  Regulatory Capital Impact of Restatement as of
    December 31, 2003 and 2002  

The restatement adjustments resulted in a net decrease in
    regulatory core capital of $7.5 billion and
    $7.6 billion as of December 31, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively. Additionally, the restatement adjustments of
    $7.7 billion and $8.1 billion as of December 31,
    2003 and 2002, respectively, caused the previously reported
    surplus of required minimum capital to become a deficit.

Although we had a deficit of required minimum capital and the
    restatement adjustments decreased required critical capital by
    $7.6 billion and $7.9 billion as of December 31,
    2003 and 2002, we maintained a surplus of required critical
    capital.

These changes in our regulatory capital measures were primarily
    the result of errors relating to our accounting for derivative
    instruments. As AOCI is not included in the calculation of
    required minimum or critical capital, the reclassification of
    net derivative losses from AOCI into net income had a
    significant negative impact on required minimum and critical
    capital, despite an increase in stockholders  equity.

CRITICAL
    ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP
    requires management to make a number of judgments, estimates and
    assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets,
    liabilities, income and expenses in the consolidated financial
    statements.

We have identified four accounting policies that require
    significant estimates and judgments and have a significant
    impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
    These policies are considered critical because the estimated
    amounts are likely to fluctuate from period to period due to the
    significant judgments and assumptions about highly complex and
    inherently uncertain matters and because the use of different
    assumptions related to these estimates could have a material
    impact on our financial condition or results of operations.
    These four accounting policies are: (i) the fair value of
    financial instruments; (ii) the amortization of cost basis
    adjustments using the effective interest method; (iii) the
    allowance for loan losses and reserve for

95

Table of Contents   

guaranty losses; and (iv) the assessment of variable
    interest entities. We evaluate our critical accounting estimates
    and judgments required by our policies on an ongoing basis and
    update as necessary based on changing conditions. We describe
    our most significant accounting policies in  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2, Summary of
    Significant Accounting Policies. 

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  

Valuation of financial instruments is a critical component of
    our consolidated financial statements because a significant
    portion of our assets and liabilities are recorded at estimated
    fair value. Our estimate of fair value of these assets and
    liabilities may have a major impact on our consolidated net
    income or stockholders  equity. The principal assets and
    liabilities that we record at fair value, and the manner in
    which changes in that fair value affect our net income or
    stockholders  equity, are:

Derivatives initiated for risk management purposes and mortgage
    commitments, both of which are recorded in the consolidated
    balance sheets at fair value with changes in fair value
    recognized through earnings;

Guaranty assets and guaranty obligations, which are recorded in
    the consolidated balance sheets at fair value at the inception
    of the guaranty and amortized through earnings;

Investments in securities that are classified as either trading
    or AFS, which are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at
    fair value with the change in fair value of trading securities
    recognized through earnings and the change in fair value of AFS
    securities recorded in AOCI;

Loans included in our portfolio that are classified as held for
    sale, which are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at
    the lower of cost or market with changes in the fair value (not
    to exceed the cost basis of these loans) recorded through
    earnings; and

Retained interests in securitizations and guaranty fee buy-ups
    on Fannie Mae MBS, which are recorded in the consolidated
    balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains and losses
    recorded in AOCI.

Fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial
    instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between
    willing unrelated parties, other than in a forced or liquidation
    sale. We determine the fair value of these assets and
    obligations based on our judgment of appropriate valuation
    methods and assumptions. The degree of management judgment
    involved in determining the fair value of a financial instrument
    depends on the availability and reliability of relevant market
    data, such as quoted market prices. Financial instruments that
    are actively traded and have quoted market prices or readily
    available market data require minimal judgment in determining
    fair value. When observable market prices and data are not
    readily available or do not exist, management must make fair
    value estimates based on assumptions and judgments. In these
    cases, even minor changes in management s assumptions could
    result in significant changes in our estimate of fair value.
    These changes could increase or decrease the value of our
    assets, liabilities, stockholders  equity and net income.
    We estimate fair values using the following practices:

We use actual, observable market prices or market prices
    obtained from multiple third parties. Pricing information
    obtained from third parties is internally validated for
    reasonableness prior to use in the consolidated financial
    statements.

Where observable market prices are not readily available, we
    estimate the fair value using market data and model-based
    interpolations using standard models that are widely accepted
    within the industry. Market data includes prices of instruments
    with similar maturities and characteristics, duration, interest
    rate yield curves, measures of volatility and prepayment rates.

If market data used to estimate fair value as described above is
    not available, we estimate fair value using internally developed
    models that employ techniques such as a discounted cash flow
    approach. These models include market-based assumptions that are
    also derived from internally developed models for prepayment
    speeds, default rates and severity.

Of all assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in our
    consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004, 96%
    were valued using observable market prices or market price data
    obtained from third parties, 3% were

96

Table of Contents   

valued using market data or standard modeling techniques with
    market inputs and 1% were valued using internally developed
    models with inputs based on management s judgment of
    market-based assumptions rather than market observations.

Our determination of fair value also affects our accounting for
    other financial instruments. Certain cost basis adjustments that
    affect the value of our financial instruments are based on fair
    value. Master servicing assets and liabilities are recorded at
    the lower of cost or fair value. Impairment of certain assets
    requires an assessment of fair value and the judgment of
    management to determine whether the asset is other than
    temporarily impaired. In the case of an other than temporarily
    impaired security, impairment would negatively affect the
    recorded value of the security and reduce our net income.

Sensitivity
    Analysis for Risk Management Derivatives   

Of the financial instruments discussed above, changes in the
    fair value of our derivatives have the most significant impact
    on net income. The table below provides a sensitivity analysis
    to illustrate the potential impact that changes in the fair
    value of our derivatives would have on our net income. The two
    key variables used in the determination of the fair value of our
    derivatives are the level of interest rates and the implied
    volatility of interest rates. Implied volatility represents the
    market s expectation of potential changes in interest
    rates. It is not uncommon for interest rates and implied
    volatility to change significantly from period to period. These
    changes could affect the valuation of our derivatives in the
    consolidated balance sheets and the resulting gain or loss that
    would be recorded in our net income in the consolidated
    statements of income. Table 10 below shows the potential effect
    on the estimated fair value of our derivatives and on our net
    income of (i) a 10% change in implied volatility,
    (ii) a 100 basis point increase in interest rates and
    (iii) a 50 basis point decrease in interest rates as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003. Our analysis is based on these
    interest rate changes because we believe they reflect reasonably
    possible outcomes as of December 31, 2004.

Table
    10:  Risk Management Derivative Fair Value Sensitivity
    Analysis  

(1)   

Excludes commitments accounted for
    as derivatives.

(2)   

Reflects after-tax effect of
    derivative market value adjustment based on applicable federal
    income tax rate of 35%.

(3)   

Calculated based on an
    instantaneous change in volatility or interest rate.

Amortization
    of Cost Basis Adjustments on Mortgage Loans and Mortgage-Related
    Securities  

We amortize cost basis adjustments on mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities through earnings using the interest
    method, applying a constant effective yield. Cost basis
    adjustments include premiums, discounts and other cost basis
    adjustments on mortgage loans or mortgage-related securities
    that are generally incurred at the time of acquisition, which we
    historically referred to as  deferred price
    adjustments.  When we buy mortgage loans or
    mortgage-related securities, we may not pay the seller the exact
    amount of the unpaid

97

Table of Contents   

principal balance. If we pay more than the unpaid principal
    balance and purchase the mortgage assets at a premium, the
    premium reduces the yield below the stated coupon amount. If we
    pay less than the unpaid principal balance and purchase the
    mortgage assets at a discount, the discount increases the yield
    above the stated coupon amount.

Cost basis adjustments are amortized into earnings as an
    adjustment to the yield of the mortgage loan or mortgage-related
    security based on the contractual terms of the instrument.
    However, SFAS 91 permits the anticipation of prepayments of
    principal to shorten the term of the mortgage loan or
    mortgage-related security if we (i) hold a large number of
    similar loans for which prepayments are probable and
    (ii) the timing and amount of prepayments can be reasonably
    estimated. We meet both criteria on substantially all of the
    mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities held in our
    portfolio. Therefore, for loans where both criteria are met, we
    use prepayment estimates in determining periodic amortization of
    the cost basis adjustments related to these loans. For loans
    that do not meet the foregoing criteria, we use the contractual
    term of the mortgage loan or mortgage-related securities to
    calculate the rate of amortization, which assumes no prepayment
    but considers actual prepayments that occurred during the period
    in determining the amount to be amortized.

We calculate and apply an effective yield to determine the rate
    of amortization of cost basis adjustments into interest income
    over the estimated lives of the investment using the
    retrospective effective interest method to arrive at a constant
    effective yield. When appropriate, our methodology involves
    grouping loans into pools or cohorts based on similar risk
    categories including origination year, coupon bands, acquisition
    period and product type. We update our calculations based on
    changes in estimated prepayment rates and, if necessary, we
    record cumulative adjustments to reflect the updated constant
    effective yield as if it had been in effect since acquisition.

For mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities where we
    anticipate prepayments, our estimate of prepayments requires
    assumptions about borrower prepayment patterns in various
    interest rate environments that involve a significant degree of
    judgment. Typically, we use prepayment forecasts from
    independent third parties in estimating future prepayments.
    Actual prepayments differing from our estimated prepayments
    could increase or decrease current period interest income as
    well as future recognition of interest income. Refer to Table 11
    below for the impact of changes in assumptions.

Sensitivity
    Analysis for Amortizable Cost Basis Adjustments   

Interest rates are a key assumption used in our prepayment
    models. Table 11 shows the estimated effect on our net interest
    income of the amortization of cost basis adjustments using the
    retrospective effective interest method applying a constant
    effective yield based on (i) a 100 basis point
    increase in interest rates and (ii) a 50 basis point
    decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2004 and
    2003. Our analysis is based on these interest rate changes
    because we believe they reflect reasonably possible outcomes as
    of December 31, 2004.

Table
    11:  Amortization of Cost Basis Adjustments  

(1)   

Calculated based on an
    instantaneous change in interest rates.

98

Table of Contents   

As mortgage rates increase, expected prepayment rates generally
    decrease, which slows the amortization of cost basis
    adjustments. Conversely, as mortgage rates decrease, expected
    prepayment rates generally increase, which accelerates the
    amortization of cost basis adjustments.

Allowance
    for Loan Losses and Reserve for Guaranty Losses  

The allowance for loan losses and the reserve for guaranty
    losses represent our estimate of probable credit losses arising
    from loans classified as held for investment in our mortgage
    portfolio as well as loans that back mortgage-related securities
    we guarantee. We use the same methodology to determine our
    allowance for loan losses and our reserve for guaranty losses as
    the relevant factors affecting credit risk are the same. Credit
    risk is the risk of loss to future earnings or future cash flows
    that may result from the failure of a borrower to make the
    payments required by his or her mortgage loan. We are exposed to
    credit risk because we own mortgage loans and have guaranteed to
    MBS trusts that we will supplement mortgage loan collections as
    required to permit timely payment of principal and interest on
    the related Fannie Mae MBS. We strive to mitigate our credit
    risk by, among other things, working with lender servicers,
    monitoring
     loan-to-value 
    ratios and requiring mortgage insurance. See  Risk
    Management Credit Risk Management  below for further
    discussion of how we manage credit risk.

We employ a systematic methodology to determine our best
    estimate of incurred credit losses. This includes aggregating
    homogeneous loans into pools based on similar risk attributes,
    using models to measure historical default and loss experience
    on the homogeneous loan populations, evaluating larger
    multifamily loans individually for impairment, monitoring
    observable data for key trends, as well as documenting the
    results of our estimation process.

Determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and
    the reserve for guaranty losses is complex and requires
    significant judgment by management about the effect of matters
    that are inherently uncertain. When appropriate, our methodology
    involves grouping loans into pools or cohorts based on similar
    risk categories including origination year,
     loan-to-value 
    ratios, loan product types and loan ratings. We use internally
    developed models that consider relevant factors historically
    affecting loan collectibility, such as default rates, severity
    of loss rates and adverse situations that may have occurred
    affecting the borrowers  ability to repay. Management also
    applies judgment in considering factors that have occurred but
    are not yet reflected in the loss factors, such as the estimated
    value of the underlying collateral, other recoveries and
    external and economic factors. The methodology and the amount of
    our allowance for loan losses and reserve for guaranty losses on
    Fannie Mae MBS are reviewed and approved on a quarterly basis by
    our Allowance for Loan Loss Oversight Committee, which is a
    committee chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and comprised of
    senior management from the Single-Family and HCD businesses, the
    Chief Risk Office and the finance organization.

We adjust our estimate of the allowance for loan losses and
    reserve for guaranty losses based on
     period-to-period 
    fluctuations in loss experience, economic conditions in areas of
    geographic concentration and profile of mortgage
    characteristics. Using different assumptions about default
    rates, severity and estimated deterioration in borrowers 
    financial condition than those used in estimating our allowance
    for loan losses and reserve for guaranty losses could have a
    material effect on our net income.

Given that a minimal change in any factor listed above that is
    used for calculation purposes would have a significant impact to
    the allowance and reserve liability and these factors have
    significant interdependencies, we do not believe a sensitivity
    analysis isolating one factor is realistic. Therefore, the
    following example illustrates the impact to the allowance and
    reserve liability given changes to multiple assumptions used for
    these factors. For example, a natural disaster, such as a
    hurricane, might have an adverse impact on net income and our
    allowance for loan losses and reserve for guaranty losses. The
    damage to the properties that serve as collateral for the
    mortgages held in our portfolio and the mortgages underlying our
    mortgage-backed securities could increase our exposure to credit
    risk if the damage to the properties is not covered by hazard
    insurance. Our estimate of probable credit losses related to a
    hurricane would involve considerable judgment and assumptions
    about the extent of the property damage, the impact on borrower
    default rates, the value of the collateral underlying the loans
    and the amount of insurance recoveries. In the case of
    Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, we preliminarily estimated
    default rates, severity of loss rates, value of the underlying
    collateral, and other potential recoveries. As more information
    became available, we determined that the property damage

99

Table of Contents   

was less extensive than had previously been estimated and the
    amount of insurance recoveries would be greater than previously
    expected. Accordingly, we revised our assumptions that in turn
    reduced estimated losses by over 50%.

Consolidation Variable
    Interest Entities  

We are a party to various entities that are considered to be
    variable interest entities ( VIEs ) as defined in
    FIN 46R. Generally, a VIE is a corporation, partnership,
    trust or any other legal structure that either does not have
    equity investors with substantive voting rights or has equity
    investors that do not provide sufficient financial resources for
    the entity to support its activities. We invest in securities
    issued by VIEs, including Fannie Mae MBS created as part of our
    securitization program, certain mortgage- and asset-backed
    securities that were not issued by us and interests in LIHTC
    partnerships and other limited partnerships. Our involvement
    with a VIE may also include providing a guaranty to the entity.

There is a significant amount of judgment required in
    interpreting the provisions of FIN 46R and applying them to
    specific transactions. FIN 46R indicates that either a
    qualitative assessment or a quantitative assessment may be
    required to support the conclusion that an entity is a VIE, as
    well as an assessment of which party, if any, is the primary
    beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is the party that will
    absorb a majority of the expected losses or a majority of the
    expected returns. If the entity is determined to be a VIE, and
    we either qualitatively or quantitatively determine that we are
    the primary beneficiary, we are required to consolidate the
    assets, liabilities and non-controlling interests of that entity.

In order to determine if an entity is considered a VIE, we first
    perform a qualitative analysis, which requires certain
    subjective decisions regarding our assessment, including, but
    not limited to, the design of the entity, the variability that
    the entity was designed to create and pass along to its interest
    holders, the rights of the parties and the purpose of the
    arrangement. If we cannot conclude after qualitative analysis
    whether we are the primary beneficiary, we perform a
    quantitative analysis. Quantifying the variability of a
    VIE s assets is complex and subjective, requiring analysis
    of a significant number of possible future outcomes as well as
    the probability of each outcome occurring. The results of each
    possible outcome are allocated to the parties holding interests
    in the VIE and, based on the allocation, a calculation is
    performed to determine which, if any, is the primary beneficiary.

Qualitative analyses were performed on certain mortgage- and
    asset-backed investment trusts. These analyses considered
    whether the nature of our variable interests exposed us to
    credit or prepayment risk, the two primary drivers of expected
    losses for these VIEs. For those mortgage-backed investment
    trusts that we evaluated using quantitative analyses, we used
    internal models to generate Monte Carlo simulations of cash
    flows associated with the different credit, interest rate and
    housing price environments. Material assumptions include our
    projections of interest rates and housing prices, as well as our
    expectations of prepayment, default and severity rates. The
    projection of future cash flows is a subjective process
    involving significant management judgment. This is primarily due
    to inherent uncertainties related to the interest rate and
    housing price environment, as well as the actual credit
    performance of the mortgage loans and securities that were held
    by each investment trust. If we determined an investment trust
    to be a VIE, we consolidated the investment trust when the
    modeling resulted in our absorption of more than 50% of the
    variability in the expected losses or expected residual returns.
    To demonstrate the sensitivity of the FIN 46R modeling
    results, we considered the impact of different primary
    beneficiary conclusions for the trusts in which a change in the
    variability would affect our primary beneficiary assessment and
    our consolidation determination at adoption of FIN 46R.

If assumptions were changed to cause our variability in trusts
    to increase from an amount between 40% and 50% to greater than
    50%, our total assets and liabilities would increase by
    approximately $1.0 billion.

If assumptions were changed to cause our variability in trusts
    to decrease from an amount between 60% and 50.1% to 50% or less,
    our total assets and liabilities would decrease by approximately
    $500 million.

We also quantitatively examined our LIHTC partnerships and other
    limited partnerships. Internal cash flow models were also used
    to determine if these were VIEs and, if so, whether we were the
    primary beneficiary. LIHTC partnerships are created by third
    parties to finance construction of property, giving rise to tax
    credits for these partnerships. Material assumptions include the
    degree of development cost overruns related to the

100

Table of Contents   

construction of the building, the probability of the lender
    foreclosing on the building, as well as an investor s
    ability to use the tax credits to offset taxable income. The
    projection of these cash flows and probabilities thereof
    requires significant management judgment because of the inherent
    limitations that relate to the use of favorable historical data
    for the projection of future events. Additionally, we reviewed
    similar assumptions and applied cash flow models to determine
    both VIE status and primary beneficiary status for our other
    limited partnership investments.

We are exempt from applying FIN 46R to certain investment
    trusts if the investment trusts meet the criteria of a QSPE, and
    if we do not have the unilateral ability to cause the trust to
    liquidate or change the trust s QSPE status. The QSPE
    requirements significantly limit the activities in which a QSPE
    may engage and the types of assets and liabilities it may hold.
    Management judgment is required to determine whether a
    trust s activities meet the QSPE requirements. To the
    extent any trust fails to meet these criteria, we would be
    required to consolidate its assets and liabilities if, based on
    the provisions of FIN 46R, we are determined to be the
    primary beneficiary of the entity.

The FASB currently is assessing further what activities a QSPE
    may perform. The outcome of these and future assessments may
    affect our interpretation of this guidance, and, consequently,
    the entities we consolidate in future periods.

CONSOLIDATED
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

The following discussion of our consolidated results of
    operations is based on our results for the year ended
    December 31, 2004 and restated results for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002. In conjunction with the
    restatement, we revised the presentation of our consolidated
    statements of income. Table 12 presents a condensed summary of
    our consolidated results of operations.

Table
    12:  Condensed Consolidated Results of
    Operations  

Net income and diluted earnings per share ( EPS )
    totaled $5.0 billion and $4.94, respectively, in 2004,
    compared with $8.1 billion and $8.08 in 2003, and
    $3.9 billion and $3.81 in 2002. We expect high levels of

101

Table of Contents   

period to period volatility in our financial results as part of
    our normal business activities. This volatility is primarily due
    to changes in market conditions that result in periodic
    fluctuations in the estimated fair value of our derivative
    instruments, which we recognize in our consolidated statements
    of income as  Derivatives fair value losses, net. 
    Although we use derivatives as economic hedges to help us manage
    interest rate risk and achieve our targeted interest rate risk
    profile, we do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting under
    SFAS 133. Accordingly, we record our derivative instruments
    at fair value as assets or liabilities in our consolidated
    balance sheets and recognize the fair value gains and losses in
    our consolidated statements of income without consideration of
    offsetting changes in the fair value of the economically hedged
    exposure. The estimated fair value of our derivatives may
    fluctuate substantially from period to period because of changes
    in interest rates, expected interest rate volatility and our
    derivative activity. Based on the composition of our
    derivatives, we generally expect to report decreases in the
    aggregate fair value of our derivatives as interest rates
    decrease.

Our business segments generate revenues from three principal
    sources: net interest income, guaranty fee income, and fee and
    other income. Other significant factors affecting our net income
    include the timing and size of investment and debt repurchase
    gains and losses, equity investments, the provision for credit
    losses, and administrative expenses. We provide a comparative
    discussion of the impact of these items on our consolidated
    results of operations for the three-year period ended
    December 31, 2004 below. We also discuss other items
    presented in our consolidated statements of income.

Net
    Interest Income  

Net interest income, which is the difference between interest
    income and interest expense, is a primary source of our revenue.
    Interest income consists of accrued interest on our consolidated
    interest-earning assets, plus income from the amortization of
    discounts for assets acquired at prices below the principal
    value, less expense from the amortization of premiums for assets
    acquired at prices above principal value. The amount of interest
    income and interest expense recognized in the consolidated
    statements of income is affected by our investment activity,
    debt activity, asset yields, and our cost of debt and will
    fluctuate based on changes in interest rates and changes in the
    amount and composition of our interest-earning assets and
    interest-bearing liabilities. We present net interest income and
    the related net interest yield on a taxable-equivalent basis in
    order to consistently reflect income from taxable and tax-exempt
    investments. We calculate the taxable-equivalent amounts based
    on a marginal tax rate of 35%, which is our statutory tax rate.
    Table 13 presents an analysis of our net interest income and net
    interest yield for 2004, 2003 and 2002.

As described below in  Derivatives Fair Value Losses,
    Net,  we supplement our issuance of debt with interest
    rate-related derivatives to manage the prepayment and duration
    risk inherent in our mortgage investments. The effect of these
    derivatives, in particular the periodic net interest expense
    accruals on interest rate swaps, is not reflected in net
    interest income. See  Derivatives Fair Value Losses,
    Net  for additional information.

102

Table of Contents   

Table
    13:  Analysis of Net Interest Income and
    Yield  

(1)   

Average balances have been
    calculated based on beginning of year and end of year amortized
    cost.

(2)   

Includes average balance on
    nonaccrual loans of $7.6 billion, $6.8 billion and
    $5.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2004,
    2003 and 2002, respectively.

(3)   

Includes cash equivalents.

(4)   

Represents adjustment to permit
    comparison of yields on tax-exempt and taxable assets calculated
    using a 35% marginal tax rate for each of the years presented.

(5)   

Net interest yield is calculated
    based on taxable-equivalent net interest income divided by
    average balance of total interest-earning assets.

Table 14 shows the changes in our net interest income between
    2004 and 2003 and between 2003 and 2002 that are attributable to
    changes in the volume of our interest-earning assets and
    interest-bearing liabilities versus changes in interest rates.

103

Table of Contents   

Table
    14:  Rate/Volume Analysis of Net Interest
    Income  

(1)   

Combined rate/volume variances are
    allocated to the rate and volume variances based on their
    relative size.

(2)   

Represents adjustment to permit
    comparison of yields on tax-exempt and taxable assets calculated
    using a 35% marginal tax rate for each of the years presented.

Taxable-equivalent net interest income of $18.2 billion for
    2004 decreased 7% from 2003, driven by a 12% (25 basis points)
    decline in our taxable-equivalent net interest yield to 1.87%
    that was partially offset by a 6% increase in average
    interest-earning assets. The average yield on our
    interest-earning assets declined 42 basis points to 4.91%, which
    exceeded the benefit we received from a 16 basis point decrease
    in the average yield on our interest-bearing liabilities to
    3.10%. During 2004, our mortgage asset purchases consisted of a
    greater proportion of floating-rate and ARM products, which tend
    to earn lower initial yields than fixed-rate mortgage assets.
    Partially offsetting this reduction in average yield on our
    mortgage investments was a slower rate of amortization of
    premiums in 2004 relative to 2003 due to slower prepayment
    rates. The yield on our total average debt decreased in 2004 due
    to the repurchase and call of a significant amount of higher
    cost long-term debt during 2003 and the issuance of new
    long-term debt at lower rates. However, as short-term interest
    rates began to increase in 2004, the yield on our short-term
    debt began to rise.

Taxable-equivalent net interest income of $19.5 billion for
    2003 increased 6% over 2002, driven by a 11% increase in average
    interest-earning assets that was partially offset by a 5% (12
    basis points) decline in our taxable-equivalent net interest
    yield to 2.12%. Although liquidations of our mortgage assets
    reached a record level during 2003, we experienced growth in our
    average interest-earning assets due in part to the low interest
    rate environment and related increase in mortgage refinancing
    volumes, which contributed to a record level of mortgage asset
    purchases. The interest income generated from a larger volume of
    mortgage assets was partially offset by a reduction in the
    average yield on those assets as we replaced higher yielding
    assets with lower yielding assets. The decline in interest rates
    during the first half of 2003 resulted in faster prepayment
    rates relative to 2002, which accelerated the amortization of
    premiums and contributed to a substantial reduction in the
    average yield on our mortgage assets. The decrease in the yield
    on our
     interest-earning 
    assets was partially

104

Table of Contents   

offset by a reduction in our borrowing costs, as we redeemed
    callable debt and issued new debt at lower interest rates.

Since year-end 2004, we have experienced a decrease in the
    volume of our interest-earning assets as well as in the spread
    between the average yield on these assets and our borrowing
    costs, which we expect to result in a reduction in our net
    interest income and net interest yield in 2005 and 2006.

Guaranty
    Fee Income  

Guaranty fee income primarily consists of contractual guaranty
    fees related to Fannie Mae MBS held in our portfolio and held by
    third-party investors, adjusted for the amortization of upfront
    fees and impairment of guaranty assets, net of a proportionate
    reduction in the related guaranty obligation and deferred
    profit, and impairment of buy-ups.

Guaranty fee income is primarily affected by the amount of
    outstanding Fannie Mae MBS and the compensation we receive for
    providing our guaranty on Fannie Mae MBS. The amount of
    compensation we receive and the form of payment varies depending
    on factors such as the risk profile of the securitized loans,
    the level of credit risk we assume and the negotiated payment
    arrangement with the lender. Our payment arrangements may be in
    the form of an upfront exchange of payments, an ongoing payment
    stream from the cash flows of the MBS trusts, or a
    combination. We typically negotiate a contractual guaranty fee
    with the lender and collect the fee on a monthly basis based on
    the contractual fee rate multiplied by the unpaid principal
    balance of loans underlying a Fannie Mae MBS issuance. In lieu
    of charging a higher contractual fee rate for loans with greater
    credit risk, we may require that the lender pay an upfront fee
    to compensate us for assuming the additional credit risk. We
    refer to this payment as a risk-based pricing adjustment. We
    also may adjust the monthly contractual guaranty fee rate so
    that the pass-through coupon rates on Fannie Mae MBS are in more
    easily tradable increments of a whole or half percent by making
    an upfront payment to the lender ( buy-up ) or
    receiving an upfront payment from the lender
    ( buy-down ).

As we receive monthly contractual payments for our guaranty
    obligation, we recognize guaranty fee income. We defer upfront
    risk-based pricing adjustments and buy-down payments that we
    receive from lenders and recognize these amounts as a component
    of guaranty fee income over the expected life of the underlying
    assets of the related MBS trusts. We record
     buy-up 
    payments we make to lenders as an asset and reduce the recorded
    asset as cash flows are received over the expected life of the
    underlying assets of the related MBS trusts. We assess buy-ups
    for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment and include any impairment recognized as a component
    of guaranty fee income. The extent to which we amortize deferred
    payments into income depends on the rate of expected
    prepayments, which is affected by interest rates. In general, as
    interest rates decrease, expected prepayment rates increase,
    resulting in accelerated accretion into income of deferred fee
    amounts, which increases our guaranty fee income. Prepayment
    rates also affect the estimated fair value of buy-ups. Faster
    than expected prepayment rates shorten the average expected life
    of the underlying assets of the related MBS trusts, which
    reduces the value of our
     buy-up 
    assets and may trigger the recognition of
     other-than 
    temporary impairment.

The average effective guaranty fee rate reflects our average
    contractual guaranty fee rate adjusted for the impact of
    amortization of deferred amounts and
     buy-up 
    impairment. Table 15 shows our guaranty fee income, including
    and excluding
     buy-up 
    impairments, our average effective guaranty fee rate, and Fannie
    Mae MBS activity for 2004, 2003 and 2002.

105

Table of Contents   

Table
    15:  Analysis of Guaranty Fee Income and Average
    Effective Guaranty Fee Rate  

(1)   

Calculated based on guaranty fee
    income components divided by average outstanding Fannie Mae MBS
    and other guaranties. Shown in basis points.

(2)   

Reflects average during the
    reported period calculated based on beginning and end of year
    balances of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans
    underlying Fannie Mae MBS and other guaranties. Other guaranties
    include $14.7 billion, $12.8 billion and
    $11.8 billion as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively, related to long-term standby commitments and
    credit enhancements.

Guaranty fee income of $3.6 billion for 2004 was up 10%
    over 2003, primarily due to an 11% increase in average
    outstanding Fannie Mae MBS and other guaranties. Our average
    effective guaranty fee rate remained essentially flat at
    20.8 basis points in 2004, compared to 21.0 basis points in
    2003. Guaranty fee income of $3.3 billion for 2003 was up
    30% over 2002, driven by a 20% increase in average outstanding
    Fannie Mae MBS and other guaranties and a 9% increase in the
    average effective guaranty fee rate to 21.0 basis points
    from 19.3 basis points.

Growth in outstanding Fannie Mae MBS depends largely on the
    volume of mortgage assets made available for securitization and
    our assessment of the credit risk and pricing dynamics of these
    mortgage assets. During the three-year period from 2002 to 2004,
    we experienced exceptional growth in the amount of outstanding
    Fannie Mae MBS. Outstanding Fannie Mae MBS increased by 47%
    during this period, reflecting an average annual rate of growth
    of approximately 16%. A key driver of this growth was the record
    pace of mortgage originations in the primary market during the
    period, with originations reaching a record $3.9 trillion in
    2003 and our issuance of Fannie Mae MBS reaching a record $1.2
    trillion in 2003. Borrowers took advantage of historically low
    interest rates and refinanced into long-term fixed-rate
    mortgages, which represent the majority of our business volume.
    Increased market demand among depository institutions for
    investments in fixed-rate mortgages, partially stemming from the
    unusually steep yield curve during the period, also fueled
    growth in outstanding Fannie Mae MBS during this period.

Growth in outstanding Fannie Mae MBS slowed in 2004, reflecting
    the impact of a considerable drop in the volume of refinancings
    from the record levels in 2003 and a shift in the primary market
    to an increasing share of originations of lower credit quality
    loans, loans with reduced documentation and loans to fund
    investor properties, as well as a decline in originations of
    traditional mortgages, such as conventional fixed-rate loans.
    Competition from private-label issuers, who have been a
    significant source of funding for these mortgage products,
    reduced our market share and level of MBS issuances. This trend
    continued in 2005 and 2006; however, we began to increase our
    participation in these product types where we concluded that it
    would be economically advantageous or that it would contribute
    to our mission objectives.

Our average effective guaranty fee rate, excluding the effect of
     buy-up 
    impairments, declined to 21.0 basis points in 2004 from
    22.2 basis points in 2003, reflecting a decrease in the
    accretion of deferred fees into income. Mortgage interest rates
    were higher in 2004 relative to 2003, which increased the
    average expected

106

Table of Contents   

life of the underlying assets of outstanding Fannie Mae MBS and
    slowed the pace of the amortization of fees. The increase in the
    average expected life of outstanding Fannie Mae MBS resulted in
    an increase in the value of our
     buy-up 
    assets. Consequently, we recognized substantially less
     buy-up 
    impairment in 2004 than in 2003.

Our average effective guaranty fee rate, excluding the effect of
     buy-up 
    impairments, increased to 22.2 basis points in 2003 from
    21.5 basis points in 2002 as we accelerated the accretion
    of deferred fees into income in response to substantially higher
    than expected prepayment rates that resulted from record low
    mortgage rates. The decrease in the average expected life of
    outstanding Fannie Mae MBS caused the value of our
     buy-up 
    assets to decline, which triggered the recognition of impairment.

Fee and
    Other Income  

Fee and other income includes transaction fees, technology fees,
    multifamily fees and foreign currency transaction gains and
    losses. Transaction and technology fees are largely driven by
    business volume, while foreign currency transaction gains and
    losses are driven by fluctuations in exchange rates on our
    foreign denominated debt. Fee and other income totaled
    $404 million, $340 million and $89 million in
    2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in fee and other
    income in 2004 from 2003 was primarily due to a reduction in net
    foreign currency transaction losses, which more than offset a
    decline in transaction fees from reduced business volumes. The
    increase in 2003 from 2002 was largely due to an increase in
    transaction, technology and multifamily fees resulting from a
    substantial increase in business volumes.

Investment
    Losses, Net  

Investment losses, net includes
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on
     available-for-sale 
    securities,
     lower-of-cost-or-market 
    adjustments on held for sale loans, gains and losses recognized
    on the securitization of loans from our portfolio and the sale
    of securities, unrealized gains and losses on trading securities
    and other investment losses. Investment gains and losses may
    fluctuate significantly from period to period depending upon our
    portfolio investment and securitization activities, changes in
    market conditions that may result in fluctuations in the fair
    value of trading securities, and
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment. Table 16 summarizes the components of investment
    gains and losses for 2004, 2003 and 2002.

Table
    16:  Investment Losses, Net  

(1)   

Excludes
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on guaranty assets and buy-ups as these amounts are
    recognized as a component of guaranty fee income.

Other-than-Temporary
    Impairment   

We routinely evaluate
     available-for-sale 
    securities for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment. We identify securities that are impaired based on
    the extent to which the estimated fair value is less than the
    amortized cost. We consider the impairment to be other than
    temporary if we determine that it is probable that we will be
    unable to collect all of the contractual principal and interest
    payments or if we do not have the ability and intent to hold the
    security until it recovers to its carrying amount. We consider
    many factors in assessing
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment, including the severity and duration of the
    impairment, recent events specific to the issuer
     and/or  the
    industry to which the issuer belongs, external credit ratings
    and recent downgrades, as well as our ability and intent to hold
    such securities until recovery. When we decide to sell an
    impaired

107

Table of Contents   

security and do not expect the fair value of the security to
    fully recover prior to the expected time of sale, we identify
    the security as
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired in the period that the decision to sell is made. We
    provide additional detail on our assessment of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment in  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies. 

We recognized
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on AFS securities totaling $389 million,
    $733 million and $676 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively, primarily related to our investments in
    manufactured housing securities, commercial aircraft lease
    securities, mortgage-related interest-only securities and other
    mortgage-related securities. The impairment amounts are
    reflected in the results of our Capital Markets group and
    detailed below.

Beginning in 2002, there was a significant weakening in the
    manufactured housing sector. As a result, certain manufactured
    housing servicers began to experience financial difficulties,
    triggering a deterioration in the credit quality of certain
    securities as evidenced by credit downgrades and a considerable
    decline in fair value.
     Other-than-temporary 
    impairment on our investments in manufactured housing securities
    totaled $55 million, $511 million and
    $174 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In
    addition, the downturn in the airline industry contributed to a
    decline in the fair value of our aircraft lease securities that
    we deemed to be other than temporary.
     Other-than-temporary 
    impairment on our investments in aircraft lease securities
    totaled $121 million and $39 million in 2003 and 2002,
    respectively. We did not record any other-than-temporary
    impairment on our investments in aircraft lease securities in
    2004.

We are required to write down the cost basis of our investments
    in mortgage-related interest-only securities when there is both
    a decline in fair value below the carrying amount and an adverse
    change in expected cash flows. Decreases in interest rates cause
    the expected lives of these securities to shorten, which
    decreases the expected cash flows and fair value of the
    securities. Interest rates began to decline in 2002 and reached
    a historic low in mid-2003 before beginning to increase during
    the second half of 2003 and 2004. The
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment of $49 million, $78 million and
    $403 million we recognized on mortgage-related
    interest-only securities in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively,
    is reflective of the interest rate environment during each year.
    We recognized a significantly higher impairment amount during
    2002 because of the declining interest rate environment.

We also recognized
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on certain other mortgage-related securities totaling
    $285 million, $23 million and $60 million in
    2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The $285 million of
    impairment recognized in 2004 primarily relates to certain
    securities with unrealized losses as of December 31, 2004
    that we identified for possible sale subsequent to
    December 31, 2004 to comply with OFHEO s directive
    that we achieve a 30% surplus over our statutory minimum capital
    requirement by September 30, 2005. Our intent was to hold
    the identified securities, but as capital requirements dictated,
    we would evaluate selling. Because of the uncertainty of our
    ability to hold these securities until the value fully
    recovered, we were required to recognize the unrealized losses
    as other-than-temporary impairments as of December 31, 2004.

We will continue to regularly assess our investments for
    impairment. A significant downward trend in interest rates could
    result in additional future impairments on our mortgage-related
    interest-only securities. We expect the continued downturn in
    the manufactured housing sector to result in the recognition of
    additional impairment on our investments in manufactured housing
    securities, which had a carrying value of $5.4 billion as
    of December 31, 2004.

Lower-of-Cost-or-Market 
    Adjustments on Held for Sale Loans   

We record loans classified as held for sale at the lower of cost
    or market, with any excess of cost over fair value reflected as
    a valuation allowance and changes in the valuation allowance
    recognized in income. The fair value of held for sale mortgage
    loans will fluctuate from period to period based primarily on
    changes in mortgage interest rates. As interest rates decline,
    the fair value of fixed-rate mortgage loans will generally
    increase, and as interest rates rise, the fair value of
    fixed-rate mortgage loans will generally decrease. In an
    environment of increasing interest rates or significant interest
    rate volatility, the LOCOM adjustment will typically increase.

108

Table of Contents   

We recorded losses related to LOCOM adjustments totaling
    $110 million, $370 million and $17 million in
    2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. We purchased a significant
    volume of mortgage loans in 2003 in response to the record level
    of mortgage originations in the primary market as mortgage
    interest rates reached record lows in the first half of 2003. An
    increase in interest rates in the second half of 2003 reduced
    the value of our HFS loans, resulting in a significantly
    higher amount of LOCOM adjustments in 2003.

Gains
    (Losses) on Fannie Mae Portfolio Securitizations,
    Net   

Portfolio securitizations involve the transfer of mortgage loans
    or mortgage-related securities from our balance sheet to a trust
    to create Fannie Mae MBS (whether in the form of
    single-class Fannie Mae MBS, REMICs or other types of
    beneficial interests). We may retain an interest in the assets
    transferred to a trust in a portfolio securitization by
    receiving a portion of the resulting issued securities. If the
    transfer qualifies as a sale under SFAS 140, we determine
    the gain (loss) on sale by allocating the carrying value of the
    financial assets sold and the interests retained based on their
    relative estimated fair values. The gain (loss) we recognize is
    the difference between the cash proceeds from the sale, net of
    any liabilities assumed, and the cost allocated to the financial
    assets sold. The timing of the recognition of the gain (loss) is
    dependent upon meeting specific accounting criteria. As a
    result, the gain (loss) on sale may be recorded in a different
    accounting period than the period in which the securitization is
    completed. In addition, we may securitize financial assets in a
    different accounting period than the period in which the
    financial assets were purchased. See  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements Note 2, Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies  and  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements Note 7, Portfolio
    Securitizations  for additional information on our
    accounting for Fannie Mae portfolio securitizations.

Gains (losses) on Fannie Mae portfolio securitizations in any
    given period are primarily affected by the level of
    securitization activity, the carrying amount of the financial
    assets sold, and changes in interest rates and prices from the
    time the financial assets are purchased until the completion of
    the securitization. We generally record losses on portfolio
    securitization transactions because we are required to recognize
    a liability for the fair value of our guaranty obligation in
    determining the gain or loss on the sale. We recorded net losses
    on Fannie Mae portfolio securitizations of $34 million and
    $13 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively, and a net gain
    of $13 million in 2002, related to the securitization of
    approximately $12.3 billion, $7.2 billion and
    $3.2 billion, respectively, of mortgage assets where we
    were considered to be the transferor.

Gains
    (Losses) on Sale of Investment Securities, Net   

Gains (losses) on the sale of investment securities in any given
    period are primarily affected by the volume of sales and changes
    in interest rates and prices from the time the securities are
    purchased until the time they are sold. We recorded net gains of
    $185 million and $87 million in 2004 and 2003,
    respectively, and a net loss of $14 million in 2002,
    primarily related to the sale of securities totaling
    $18.4 billion, $24.7 billion and $14.0 billion,
    respectively. We began to increase the level of sales from our
    mortgage portfolio beginning in the latter part of 2004.

We sold a considerably higher amount of mortgage assets from our
    portfolio in 2005 and the first nine months of 2006 relative to
    historical sales levels. The heightened competition for mortgage
    assets in 2005 and 2006 significantly increased the number of
    economically attractive opportunities to sell certain mortgage
    assets, particularly traditional
     15-year  and
     30-year 
    mortgage-related securities, in addition to REMICs structured
    from  15-year 
    and  30-year 
    Fannie Mae MBS held in our portfolio. Sales of selected
    assets from our portfolio contributed to both the enhancement of
    economic value and the reduction of portfolio balances to
    achieve our capital plan objectives.

Unrealized
    Gains (Losses) on Trading Securities, Net   

Trading securities are carried at fair value with unrealized
    gains and losses recorded in earnings. We expect unrealized
    gains and losses on trading securities to fluctuate each period
    with changes in volumes, interest rates and market prices. We
    recorded unrealized gains on trading securities of
    $24 million in 2004, unrealized losses of $97 million
    in 2003 and unrealized gains of $205 million in 2002. The
    increase in interest rates in the second half of 2003 resulted
    in unrealized losses, while the general decline in interest
    rates during 2002 resulted in unrealized gains.

109

Table of Contents   

Derivatives
    Fair Value Losses, Net  

We record all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the
    consolidated balance sheets at estimated fair value and
    recognize changes in fair value in our consolidated statements
    of income. Changes in the fair value of our derivatives,
    including mortgage commitments, resulted in losses of
    $12.3 billion, $6.3 billion and $12.9 billion in
    2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Because we did not qualify for hedge accounting during the
    reported periods, we changed the timing of the recognition of
    the derivative gains and losses in our consolidated statements
    of income and the classification of net contractual interest
    expense accruals on interest rate swaps. Prior to the
    restatement, we had pre-tax cumulative deferred net derivative
    losses reported in AOCI and cumulative debt basis adjustments
    totaling $13.5 billion as of June 30, 2004 and
    $15.8 billion and $16.6 billion as December 31,
    2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. Had we qualified
    for hedge accounting, the cumulative deferred losses would have
    been amortized into income in future periods, resulting in a
    decrease in our future net income. The restatement shifted the
    recognition of the cumulative deferred losses on our derivatives
    to net income from AOCI for the restatement period and
    eliminated the cumulative debt basis adjustments. In addition,
    the net contractual interest expense accruals on interest rate
    swaps, which were previously recorded in our income statement as
    a component of interest expense, are included in
     Derivative fair value losses, net. 

To fully understand the derivatives fair value gains and losses
    recognized in our consolidated statements of income, it is
    important to examine the gains and losses in the context of our
    overall interest rate risk management objectives and strategy,
    including the economic objective in our use of various types of
    derivative instruments, the factors that drive changes in the
    fair value of our derivatives, how these factors affect changes
    in the fair value of other assets and liabilities, and the
    differences in accounting for our derivatives and other
    financial instruments.

While we use debt instruments as the primary means to fund our
    mortgage investments and manage our interest rate risk exposure,
    we supplement our issuance of debt with interest rate-related
    derivatives to manage the prepayment and duration risk inherent
    in our mortgage investments. As an example, by combining a
    pay-fixed swap with short-term variable-rate debt, we can
    achieve the economic effect of converting short-term
    variable-rate debt into long-term fixed-rate debt. By combining
    a pay-fixed swaption with short-term variable-rate debt, we can
    achieve the economic effect of converting short-term
    variable-rate debt into long-term callable debt. The cost of
    derivatives used in our management of interest rate risk is an
    inherent part of the cost of funding and hedging our mortgage
    investments and is economically similar to the interest expense
    that we recognize on the debt we issue to fund our mortgage
    investments. However, because we do not apply hedge accounting
    to our derivatives, the fair value gains or losses on our
    derivatives, including the periodic net contractual interest
    expense accruals on our swaps, are reported as  Derivatives
    fair value losses, net  in our consolidated statements of
    income rather than as interest expense.

Our derivatives consist primarily of
     over-the-counter 
    ( OTC ) contracts and commitments to purchase and sell
    mortgage assets that are valued using a variety of valuation
    models. The valuation model that we select to estimate the fair
    value of our derivatives requires assumptions and inputs, such
    as market prices, yield curves and measures of interest rate
    volatility, which often require judgment. Accordingly, we have
    identified the estimation of the fair value of our derivatives
    as a critical accounting policy, which we discuss further in
     Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Fair Value
    of Financial Instruments Sensitivity Analysis for Risk
    Management Derivatives  and  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements Note 19, Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments.  We also discuss the primary factors affecting
    changes in the fair value of our derivatives. These factors
    include the following:

Changes in the level of interest
    rates:   Because our derivatives predominately
    consist of pay-fixed swaps, we typically report losses in fair
    value when interest rates decrease. As part of our economic
    hedging strategy, these derivatives, in combination with our
    debt issuances, are intended to offset changes in the fair value
    of our mortgage assets, which tend to increase in value when
    interest rates decrease.

Implied interest rate volatility:   We purchase
    option-based derivatives to economically hedge the embedded
    prepayment option in our mortgage investments. A key variable in
    estimating the fair value of

110

Table of Contents   

option-based derivatives is implied volatility, which reflects
    the market s expectation about the future volatility of
    interest rates. Assuming all other factors are held equal,
    including interest rates, a decrease in implied volatility would
    reduce the fair value of our derivatives.

Changes in our derivative activity:   As
    interest rates change, we are likely to take actions to
    rebalance our portfolio to manage our interest rate exposure. As
    interest rates decrease, expected mortgage prepayments are
    likely to increase, which reduces the duration of our mortgage
    investments. In this scenario, we generally will rebalance our
    existing portfolio to manage this risk by terminating pay-fixed
    swaps or adding receive-fixed swaps, which shortens the duration
    of our liabilities. Conversely, when interest rates increase and
    the duration of our mortgage assets increases, we are likely to
    rebalance our existing portfolio by adding pay-fixed swaps that
    have the effect of extending the duration of our liabilities. We
    also add derivatives in various interest rate environments to
    hedge the risk of incremental mortgage purchases that we are not
    able to accomplish solely through our issuance of debt
    securities.

The following tables show the impact of derivatives on our
    consolidated statements of income and consolidated balance
    sheets. Table 17 provides an analysis of changes in the
    estimated fair value of the net derivative asset (liability),
    excluding mortgage commitments, recorded in our consolidated
    balance sheets between the periods December 31, 2004, 2003
    and 2002, including the components of the derivatives fair value
    gains (losses) recorded in our consolidated statements of
    income. As indicated in Table 17, the net derivative
    estimated fair value amount recorded in our consolidated balance
    sheet shifted to a net asset of $5.4 billion as of
    December 31, 2004, from a net liability of
    $6.1 billion as of the beginning of 2002. The general
    effect on our consolidated financial statements of the changes
    in estimated fair value shown in this table is described
    following the table.

Table
    17:  Changes in Risk Management Derivative Assets
    (Liabilities) at Fair Value,
    Net (1)   

(1)   

Excludes mortgage commitments.

(2)   

Represents the net of
     Derivative assets at fair value  and  Derivative
    liabilities at fair value  recorded in our consolidated
    balance sheets, excluding mortgage commitments.

111

Table of Contents   

(3)   

Primarily includes upfront premiums
    paid on option contracts.

(4)   

Primarily represents cash paid upon
    termination of derivative contracts.

(5)   

Reflects net derivatives fair value
    losses recognized in the consolidated statements of income,
    excluding mortgage commitments.

Amounts presented in Table 17 have the following effect on our
    consolidated financial statements:

Cash payments made to purchase options (purchased options
    premiums) increase the derivative asset recorded in the
    consolidated balance sheets.

Cash payments to terminate and/or sell derivative contracts
    reduce the derivative liability recorded in the consolidated
    balance sheets.

Periodic interest payments on our interest rate swap contracts
    also reduce the derivative liability as we accrue these amounts
    based on the contractual terms and recognize the accrual as an
    increase to the net derivative liability recorded in the
    consolidated balance sheets. The corresponding offsetting amount
    is recorded as expense and included as a component of
    derivatives fair value losses in the consolidated statements of
    income.

Changes in the estimated fair value of our derivatives that
    result in a loss are recorded as an increase to the derivative
    liability or as a decrease to the derivative asset recorded in
    the consolidated balance sheets. The corresponding offsetting
    amount is recorded as a component of derivatives fair value
    losses in the consolidated statements of income.

Changes in the estimated fair value of our derivatives that
    result in a gain are recorded as a decrease to the derivative
    liability or as an increase to the derivative asset recorded in
    the consolidated balance sheets. The corresponding offsetting
    amount is recorded as a component of derivatives fair value
    gains in the consolidated statements of income.

Table 18 provides additional detail on the derivatives fair
    value gains and losses recognized in our consolidated statements
    of income for 2004, 2003 and 2002 by type of derivative
    instrument. The
     5-year 
    interest rate swap rate, which is shown below in Table 18 for
    each period, is a key reference interest rate affecting the
    estimated fair value of these derivatives.

112

Table of Contents   

Table
    18:  Derivatives Fair Value Gains (Losses),
    Net  

(1)   

Includes MBS options, forward
    starting debt, forward purchase and sale agreements, swap credit
    enhancements, mortgage insurance contracts and exchange-traded
    futures.

113

Table of Contents   

Table 19 provides additional detail on the estimated fair value
    of derivatives recorded in our consolidated balance sheets and
    the related outstanding notional amount by derivative instrument
    type as of December 31, 2004 and 2003. We describe our risk
    management derivative activity in  Risk
    Management Interest Rate Risk Management and Other Market
    Risks.  We describe our credit exposure on our risk
    management derivatives in  Risk Management Credit Risk
    Management Institutional Counterparty Credit Risk
    Management. 

Table
    19:  Notional and Fair Value of Derivatives  

(1)   

Represents the net amount of
     Derivative assets at fair value  and  Derivative
    liabilities at fair value  in the consolidated balance
    sheets.

(2)   

Includes MBS options, swap credit
    enhancements, and the fair value of mortgage insurance contracts
    that are accounted for as derivatives. These mortgage insurance
    contracts have payment provisions that are not based on a
    notional amount.

As discussed above, because a significant portion of our
    derivatives consists of pay-fixed swaps, we expect the aggregate
    estimated fair value of our derivatives to decline and result in
    derivative losses when long-term interest rates decline because
    we are paying a higher fixed rate of interest relative to the
    current interest rate environment. For the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, we recorded net periodic
    contractual interest expense accruals on our interest rate swaps
    totaling $5.0 billion, $6.4 billion and
    $7.6 billion, respectively, which are shown above in Table
    17 and included in the derivatives fair value losses recognized
    in the consolidated statements of income. Had we elected to fund
    our mortgage investments with long-term fixed- rate debt instead
    of a combination of short-term variable-rate debt and interest
    rate swaps, the expense related to our interest rate swap
    accruals would have been reflected as interest expense instead
    of as a component of our derivatives fair value losses.

114

Table of Contents   

During 2004, there was a decrease in implied volatility that
    resulted in a decline in the estimated fair value of our
    option-based derivatives, including both our pay-fixed and
    receive-fixed swaptions. Although we recorded derivatives fair
    value losses of $12.3 billion in our consolidated
    statements of income due to the decrease in the estimated fair
    value of our derivatives, as discussed in  Supplemental
    Non-GAAP Information Fair Value Balance Sheet, 
    the estimated fair value of our net assets increased by
    $8.9 billion in 2004, net of equity transactions that
    included proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock and
    payment of dividends. This increase in estimated fair value was
    driven in part by an increase in the estimated fair value of our
    mortgage assets that resulted from the decrease in implied
    volatility. Since
     year-end 
    2004, interest rates have generally increased through 2005 and
    remain at generally higher levels through November 2006. As a
    result, we expect to report significantly lower losses from our
    risk management derivatives in 2005 and 2006, relative to the
    losses reported in 2004.

While changes in the estimated fair value of our derivatives
    resulted in net expense in each reported period, we incurred
    this expense as part of our overall interest rate risk
    management strategy to economically hedge the prepayment and
    duration risk of our mortgage investments. As more fully
    described in  Risk Management Interest Rate Risk
    Management and Other Market Risks,  we believe our duration
    gap, which is a measure of the difference between the estimated
    durations of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities,
    is a useful tool in assessing our interest rate exposure and our
    management thereof as it shows the extent to which changes in
    the fair value of our mortgage investments are offset by changes
    in the fair value of our debt and derivatives.

During 2002 and prior periods, our interest rate risk parameters
    were consistent with maintaining our duration gap within a range
    of plus or minus six months about two-thirds of the time. This
    resulted in our taking more interest rate risk than if we had
    managed the duration within a tighter range, which could prove
    beneficial or detrimental to our investment results depending
    upon interest rate changes and how we managed them. Changes in
    market conditions during 2002, including significant interest
    rate volatility coupled with low interest rates that fueled a
    surge in refinancings and a substantial increase in expected
    prepayments, caused the duration of our mortgages to shorten by
    a much larger extent than the duration of our liabilities. As a
    result, our duration gap during this period fell outside of our
    target range for three consecutive months and reached minus
    14 months, reflecting the unusually large mismatch between
    the durations of our assets and liabilities. As this occurred,
    the fair value of our assets increased less than the fair value
    of our liabilities, and as such the fair value of our net assets
    and our operating results were significantly less than had we
    managed our duration gap to a tighter range. In other periods,
    managing our duration gap to a wider range benefited the fair
    value of our net assets and our operating results.

In mid-2003, we announced the implementation of new corporate
    financial disciplines that resulted in our taking less interest
    rate exposure, which had the effect of reducing the potential
    for economic losses resulting from changes in interest rates but
    also reducing the potential for economic gains. As part of these
    disciplines, we committed to managing the portfolio s
    duration gap within a target range of plus or minus six months
    substantially all of the time. Our duration gap has not exceeded
    plus or minus one month for any month since October 2004. We
    present our monthly duration gap for the period January 1,
    2002 to December 31, 2004 in  Risk
    Management Interest Rate Risk Management and Other Market
    Risks Monitoring and Measuring Interest Rate Risk.  To
    maintain our duration gap within the tighter tolerances, we
    issue more callable debt, purchase more options and take
    rebalancing actions earlier and with greater frequency than we
    did prior to adopting this policy. However, the increased level
    of optionality provided by our callable debt and option-based
    derivatives generally reduces the magnitude of rebalancing
    actions needed for a given change in interest rates. The effects
    of our investment strategy, including our interest rate risk
    management, are reflected in changes in the fair value of our
    net assets over time.

Debt
    Extinguishment Losses, Net  

We call debt securities in order to reduce future debt costs as
    a part of our integrated interest rate risk management strategy.
    We also repurchase debt in order to enhance the liquidity of our
    debt. Debt extinguishment losses are affected by the level of
    debt extinguishment activity and the price performance of our
    debt securities. Typically, the amount of debt repurchased has a
    greater impact on gains and losses

115

Table of Contents   

recognized on debt extinguishments than the amount of debt
    called. Debt repurchases, unlike debt calls, may require the
    payment of a premium and therefore result in higher
    extinguishment costs. As a result, we historically have
    generally repurchased high interest rate debt at times (and in
    amounts) when we believed we had sufficient income available to
    absorb or offset those higher costs. In its May 2006 report,
    OFHEO stated that our debt repurchases undertaken during 2001
    through 2003 were made to help achieve a stable pattern of
    earnings growth and meet analyst expectations.

We recognized a pre-tax loss of $152 million in 2004 from
    the repurchase of $4.3 billion and call of
    $155.6 billion of debt. In comparison, we recognized a
    pre-tax loss of $2.7 billion in 2003 from the repurchase of
    $19.8 billion and call of $188.7 billion of debt, and
    a pre-tax loss of $814 million in 2002 from the repurchase
    of $7.9 billion and call of $121.0 billion of debt. As
    interest rates began to rise in 2004, we began to curb our debt
    repurchase activity.

Loss from
    Partnership Investments  

We make numerous investments in limited partnerships, which
    primarily include investments in LIHTC partnerships that sponsor
    affordable housing projects and provide tax credits. These
    investments assist us in achieving our affordable housing
    mission and also provide a satisfactory return on capital. These
    investments, which totaled approximately $8.1 billion and
    $6.4 billion as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively, generate tax credits and net operating losses that
    reduce our federal income tax liability. In some cases, we
    consolidate these entities in our financial statements. In other
    cases, we account for these investments using the equity method
    and record our share of operating losses in the consolidated
    statements of income as  Loss from partnership
    investments.  Investments we accounted for under the equity
    method totaled $4.2 billion and $6.0 billion as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We provide
    additional information on the nature of these investments and
    applicable accounting in  Off-Balance Sheet
    Arrangements LIHTC Partnership Interests. 

Loss from partnership investments, net, accounted for under the
    equity method totaled $702 million, $637 million and
    $509 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The
    increase in losses in each year was primarily due to our
    increased level of LIHTC partnership investments. We further
    increased our investments in LIHTC partnerships in 2005 and
    2006, which we expect will generate additional tax credits and
    net operating losses. For more information on our use of tax
    credits associated with our LIHTC investments, refer to
     Provision for Federal Income Taxes  below.

Provision
    for Credit Losses  

The provision for credit losses results from a detailed analysis
    estimating an appropriate allowance for loan losses for
    single-family and multifamily loans classified as held for
    investment in our mortgage portfolio and reserve for guaranty
    losses for credit-related losses associated with certain
    mortgage loans that back Fannie Mae MBS held in our portfolio
    and held by other investors. The provision for credit losses may
    reflect an increase or decrease, depending on whether we need to
    increase or decrease the allowance for loan losses and reserve
    for guaranty losses based on our estimate of incurred losses in
    our portfolio as of each balance sheet date.

While the combined allowance for loan losses and reserve for
    guaranty losses increased as of December 31, 2004 from
    December 31, 2003, the provision for credit losses
    decreased slightly to $352 million in 2004, down $13 million, or
    4%, from 2003. The increase in the combined allowance for loan
    losses and reserve for guaranty losses was due to an observed
    trend of reduced levels of recourse proceeds from lenders on
    charged-off loans. While this trend had the effect of increasing
    the provision for credit losses in 2004, lower than anticipated
    charge-offs more than offset this impact, leading to a slight
    reduction in the provision compared to 2003.

The provision for credit losses increased to $365 million
    in 2003, up $81 million, or 29%, over 2002, primarily due
    to the significant increase in our single-family mortgage credit
    book of business and higher incurred losses on certain
    manufactured housing securities guaranteed by us.

116

Table of Contents   

We provide additional detail on charge-offs and factors
    affecting our allowance for loan losses and reserve for guaranty
    losses in  Risk Management Credit Risk
    Management Mortgage Credit Risk Management Allowance
    for Loan Losses and Reserve for Guaranty Losses  and
     Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance
    for Loan Losses and Reserve for Guaranty Losses. 

Other
    Non-interest Expense  

Foreclosed
    Property Expense (Income)   

Foreclosed property expense (income) includes gains and losses
    on the sale of acquired properties and valuation losses on REO
    properties held for sale. Foreclosed property expense (income)
    is affected by the level of foreclosures and the loss severity
    rate (average loss per case). Home price appreciation and credit
    enhancements generally reduce the severity of our losses.

We recorded foreclosed property expense of $11 million in
    2004, compared with income of $12 million and
    $11 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. The
    acceleration of home prices during this period helped to
    mitigate our foreclosure losses and resulted in gains on the
    sale of certain REO properties. The slowdown in the housing
    market during 2006 has resulted in substantially lower home
    price appreciation, which is likely to increase our loss
    severity rates. We provide additional detail on our management
    of credit losses, including foreclosed property expense, in
     Risk Management Credit Risk Management Mortgage
    Credit Risk Management. 

Administrative
    Expenses   

Administrative expenses include costs incurred to run our daily
    operations, such as salaries and employee benefits, professional
    services, occupancy expense and technology expenses.
    Administrative expenses totaled $1.7 billion in 2004, up
    14% over 2003, primarily due to the write off of
    $159 million of software that had been previously
    capitalized in conjunction with the reengineering of our core
    technology infrastructure. Administrative expenses totaled
    $1.5 billion in 2003, up 26% over 2002, primarily due to
    higher levels of charitable contributions, including a
    $75 million contribution to the Fannie Mae Foundation, and
    an increase in stock-based compensation expense recognized in
    conjunction with our adoption of the fair value recognition
    provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for
    Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ), in
    2003.

Costs associated with the restatement process and related
    regulatory examinations, investigations and litigation defense
    significantly increased our administrative expenses in 2005 and
    for the first nine months of 2006. Administrative expenses
    totaled an estimated $2.2 billion for 2005 and an estimated
    $2.3 billion for the first nine months of 2006. Based on
    our current projections, we estimate that, for 2006, our
    restatement and related regulatory costs will total
    approximately $850 million and costs attributable to or
    associated with the preparation of our consolidated financial
    statements and periodic SEC financial reports for periods
    subsequent to 2004 will total over $200 million. We
    anticipate that the costs associated with the preparation of our
    post-2004 financial statements and periodic SEC reports will
    continue to have a substantial impact on administrative expenses
    until we are current in filing our periodic financial reports
    with the SEC. We believe that our administrative expenses for
    2007 will be comparable to those for 2006.

Other
    Expenses   

Other expenses include credit enhancement expenses that relate
    to costs associated with the purchase of additional mortgage
    insurance to protect against credit losses, regulatory penalties
    and other miscellaneous expenses. Other expenses totaled
    $607 million, $156 million and $105 million in
    2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in other
    expenses in 2004 from 2003 primarily stems from the recognition
    in 2004 of the $400 million civil penalty that we paid to
    the U.S. Treasury in 2006 pursuant to our settlements with
    OFHEO and the SEC.

Provision
    for Federal Income Taxes  

The provision for federal income taxes includes deferred tax
    expense plus current tax expense. Deferred tax expense
    represents the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability
    balance during the year plus any change in a valuation
    allowance. The current tax expense represents the amount of tax
    currently payable to or

117

Table of Contents   

receivable from tax authorities. The provision for income taxes
    does not include the tax effect related to adjustments recorded
    in AOCI.

Our effective income tax rate, excluding the provision for taxes
    related to extraordinary amounts and the cumulative effect of
    change in accounting principle, was reduced below our 35%
    statutory rate to 17%, 24% and 18% in 2004, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively. The difference in our statutory rate and effective
    tax rate is primarily due to the tax benefits we receive from
    our investments in LIHTC partnerships that help in supporting
    our mission. As disclosed in  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements Note 11, Income Taxes,  our
    effective tax rate would have been 32%, 31% and 30% in 2004,
    2003 and 2002, respectively, had we not received the tax
    benefits from our investments in LIHTC partnerships.

The variance in our effective income tax rate over the past
    three years is primarily due to the combined effect of
    fluctuations in our pre-tax income, which affects the relative
    tax benefit of tax-exempt income and tax credits, and an
    increase in the actual dollar amount of tax credits. Our
    effective income tax rate may vary from period to period,
    depending on, among other factors, our earnings and the level of
    tax credits. We expect tax credits resulting from our
    investments in LIHTC partnerships to grow in the future, which
    is likely to reduce our effective tax rate. The extent to which
    we are able to use all of the tax credits generated by existing
    or future investments in housing tax credit partnerships to
    reduce our federal income tax liability will depend on the
    amount of our future federal income tax liability, which we
    cannot predict with certainty.

We recorded a net deferred tax asset of $6.1 billion and
    $4.1 billion as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively. We have not recorded a valuation allowance against
    our net deferred tax asset as we anticipate it is more likely
    than not that the results of future operations will generate
    sufficient taxable income to realize the entire tax benefit.

Extraordinary
    Gains (Losses), Net of Tax Effect  

When we determine that we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE
    under FIN 46R, we are required to consolidate the assets
    and liabilities of the VIE in our consolidated financial
    statements at fair value. Effective with the adoption of
    FIN 46R, any difference between the then fair value and the
    previous carrying amount of our interests in the VIE is recorded
    as an extraordinary gain (loss), net of tax effect, in our
    consolidated statements of income. As a result of our adoption
    of FIN 46R in 2003, we recorded an extraordinary gain, net
    of tax effect, of $195 million due to the consolidation of
    VIEs.

118

Table of Contents   

BUSINESS
    SEGMENT RESULTS  

Table 20 provides a summary of the financial results for each of
    our business segments for the years ended December 31,
    2004, 2003 and 2002.

Table
    20:  Business Segment Results Summary  

(1)   

Includes interest income, guaranty
    fee income, and fee and other income.

We use various methodologies to allocate certain balance sheet
    and income statement line items to the responsible operating
    segment. For a description of our allocation methodologies and
    more financial detail on our business segments, see  Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 15, Segment
    Reporting.  Following is an analysis and discussion of the
    performance of our business segments.

Single-Family
    Credit Guaranty Business  

Our Single-Family Credit Guaranty business generated net income
    of $2.5 billion, $2.5 billion and $2.0 billion in
    2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The significant components of
    Single-Family net income include guaranty fees, net interest
    income, fee and other income, the provision for credit losses
    and other expenses.

Net income for the Single-Family business segment remained
    essentially flat in 2004 from 2003, with an increase in guaranty
    fee income offset by lower fee and other income, and higher
    expenses. Guaranty fee income increased by 6% in 2004 from 2003,
    primarily due to growth in average outstanding single-family
    Fannie Mae MBS in 2004. The average effective guaranty fee rate
    on single-family Fannie Mae MBS remained essentially flat in
    2004 as compared to 2003. This increase in guaranty fee income
    was offset primarily by: (1) an 11% increase in other
    expenses in 2004, due to the allocation of a portion of the $400
    million civil penalty paid to the U.S. Treasury in connection
    with our settlements with the SEC and OFHEO; (2) a 21%
    decline in fee and other income in 2004 due to lower
    technology-related transactions and associated

119

Table of Contents   

revenues, which was driven by lower single-family business
    volumes in 2004 as compared to 2003; and (3) a 4% increase
    in our provision for federal income taxes, due to higher pre-tax
    earnings.

Net income for the Single-Family business segment increased by
    27% in 2003 from 2002, with significant increases in all revenue
    components partially offset by increases in other expenses, the
    provision for federal income taxes and the provision for credit
    losses. The primary reason for the increase in Single-Family net
    income in 2003 was a 29% increase in guaranty fee income in 2003
    from 2002. This increase in guaranty fee income was primarily
    due to growth in average outstanding single-family Fannie Mae
    MBS in 2003. Also contributing to the increase in guaranty fee
    income in 2003 was an increase in our average effective guaranty
    fee rate on single-family Fannie Mae MBS. This increase in the
    average effective single-family guaranty fee rate was primarily
    attributable to accelerated income recognition resulting from
    higher than expected prepayments that occurred in 2003. Other
    factors contributing to the increase in net income for the
    Single-Family business segment in 2003 included: (1) a 34%
    increase in fee and other income in 2003, primarily due to
    significantly higher technology-related transactions and
    associated revenues driven by higher single-family business
    volumes in 2003 as compared to 2002; and (2) an 85%
    increase in investment gains from increased securitization
    activities. These increases were partially offset by: (1) a
    27% increase in the provision for federal income taxes, due to
    higher pre-tax earnings in 2003 as compared to 2002; (2) a
    23% increase in other expenses in 2003 from 2002, due to higher
    direct and allocated costs, which were driven by higher
    single-family business volumes in 2003 as compared to 2002 and
    higher average outstanding single-family Fannie Mae MBS in 2003;
    and (3) a 40% increase in the provision for credit losses
    in 2003 from 2002, primarily due to the increase in our
    single-family mortgage credit book of business in 2003 and an
    increase in the guaranty liability relating to mortgage-related
    securities backed by manufactured housing.

As described in  Consolidated Results of Operations 
    above, we experienced exceptional growth in our single-family
    mortgage credit book of business of 25.9% from 2002 to 2004.
    This growth was largely due to the record pace of mortgage
    originations over that period. Growth in outstanding
    single-family Fannie Mae MBS slowed from 2003 to 2004,
    reflecting the impact of a decrease in mortgage originations
    from the record levels of originations in 2003, as well as
    increased competition from private-label issuers of
    single-family mortgage-related securities.

During
     2002-2004, 
    our Single-Family business continued focusing on lender
    relationships, effectively increasing revenues and managing
    credit risk. However, some fundamental changes in the mortgage
    market began posing challenges to our participation in the
    secondary market, with such challenges continuing today.

First, there was intense competition for the purchase of
    mortgage assets by a growing number of mortgage investors
    through a variety of investment vehicles and structures. While
    single-family mortgage originations posted the second strongest
    year in history at $2.8 trillion ($1.3 trillion for home
    purchase and $1.5 trillion for refinancing) in 2004, the
    appetite of other investors to purchase and hold mortgages also
    remained strong.

Second, in a steeper interest rate curve environment and with a
    variety of new mortgage products being introduced and accepted
    by investors at tightening credit spreads, consumers
    increasingly took advantage of adjustable-rate mortgages,
    including non-traditional products such as interest-only ARMs,
    negative-amortizing ARMs and a variety of other product and risk
    combinations. This meaningfully changed the overall mix of
    mortgage originations in the primary mortgage market away from
    the long-term fixed-rate mortgage, where we have historically
    had the greatest market penetration. In addition, the sub-prime
    mortgage market, where we had little presence, began to
    represent a progressively greater portion of mortgage
    originations.

Third, as consumer demand for floating-rate and sub-prime
    mortgage loans grew, so did demand from other mortgage
    investors, which accelerated the growth of competing
    securitization options in the form of private-label
    mortgage-related securities. This development challenged the
    competitive position of our Fannie Mae MBS in the secondary
    market and sparked aggressive competition for loans.

We are responding to these challenges with a focus on
    understanding and serving our customers  needs,
    strengthening our relationships with key partners, and helping
    lenders reach and serve new, emerging and non-

120

Table of Contents   

traditional markets by providing more flexible, low-cost
    mortgage options. We also continue to expand our lending options
    for borrowers with weaker credit histories.

HCD
    Business  

Our Housing and Community Development business generated net
    income of $337 million, $286 million and
    $184 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The
    significant components of HCD net income include guaranty fees,
    fee and other income, other expenses, and income tax benefits
    and losses associated with LIHTC and other partnership
    investments.

Net income for the HCD business segment increased 18% from 2003
    to 2004, with an increase in guaranty fees, fee and other
    income, and tax benefits associated with HCD s partnership
    investments partially offset by higher losses from partnership
    investments, higher net interest expense and increased other
    expenses. Guaranty fee income increased by 25% in 2004, as a
    result of growth in the average outstanding multifamily book of
    business in 2004 at stable effective guaranty fee rates. Fee and
    other income increased by 49% in 2004, attributable to an
    increase in multifamily transaction fees earned from
    substantially higher borrower refinancing activity in 2004 as
    compared to 2003. These increases in revenues were partially
    offset by a 66% increase in other expenses in 2004, reflecting
    HCD s portion of the $400 million civil penalty paid
    to the U.S. Treasury in connection with our settlements
    with the SEC and OFHEO, as well as increased direct and
    allocated costs. Also offsetting these revenues was a 45%
    increase in net interest expense in 2004, reflecting higher
    internal funding costs due to our increased investments in LIHTC
    and other equity investments. HCD s results for 2004
    include a 19% increase in income tax benefits, largely
    attributable to growth in LIHTC and other partnership investment
    balances, reduced by a 10% increase in pre-tax losses from these
    partnership investments.

Net income for the HCD business segment increased 55% from 2002
    to 2003, with increases in guaranty fees, fee and other income,
    and tax benefits associated with HCD s partnership
    investments partially offset by higher losses from partnership
    investments and increased other expenses. Guaranty fee income
    increased by 12% in 2003, as a result of growth in the average
    outstanding multifamily book of business in 2003 at stable
    effective guaranty fee rates. Fee and other income increased by
    40% in 2003, attributable to an increase in multifamily
    transaction fees earned from higher borrower refinancing
    activity in 2003 as compared to 2002. These increases in
    revenues were partially offset by a 27% increase in other
    expenses in 2003, reflecting higher direct and allocated costs.
    HCD s results for 2003 include a 29% increase in income tax
    benefits, largely attributable to growth in LIHTC and other
    partnership investment balances, reduced by a 25% increase in
    pre-tax losses from these partnership investments.

The provision for credit losses remained stable for all three
    years, which reflects our high credit standards.  Losses from
    partnership investments primarily include our share of net
    operating losses for LIHTC and other partnership investments
    accounted for under the equity method. By design, net operating
    losses generated by LIHTC properties provide tax benefits to
    investors, in addition to the tax credits generated.

We are one of the largest participants in the multifamily
    secondary market. HCD s multifamily business has been
    challenged in recent years. Strong competition for loans backed
    by multifamily properties has led to a decline in the
    availability of loans that meet our credit and return
    requirements. Competition has been fueled by private-label
    issuers of CMBS and aggressive bidding for multifamily debt
    among institutional investors, which reflects the high level of
    funds available for investment in the secondary mortgage market.
    In addition, market fundamentals have been mixed. Low mortgage
    rates in 2003 and 2004 led to a record number of first-time
    homebuyers, many of whom were formerly renters, and a slowly
    recovering job market kept potential new renters from entering
    apartments. These factors led to rental vacancy rates higher
    than historical norms. Capitalization rates (the ratio of net
    operating income to property value a measure of expected
    return on investment) meanwhile fell to extremely low levels,
    which likely reflected other investors  willingness to
    accept greater risk. We have seen improvement in some of these
    fundamentals in 2006, with monthly rents increasing and vacancy
    rates falling. As a result of these trends, since the end of
    2004, we have experienced a downward trend in the average
    effective guaranty fee rate on new issuances of Fannie Mae MBS
    backed by multifamily mortgage loans.

121

Table of Contents   

We expect private-label issuers of CMBS to continue to provide
    significant competition to our HCD business. HCD has been
    responding to market challenges with an increased emphasis on
    serving partner needs with customized lending options and is
    advancing a number of efficiency initiatives that will help make
    it quicker and easier to do business with us and at a lower
    cost. HCD also continues to grow and diversify its business into
    new areas that expand the supply of affordable housing, such as
    increased investment in rental and for-sale housing projects,
    including LIHTC investments. HCD further enables the expansion
    of affordable housing stock by participating in specialized debt
    financing, acquiring mortgage loans from a variety of new public
    and private partners, and increasing other community lending
    activities.

Capital
    Markets Group  

Our Capital Markets segment generated net income of
    $2.1 billion, $5.3 billion and $1.8 billion in
    2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The $3.2 billion, or
    60%, decrease in the net income of our Capital Markets segment
    in 2004 from 2003 was primarily due to:

a $6.0 billion, or 95%, increase in derivatives fair value
    losses to $12.3 billion in 2004, primarily due to changes
    in interest rates and a decrease in implied volatility that
    resulted in a decline in the fair value of our option-based
    derivatives; and

a $1.3 billion, or 7%, decline in net interest income in
    2004 from 2003, primarily due to a 12% decline in our net
    interest yield due to increasing short-term interest rates and a
    shift in portfolio purchases to a greater percentage of ARM
    loans, floating-rate securities and other short-term assets that
    have lower initial spreads, partially offset by a 6% increase in
    average interest-earning assets.

These factors were partially offset in 2004 by the following:

a $2.5 billion, or 94%, decrease in debt extinguishment
    losses in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily due to a
    significant decrease in the amount of our debt securities
    repurchased;

a $1.3 billion, or 70%, decrease in the provision for
    federal income taxes in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily due
    to a significant reduction in taxable income; and

a $861 million, or 66%, decrease in investment losses from
    2004 to 2003, primarily due to a significant reduction in
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments compared to 2003 on certain securities backed by
    manufactured housing loans and aircraft leases, and reduced
    losses from
     lower-of-cost-or-market 
    adjustments on HFS loans, resulting from lower loan acquisition
    volumes and more stable interest rates in 2004.

The $3.5 billion, or 200%, increase in the net income of
    our Capital Markets segment in 2003 from 2002 was driven
    primarily by:

a $6.6 billion, or 51%, decrease in derivatives fair value
    losses to $6.3 billion in 2003, primarily due to an
    increase in interest rates during the second half of 2003 as
    compared to a decline in interest rates in 2002; and

a $1.0 billion, or 6%, increase in net interest income in
    2003 from 2002, primarily due to a 12% increase in the amount of
    average interest-earning assets, partially offset by a 6%
    decline in the net interest yield.

These factors were partially offset in 2003 by the following:

a $1.9 billion, or 231%, increase in debt extinguishment
    losses in 2003 as compared to 2002, primarily due to a
    significant increase in the amount of our debt securities
    repurchased;

a $1.5 billion, or 372%, increase in the provision for
    federal income taxes in 2003 as compared to 2002, primarily due
    to a significant increase in taxable income; and

a $765 million, or 141%, increase in investment losses in
    2003 as compared to 2002, primarily due to increased losses on
    our trading portfolio and higher losses on
     lower-of-cost-or-market 
    adjustments on HFS loans.

122

Table of Contents   

Mortgage
    Investments   

Table 21 summarizes our purchases, sales and liquidations of
    mortgage-related assets for the years ended December 31,
    2004, 2003 and 2002.

Table
    21:  Mortgage Portfolio
    Activity (1)   

(1)   

Excludes premiums, discounts and
    other deferred price adjustments.

(2)   

Includes scheduled repayments,
    prepayments and foreclosures.

(3)   

Consists of mortgage loans with
    contractual maturities at purchase equal to or less than
    15 years.

(4)   

Consists of mortgage securities
    with maturities of 15 years or less at issue date.

(5)   

Represents liquidations as a
    percentage of the average gross mortgage portfolio.

Mortgage
    Investment Activity in 2004  

Our mortgage purchases in 2004 decreased by $267.3 billion,
    or 51%, from our purchases in 2003. In 2004, spreads between our
    debt and mortgage assets were very narrow throughout the year,
    reflecting both strong investor demand for mortgage assets from
    banks, funds and other investors, and the impact of a steep
    yield curve. Accordingly, because fewer available mortgage
    assets met our risk/return objectives in 2004 as compared to
    2003, we purchased fewer mortgage assets in 2004. In addition,
    mortgage liquidations in 2004 decreased by $207.7 billion,
    or 46%, from liquidations in 2003, due to higher prevailing
    mortgage rates in 2004, which reduced refinancing activity in
    2004 as compared to 2003. Due to lower levels of liquidations,
    fewer purchases of mortgage assets were necessary in order to
    maintain the size of our mortgage portfolio. Because
    liquidations of the mortgage assets in our portfolio in 2004
    were roughly equal to our purchases of mortgage assets in 2004,
    our mortgage portfolio balance increased only slightly from 2003
    to 2004.

123

Table of Contents   

Mortgage
    Investment Activity in 2003  

Our mortgage purchases in 2003 increased by $172.6 billion,
    or 49%, from our purchases in 2002. Mortgage originations
    reached a record level of $3.9 trillion in 2003 based on
    historically low mortgage rates, particularly during the first
    half of the year, which led to significant refinancing activity
    in 2003. This, coupled with a favorable spread between our debt
    and mortgage assets led to high levels of purchases by us, which
    were partially offset by portfolio liquidations. Mortgage
    liquidations in 2003 increased by $179.3 billion, or 65%,
    from liquidations in 2002. Our purchases of mortgage assets in
    2003 outpaced the amount of mortgage liquidations by
    $69.6 billion, contributing to the increase in the net
    mortgage portfolio.

Recent
    Trends in Mortgage Investment Activity  

Our mortgage investment activities during 2005 and 2006 were
    conducted within the context of our capital restoration plan,
    which defined the management of  total balance sheet size
    by reducing the portfolio principally through normal mortgage
    liquidations  as one of two key elements that would
    contribute to the achievement of our capital goal. The plan also
    provided that, as a contingency measure to provide additional
    capital, we would also consider reducing our mortgage portfolio
    balances through asset sales.

OFHEO announced on November 1, 2005 that we had achieved a
    30% surplus over minimum capital at September 30, 2005.
    Under our May 23, 2006 consent order with OFHEO, we agreed
    to continue to maintain a 30% capital surplus over our statutory
    minimum capital requirement until the Director of OFHEO, in his
    discretion, determines the requirement should be modified or
    allowed to expire, taking into account factors such as
    resolution of accounting and internal control issues. We also
    agreed not to increase the size of our net mortgage portfolio
    above the $727.75 billion amount of net mortgage assets
    held as of December 31, 2005, except in limited
    circumstances at OFHEO s discretion.

Our portfolio purchases in 2005 were significantly lower than in
    2004, due to both our assessment of the pricing for fixed-rate
    mortgage assets and our focus on managing our balance sheet size
    to achieve our capital plan objectives. Portfolio liquidations
    were lower in 2005 than in 2004. Our portfolio sales in 2005
    were significantly higher than in 2004. The net impact of our
    purchases, liquidations and sales in 2005 was an approximately
    20% decline in the size of our net mortgage portfolio as of
    December 31, 2005, as compared to year-end 2004. Similar
    dynamics have existed through the first nine months of 2006,
    resulting in a net mortgage portfolio essentially unchanged from
    the end of 2005.

If market conditions change significantly, the limit on the size
    of our net mortgage portfolio could constrain our ability to
    capitalize fully on economically attractive opportunities to add
    mortgage assets to our portfolio. The portfolio limit may also
    affect the pace or size of sales from our portfolio,
    particularly when our balance of net mortgage assets approaches
    the portfolio limit. We regularly meet with OFHEO to discuss
    current market conditions and our mortgage and capital markets
    activities. In addition, we will contact OFHEO immediately if
    the market environment changes markedly and we determine that
    such changes could limit our ability to provide liquidity, meet
    our housing goals, or compete effectively in the secondary
    mortgage market while remaining within the portfolio limit
    prescribed by OFHEO. We anticipate submitting an updated
    business plan to OFHEO in early 2007 that will take into account
    our completed remediation efforts at that time. The business
    plan may include a request for modest growth in the mortgage
    portfolio.

124

Table of Contents   

Table 22 shows the balance of our mortgage portfolio, which
    reflects the net impact of our purchases, sales and
    liquidations, and the composition of our mortgage portfolio by
    product type as of December 31, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

Table
    22:  Mortgage Portfolio
    Composition (1)   

(1)   

Mortgage loans and mortgage-related
    securities are reported at unpaid principal balance.

(2)   

Mortgage loans include
    $152.7 billion, $162.5 billion, $135.8 billion
    and $113.4 billion of mortgage-related securities that were
    consolidated in the consolidated balance sheets as loans as of
    December 31, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

(3)   

Intermediate-term, fixed-rate
    consists of mortgage loans with contractual maturities at
    purchase equal to or less than 15 years.

(4)   

Includes unrealized gains and
    losses on mortgage-related securities and securities commitments
    classified as trading and available for sale.

125

Table of Contents   

The changing product mix of originations in our underlying
    market had a pronounced effect on the composition of mortgage
    assets purchased for our portfolio during 2004. Due to an
    increase in the percentage of adjustable-rate mortgage
    originations in 2004, a substantially higher proportion of our
    purchases in 2004 consisted of ARMs and floating-rate
    mortgage-related securities. These floating-rate securities and
    adjustable-rate mortgage products typically have lower initial
    interest yields than fixed-rate mortgage products. Accordingly,
    our purchase of a greater proportion of these lower initial
    yield mortgage products adversely affected our net interest
    yield during 2004.

Non-mortgage
    Investments   

Our Capital Markets group also purchases non-mortgage
    investments. Our non-mortgage investments consist primarily of
    high-quality securities that are readily marketable or have
    short-term maturities, such as commercial paper. As of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, we had approximately
    $55.1 billion and $67.1 billion, respectively, in
    liquid assets, net of any cash and cash equivalents pledged as
    collateral. Our investments in non-mortgage securities, which
    account for the majority of our liquid assets, totaled
    $43.9 billion and $46.8 billion as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Table 23 shows the amortized cost, maturity and weighted average
    yield of our investments in mortgage and non-mortgage securities.

Table
    23:  Amortized Cost, Maturity and Average Yield of
    Investments in Securities  

(1)   

Amortized cost includes unamortized
    premiums, discounts and other deferred price adjustments, as
    well as
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment write downs.

(2)   

Asset-backed securities, including
    mortgage-backed securities, are reported based on contractual
    maturities assuming no prepayments.

(3)   

Includes commitments related to
    mortgage securities that are accounted for as securities.

(4)   

Yields are determined by dividing
    interest income (including the amortization and accretion of
    premiums, discounts and other deferred price adjustments) by
    amortized cost balances as of year-end.

SUPPLEMENTAL
    NON-GAAP INFORMATION FAIR VALUE BALANCE
    SHEET  

Because our assets and liabilities consist predominately of
    financial instruments, we routinely use fair value measures to
    make investment decisions and to measure, monitor and manage our
    risk. The balance sheets

126

Table of Contents   

presented in our consolidated financial statements reflect some
    financial assets measured and reported at fair value while other
    financial assets, along with most of our financial liabilities,
    are measured and reported at historical cost.

Each of the non-GAAP supplemental consolidated fair value
    balance sheets presented below in Table 24 reflects all of our
    assets and liabilities at estimated fair value. Estimated fair
    value is the amount at which an asset or liability could be
    exchanged between willing parties, other than in a forced or
    liquidation sale. We believe that the non-GAAP supplemental
    consolidated fair value balance sheets are useful to investors
    because they provide consistency in the measurement and
    reporting of all of our assets and liabilities. Management
    principally uses this information to gain a clearer picture of
    changes in our assets and liabilities from period to period and
    to understand how the overall value of the company is changing
    from period to period.

Our consolidated fair value balance sheets include the following
    non-GAAP financial measures:

the fair value of our other assets and our total assets;

the fair value of our other liabilities and our total
    liabilities; and

the fair value of our net assets.

These items are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be
    comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other
    companies. The estimated fair value of our net assets (net of
    tax effect) presented in the non-GAAP supplemental consolidated
    fair value balance sheets is not intended as a substitute for
    our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance
    with GAAP. We believe, however, that the non-GAAP supplemental
    consolidated fair value balance sheets and the fair value of our
    net assets, when used in conjunction with our consolidated
    financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP, can serve
    as valuable incremental tools for investors to assess changes in
    our overall value over time relative to changes in market
    conditions.

Cautionary
    Language Relating to Supplemental Non-GAAP Financial
    Measures  

In reviewing our non-GAAP supplemental consolidated fair value
    balance sheets, there are a number of important factors and
    limitations to consider. The estimated fair value of our net
    assets is calculated as of a particular point in time based on
    our existing assets and liabilities and does not incorporate
    other factors that may have a significant impact on that value,
    most notably any value from future business activities in which
    we expect to engage. As a result, the estimated fair value of
    our net assets presented in our non-GAAP supplemental
    consolidated fair value balance sheets does not represent an
    estimate of our net realizable value, liquidation value or our
    market value as a whole. Amounts we ultimately realize from the
    disposition of assets or settlement of liabilities may vary
    significantly from the estimated fair values presented in our
    non-GAAP supplemental consolidated fair value balance sheets.
    Because temporary changes in market conditions can substantially
    affect the fair value of our net assets, we do not believe that
    short-term fluctuations in the fair value of our net assets
    attributable to
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS or changes in the fair value of our guaranty business are
    necessarily representative of the effectiveness of our
    investment strategy or the long-term underlying value of our
    business. We believe the long-term value of our business depends
    primarily on our ability to acquire new assets and funding at
    attractive prices and to effectively manage the risks of these
    assets and liabilities over time. However, we believe that
    focusing on the factors that affect near-term changes in the
    estimated fair value of our net assets helps us evaluate our
    long-term value and assess whether temporary market factors have
    caused our net assets to become overvalued or undervalued
    relative to the level of risk and expected long-term
    fundamentals of our business.

In addition, as discussed in  Critical Accounting Policies
    and Estimates Fair Value of Financial Instruments, 
    when quoted market prices or observable market data are not
    available, we rely on internally developed models that require
    management judgment and assumptions to estimate fair value.
    Differences in assumptions used in our models could result in
    significant changes in our estimates of fair value.

127

Table of Contents   

Table
    24:  Non-GAAP Supplemental Consolidated Fair
    Value Balance Sheets  

Explanation and Reconciliation
    of Non-GAAP Measures to GAAP Measures  

(1)   

Each of the amounts listed as a
     fair value adjustment  represents the difference
    between the carrying value reported in our GAAP consolidated
    balance sheets and our best judgment of the estimated fair value
    of the listed asset or liability.

(2)   

The estimated fair value of each of
    these financial instruments has been computed in accordance with
    the GAAP fair value guidelines prescribed by SFAS 107, as
    described in  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 19, Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments.  In Note 19, we also discuss the methodologies
    and assumptions we use in estimating the fair value of our
    financial instruments.

(3)   

Represents the estimated fair value
    produced by combining the estimated fair value of our guaranty
    assets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, with
    the estimated fair value of buy-ups. In our GAAP consolidated
    balance sheets, we report our guaranty assets as a separate line
    item and include all buy-ups associated with our guaranty assets
    in  Other assets.  As a result, the GAAP carrying
    value of our guaranty assets reflects only those arrangements
    entered

128

Table of Contents   

into subsequent to our adoption of
    FIN 45 on January 1, 2003. On a GAAP basis, our
    guaranty assets totaled $5.9 billion and $4.3 billion as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and the
    associated buy-ups totaled $692 million and
    $716 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively.

(4)  

In addition to the $7.1 billion and
    $6.2 billion of assets included in  Other assets  in
    the GAAP consolidated balance sheets as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003, respectively, the assets included in the
    estimated fair value of our non-GAAP  other assets 
    consist primarily of the assets presented on five line items in
    our GAAP consolidated balance sheets, consisting of advances to
    lenders, accrued interest receivable, partnership investments,
    acquired property, net, and deferred tax assets, which together
    totaled $24.9 billion in 2004 and $21.0 billion in
    2003, in both the GAAP consolidated balance sheets and the
    non-GAAP supplemental consolidated balance sheets for those
    periods. In addition, we subtract from our GAAP other assets the
    carrying value of the buy-ups associated with our guaranty
    obligation because we combine the guaranty asset with the
    associated buy-ups when we determine the fair value of the asset.

(5)  

The fair value of other assets and
    other liabilities generally approximates the carrying value of
    these assets for purposes of GAAP. We assume that other deferred
    assets and liabilities, consisting of prepaid expenses and
    deferred charges such as deferred debt issuance costs, have no
    fair value. We adjust the GAAP-basis deferred taxes for purposes
    of each of our non-GAAP supplemental consolidated fair value
    balance sheets to include estimated income taxes on the
    difference between our non-GAAP supplemental consolidated fair
    value balance sheets net assets, including deferred taxes from
    the GAAP consolidated balance sheets, and our GAAP consolidated
    balance sheets stockholders  equity. To the extent the
    adjusted deferred taxes are a net asset, this amount is included
    in the fair value of other assets. If the adjusted deferred
    taxes are a net liability, the amount is included in the fair
    value of other liabilities.

(6)  

Non-GAAP total assets represent the
    sum of the estimated fair value of (i) all financial
    instruments carried at fair value in our GAAP balance sheets,
    including all financial instruments that are not carried at fair
    value in our GAAP balance sheets but that are reported at fair
    value in accordance with SFAS 107 in  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements Note 19, Fair Value
    of Financial Instruments,  (ii) non-GAAP other assets,
    which include all items listed in footnote 4 that are
    presented as separate line items in our GAAP consolidated
    balance sheets rather than being included in our GAAP other
    assets and (iii) the estimated fair value of credit
    enhancements, which are not included in  Other assets 
    in the consolidated balance sheets.

(7)  

In addition to the $7.2 billion and
    $7.0 billion of liabilities included in  Other
    liabilities  in the GAAP consolidated balance sheets as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, the liabilities
    included in the estimated fair value of our non-GAAP  other
    liabilities  consist primarily of the liabilities presented
    on three line items on our GAAP consolidated balance sheets,
    consisting of accrued interest payable, reserve for guaranty
    losses and partnership liabilities, which together totaled
    $9.3 billion in 2004 and $8.4 billion in 2003, in both
    our GAAP consolidated balance sheets and our non-GAAP
    supplemental consolidated balance sheets for those periods.

(8)  

Non-GAAP total liabilities
    represent the sum of the estimated fair value of (i) all
    financial instruments that are carried at fair value in our GAAP
    balance sheets, including those financial instruments that are
    not carried at fair value in our GAAP balance sheets but that
    are reported at fair value in accordance with SFAS 107 in
     Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 19, Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments,  and (ii) non-GAAP other liabilities,
    which include all items listed in footnote 6 that are
    presented as separate line items in our GAAP consolidated
    balance sheets rather than being included in our GAAP other
    liabilities.

(9)  

Represents the estimated fair value
    of total assets less the estimated fair value of total
    liabilities, which reconciles to total stockholders  equity
    (GAAP).

Restated
    Fair Value of Net Assets as of December 31, 2003  

The restated fair value of our net assets (net of tax effect) as
    of December 31, 2003 was $28.4 billion, a reduction of
    $3.2 billion from the previously reported amount of
    $31.6 billion as a result of the errors described in
     Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 1, Restatement of Previously Issued
    Financial Statements. 

The $3.2 billion reduction is primarily attributable to the
    correction of errors in our fair value calculations.
    Approximately $1.9 billion of the $3.2 billion
    reduction is due to correction of errors associated with
    estimating the fair value of our guaranty assets and guaranty
    obligations, and the remaining approximately $1.3 billion
    is due to correction of errors associated with estimating the
    fair value of HTM securities, debt and derivatives. Of the
    $1.9 billion reduction related to guaranty assets and
    guaranty obligations, approximately $1.2 billion is due to
    an increase in the estimated fair value of our guaranty
    obligation, approximately $200 million is due to a decrease
    in the estimated fair value of our whole loans, and the
    remaining approximately $500 million is due to other
    changes made in re-estimating the fair value of the guaranty
    asset and the guaranty obligation. Of the $1.3 billion
    reduction related to HTM securities, debt and derivatives,
    approximately $800 million is due to a decrease in the
    estimated fair value of our mortgage assets, primarily mortgage
    revenue bonds and REMICs, approximately $300 million is due
    to an increase in the estimated fair

129

Table of Contents   

value of our debt and approximately $200 million is due to
    a decrease in the estimated fair value of our derivatives.

Change in
    Estimated Fair Value of Net Assets as of December 31,
    2004  

The estimated fair value of our net assets (net of tax effect)
    was $40.1 billion as of December 31, 2004, an increase
    of $11.7 billion, or 41%, from the restated net asset fair
    value of $28.4 billion as of December 31, 2003. Both
    our own activities and market conditions cause changes in the
    estimated fair value of our net assets (non-GAAP).

Of the total $11.7 billion increase, approximately
    $2.8 billion of the increase is attributable to our capital
    transactions, consisting primarily of $5.0 billion of gross
    proceeds we received from a preferred stock offering in 2004,
    partially offset by the payment of $2.2 billion of
    dividends to holders of our common and preferred stock. Net cash
    inflows generated by our Single-Family, HCD and Capital Markets
    businesses also contributed to the increase in fair value of our
    net assets (non-GAAP).

The remainder of the increase is largely attributable to changes
    in market conditions. Selected relevant market information is
    shown in Table 25. Since our goal is to minimize our risk
    associated with changes in interest rates, we expect that
    changes in implied volatility, mortgage OAS and debt OAS are the
    market conditions that will have the most significant impact on
    the fair value of our net assets. Implied volatility decreased
    considerably during 2004 compared to 2003. For example, the
    implied volatility of
     3-year 
    swaptions on
     10-year 
    underlying instruments declined by 280 basis points, from 22.9%
    as of December 31, 2003 to 20.1% as of December 31,
    2004. As indicated in Table 24, this decrease in implied
    volatility had the effect of increasing the value of our
    mortgage assets more than it increased our debt and derivatives
    funding of those assets. Changes in OAS had less of an impact on
    the fair value of our net assets over this period. According to
    the Lehman U.S. MBS Index, the OAS of mortgages, including those
    in the Fannie Mae MBS component of the Lehman U.S. MBS Index,
    decreased by 5.1 basis points to 22.5 basis points at
    December 31, 2004. A tighter, or lower, OAS on mortgages
    generally increases the fair value of our mortgage assets. The
    OAS on debt securities included in the Lehman U.S. Agency Debt
    Index decreased by 4.7 basis points to 32.2 basis points as of
    December 31, 2004. A tighter, or lower, debt OAS generally
    increases the fair value of our liabilities.

Table
    25:   Selected Market
    Information (1)   

(1)   

Information obtained from Lehman
    Live and Bloomberg.

(2)   

Implied volatility for an interest
    rate swaption with a 3-year option on a 10-year final maturity.

Effect of
    Market Conditions on Estimated Fair Value of Our Net
    Assets  

We expect periodic fluctuations in the estimated fair value of
    our net assets due to changes in market conditions, including
    changes in interest rates, changes in relative spreads between
    our mortgage assets and debt, and changes in implied volatility.
    Based on market conditions and the composition of our
    consolidated balance sheets in 2005 and 2006, we do not expect
    that we will experience the same level of increase, if any, in
    the estimated fair value of our net assets in 2005 and 2006 that
    we experienced in 2004. We discuss the sensitivity of the
    estimated fair value of our net assets in  Risk
    Management Interest Rate Risk Management and Other Market
    Risks. 

130

Table of Contents   

Key
    Elements of Changes in Estimated Fair Value of Net Assets
    (Non-GAAP)  

Although we have not provided specific attribution of fair value
    changes for 2004, we consider the factors described in the
    following paragraphs in evaluating changes in the estimated fair
    value of our net assets because they are the principal drivers
    of these changes.

Capital Transactions, Net.   Capital
    transactions include our issuances of common and preferred
    stock, our repurchases of stock and our payment of dividends.
    Cash we receive from the issuance of preferred and common stock
    results in an increase in the fair value of our net assets,
    while repurchases of stock and dividends we pay on our stock
    reduce the fair value of our net assets.

Estimated Net Interest Income from OAS.   OAS
    income represents the estimated net interest income generated
    during the current period that is attributable to the market
    spread between the yields on our mortgage-related assets and the
    yields on our debt during the period, calculated on an
    option-adjusted basis.

Guaranty Fees, Net.   Guaranty fees, net,
    represent the net cash receipts during the reported period
    related to our guaranty business, and are generally calculated
    as the difference between the contractual guaranty fees we
    receive during the period and the expenses we incur during the
    period that are associated with our guaranty business. Changes
    in guaranty fees, net, result from changes in portfolio size and
    composition, changes in the credit quality of the underlying
    assets and changes in the market spreads for similar instruments.

Fee and Other Income and Other Expenses,
    Net.   Fee and other income includes miscellaneous
    fees, such as resecuritization transaction fees and
    technology-related fees. Other expenses primarily include costs
    incurred during the period that are associated with the Capital
    Markets group.

Return on Risk Positions.   Our investment
    activities expose us to market risks, including duration and
    convexity risks, yield curve risk, OAS risk and volatility risk.
    The return on risk positions represents the estimated net
    increase or decrease in the fair value of our net assets
    resulting from net exposures related to the market risks we
    actively manage. We actively manage, or hedge, interest rate
    risk related to our mortgage investments in order to maintain
    our interest rate risk exposure within prescribed limits.
    However, we do not actively manage certain other market risks.
    Specifically, we do not actively manage the
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS or interest rate risk related to our guaranty business, as
    discussed below. Additional information about credit, market and
    operational risks and our strategies for managing these types of
    risks is included in  Risk Management. 

Mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS.   Funding mortgage investments with debt
    exposes us to
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS risk, which represents basis risk. Basis risk is the risk
    that interest rates in different market sectors will not move in
    the same direction or amount at the same time. We generally hold
    our mortgage investments to generate a spread over our debt on a
    long-term basis. The fair value of our assets and liabilities
    can be significantly affected by periodic changes in the net OAS
    between the mortgage and agency debt sectors. The fair value
    impact of changes in
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS for a given period represents an estimate of the net
    unrealized increase or decrease in the fair value of our net
    assets resulting from fluctuations during the reported period in
    the net OAS between our mortgage assets and our outstanding debt
    securities. When the
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS on a given mortgage asset increases, or widens, the fair
    value of the asset will typically decline relative to the debt.

We work to manage the OAS risk that exists at the time we
    purchase mortgage assets through our asset selection process. We
    use models to evaluate mortgage assets on the basis of
     yield-to-maturity, 
    option-adjusted yield spread, historical valuations and embedded
    options. Our models also take into account risk factors such as
    credit quality, price volatility and prepayment experience. We
    purchase mortgage assets that appear economically attractive to
    us in the context of current market conditions and that fall
    within our OAS targets. Although a widening of
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS during a period generally results in lower fair values
    during that period, it can provide us with better investment
    opportunities to purchase mortgage assets because a wider OAS is
    indicative of higher expected returns. We generally purchase
    mortgage assets when
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS is relatively wide and restrict our purchase activity or
    sell mortgage assets when
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS is relatively narrow. We do not, however, attempt to
    actively

131

Table of Contents   

manage or hedge the impact of changes in
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS after we purchase mortgage assets, other than through asset
    monitoring and disposition.

Change in the Guaranty Business Fair Value.   As
    described more fully in  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 19, Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments,  we calculate the estimated fair value of our
    existing guaranty business based on the difference between the
    estimated fair value of the guaranty fees we expect to receive
    and the estimated fair value of the guaranty obligations we
    assume. The fair value of both our guaranty assets and our
    guaranty obligations is highly sensitive to changes in interest
    rates and credit quality. Changes in interest rates can result
    in significant periodic fluctuations in the fair value of our
    net assets. For example, as interest rates decline, the expected
    prepayment rate on fixed-rate mortgages increases, which lowers
    the fair value of our existing guaranty business. We do not
    believe, however, that periodic changes in fair value are the
    best indication of the long-term value of our guaranty business
    because they do not take into account future guaranty business
    activity. Based on our historical experience, we expect that the
    guaranty fee income generated from future business activity will
    largely replace any guaranty fee income lost as a result of
    mortgage prepayments. Accordingly, we do not actively manage or
    hedge expected changes in the fair value of our guaranty
    business related to changes in interest rates. To assess the
    value of our underlying guaranty business, we focus primarily on
    changes in the fair value of our guaranty business resulting
    from business growth, changes in the credit quality of existing
    guaranty arrangements and changes in anticipated future credit
    performance.

RISK
    MANAGEMENT  

Overview  

Our businesses expose us to the following four major categories
    of risk:

Credit Risk.   Credit risk is the risk of
    financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or
    institutional counterparty to honor its contractual obligations
    to us and exists primarily in our mortgage credit book of
    business and derivatives portfolio.

Market Risk.   Market risk represents the
    exposure to potential changes in the market value of our net
    assets from changes in prevailing market conditions. A
    significant market risk we face and actively manage is interest
    rate risk the risk of changes in our long-term earnings or
    in the value of our net assets due to changes in interest rates.

Operational Risk.   Operational risk relates to
    the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal
    processes, people or systems, or from external events.

Liquidity Risk.   Liquidity risk is the risk to
    our earnings and capital arising from an inability to meet our
    cash obligations in a timely manner.

We also are subject to a number of other risks that could
    adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows, including legal and reputational
    risks that may arise due to a failure to comply with laws,
    regulations or ethical standards and codes of conduct applicable
    to our business activities and functions.

Effective management of risks is an integral part of our
    business and critical to our safety and soundness. In the
    following sections, we provide an overview of our corporate risk
    governance structure and risk management processes, which are
    intended to identify, measure, monitor and manage the principal
    risks we assume in conducting our business activities in
    accordance with defined policies and procedures. Following the
    overview, we provide additional information on how we manage
    each of our four major categories of risk. In
     Item 1A Risk Factors,  we identify other
    risk factors that may adversely affect our business.

Risk
    Governance Structure  

We made significant organizational changes in 2005 and 2006 to
    enhance our risk governance structure and strengthen our
    internal controls due to identified material weaknesses. During
    2005, we adopted an enhanced corporate risk framework to address
    weaknesses in our risk governance structure. This new framework
    is intended to ensure that people and processes are organized in
    a way that promotes a cross-functional approach to risk
    management and controls are in place to better manage our risks.
    Basic tenets of our corporate risk

132

Table of Contents   

framework include establishing corporate-wide policies for risk
    management, delegating to business units primary responsibility
    for the management of the
     day-to-day 
    risks inherent in the activities of the business unit, and
    monitoring aggregate risks and compliance with risk policies at
    a corporate level.

Our corporate risk framework is supported by a governance
    structure encompassing the Board of Directors, an independent
    corporate risk oversight organization, business units,
    management-level risk committees and Internal Audit. As we
    continue in our efforts to build out our risk oversight
    organization, our goal is to establish clear lines of authority,
    clarify roles and responsibilities, and enact policies and
    procedures designed to ensure that we have an independent risk
    oversight function and a well-disciplined risk management
    process with appropriate checks and balances throughout our
    company.

Risk
    Policy and Capital Committee of the Board of
    Directors   

The Board of Directors is responsible for approving our risk
    governance framework and providing capital and risk management
    oversight. The Board exercises its oversight of credit risk,
    market risk, operational risk and liquidity risk primarily
    through the Board s Risk Policy and Capital Committee. The
    responsibilities of the Risk Policy and Capital Committee
    include:

evaluating and, where appropriate, recommending for Board
    approval enterprise-wide risk management policies, metrics and
    limits consistent with our mission and our safety and soundness;

reviewing policies and procedures designed to: (i) define,
    measure, identify and report on credit, market, liquidity and
    operational risk; and (ii) establish and communicate risk
    management controls throughout the company;

overseeing compliance with all enterprise-wide risk management
    policies;

overseeing the Chief Risk Office; and

reviewing the sufficiency of personnel, systems and other risk
    management capabilities.

Chief
    Risk Office   

The Chief Risk Office is an independent risk oversight
    organization with responsibility for oversight of credit risk,
    market risk and operational risk. The Chief Risk Office is
    headed by a Chief Risk Officer who reports directly to the Chief
    Executive Officer and independently to the Risk Policy and
    Capital Committee of the Board of Directors. The Chief Risk
    Office and the position of Chief Risk Officer were established
    in 2005. The Chief Risk Office is responsible for formulating
    corporate risk policies and monitoring the company s
    aggregate risk profile. The Chief Risk Office works closely with
    our business units to ensure they have in place the structure
    and information systems necessary to adequately measure, report,
    monitor and control their key business risks, consistent with
    corporate standards. The Chief Risk Office also is responsible
    for validation of risk models and for developing and
    implementing an economic risk capital framework.

The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for establishing our
    overall risk governance structure and providing independent
    evaluation and oversight of our risk management activities. In
    addition to directing the Chief Risk Office, the Chief Risk
    Officer oversees our management-level corporate risk committees.
    The Chief Risk Officer reports on a regular basis to our Board
    of Directors regarding our corporate risk profile, including our
    aggregate risk exposure, the level of risk by type of risk,
    performance relative to risk tolerance limits and any
    significant risk management issues.

Risk
    Management Committees   

In 2006, we further enhanced our risk governance framework by
    creating two management-level committees: (i) the Corporate
    Risk Management Committee, which focuses on credit and market
    risk and is a successor to our Portfolio and Capital Committee;
    and (ii) the Operational Risk Committee, which focuses on
    operational risk. Each committee is responsible for, among other
    things:

monitoring aggregated risk exposure;

discussing emerging risk issues;

reviewing proposed risk limits;

approving the risk aspects of significant new business
    initiatives; and

133

Table of Contents   

approving and managing risk policies with corporate-wide or
    significant business unit implications.

The Management Executive Committee, which is chaired by the
    Chief Executive Officer and composed of principal executive
    officers of the company, has responsibility for reviewing and
    approving our enterprise-wide risk tolerance policy and our
    enterprise-wide risk framework, addressing issues referred to it
    by the Corporate Risk Management Committee and the Operational
    Risk Committee, addressing matters that involve multiple types
    of risks and addressing other significant business risks. Where
    appropriate, the Management Executive Committee brings
    transactions of an extraordinary nature and significant
    potential new business activities to the Risk Policy and Capital
    Committee of the Board of Directors for review and approval.

Business
    Units   

Business unit managers execute company-wide risk policies set by
    the Chief Risk Officer, develop risk management strategies for
    their specific businesses, and establish and implement risk
    management policies and practices within their businesses. Each
    business unit is responsible for identifying, measuring and
    managing key risks within its business. In addition, each
    business unit has business unit risk managers who are
    responsible for ensuring that there are clear delineations of
    responsibility for managing risk, adequate systems for measuring
    risk, appropriately structured limits on risk taking, effective
    internal controls and a comprehensive risk reporting process. As
    part of our risk governance structure, we intend to establish
    within each business unit risk committees that will be
    responsible for decisions relating to risk strategy, policies
    and controls.

Internal
    Audit   

Our Internal Audit group, under the direction of the Chief Audit
    Executive, provides an objective assessment of the design and
    execution of our internal control system, including our
    management systems, risk governance, and policies and
    procedures. The Chief Audit Executive reports directly and
    independently to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors,
    and audit personnel are compensated on objectives set for the
    group by the Audit Committee rather than corporate financial
    results or goals. Internal Audit activities are designed to
    provide reasonable assurance that resources are safeguarded;
    that significant financial, managerial and operating information
    is complete, accurate and reliable; and that employee actions
    comply with our policies and applicable laws and regulations.

Office
    of Compliance and Ethics   

Our Office of Compliance and Ethics, under the direction of the
    Chief Compliance Officer, is responsible for developing and
    carrying out corporate policies related to compliance, ethics
    and investigations. The Office of Compliance and Ethics and the
    position of Chief Compliance Officer were established in 2005.
    The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the Chief
    Executive Officer and independently to the Compliance Committee
    of the Board of Directors. The Chief Compliance Officer operates
    independently of management and may be removed only upon Board
    approval. The Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for
    overseeing our compliance activities; developing and promoting a
    code of ethical conduct; evaluating and investigating any
    allegations of misconduct; and overseeing and coordinating our
    OFHEO and HUD regulatory reporting and examinations. Our newly
    formed Compliance Coordination Committee, which is composed of
    senior officers of the company, is responsible for coordinating
    the legal and regulatory compliance risk governance functions
    with other control functions, such as Legal, Internal Audit and
    the Chief Risk Office.

Corporate
    Risk Tolerance Principles  

In September 2006, the Board of Directors adopted risk
    principles that govern our risk activities. These principles
    include taking risks in an informed and disciplined manner and
    ensuring that we are adequately compensated for the risks we
    take, consistent with our mission goals. Pursuant to our
    corporate risk tolerance principles, we will accept certain
    levels of
     period-to-period 
    volatility in our financial performance due to changes in market
    conditions and applicable accounting principles. Moreover, we
    will determine the appropriate accounting treatment of
    transactions as well as financial reporting, operations and
    systems capability before introducing new products or making
    significant revisions to existing products. The Chief

134

Table of Contents   

Risk Officer will report to the Board of Directors annually on
    management s adherence to these risk principles.

Credit
    Risk Management  

We assess, price and assume mortgage credit risk as a basic
    component of our business. We assume institutional counterparty
    credit risk in a variety of our business transactions, including
    transactions designed to mitigate mortgage credit risk and
    interest rate risk. The degree of credit risk to which we are
    exposed will vary based on many factors, including the risk
    profile of the borrower or counterparty, the contractual terms
    of the agreement, the amount of the transaction, repayment
    sources, the availability and quality of collateral and other
    factors relevant to current events, conditions and expectations.
    We evaluate these factors and actively manage, on an aggregate
    basis, the extent and nature of the credit risk we bear, with
    the objective of ensuring that we are adequately compensated for
    the credit risk we take, consistent with our mission goals.

Our Single-Family Credit Guaranty and HCD businesses are
    responsible for identifying, measuring, monitoring and managing
    credit risk subject to corporate risk policies and limits
    approved by the Chief Risk Office, which provides corporate
    oversight of the credit risk management process. The Corporate
    Risk Management Committee, which focuses on credit and market
    risk, meets at least monthly to review our aggregate credit risk
    profile and monitor our exposure relative to risk limits.

Our credit-related losses during the period 2002 to 2004 reflect
    the high credit quality of our mortgage credit book of business,
    resulting from the effect of a combination of several factors,
    including strong home price appreciation during the period, the
    benefits we receive from credit enhancements and other
    risk-sharing strategies, and our loss mitigation efforts. Our
    credit-related losses during this period remained at what we
    consider to be low levels, averaging approximately 0.01% of our
    mortgage credit book of business.

Mortgage
    Credit Risk Management   

Mortgage credit risk is the risk that a borrower will fail to
    make required mortgage payments. We are exposed to credit risk
    on our mortgage credit book of business because we either hold
    the mortgage assets or have issued a guaranty in connection with
    the creation of Fannie Mae MBS backed by mortgage assets. Our
    mortgage credit book of business consists of both on- and
    off-balance sheet arrangements, including single-family and
    multifamily mortgage loans held in our portfolio; Fannie Mae MBS
    and non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related securities held in our
    portfolio; Fannie Mae MBS held by third-party investors; and
    credit enhancements that we provide on mortgage assets. We
    provide additional information regarding our off-balance sheet
    arrangements in  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  below.

Factors affecting credit risk on loans in our single-family
    mortgage credit book of business include the borrower s
    financial strength and credit profile; the type of mortgage; the
    characteristics of the property securing the mortgage; and
    economic conditions, such as changes in home prices. Factors
    that affect credit risk on a multifamily loan include the
    structure of the financing; the type and location of the
    property; the condition and value of the property; the financial
    strength of the borrower and lender; market and sub-market
    trends and growth; and the current and anticipated cash flows
    from the property. These and other factors affect both the
    amount of expected credit loss on a given loan and the
    sensitivity of that loss to changes in the economic environment.

Table 26 displays the composition of our mortgage credit book of
    business as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. As
    indicated in Table 26, our single-family mortgage credit
    book of business accounted for approximately 95% of our
    entire mortgage credit book of business as of December 31,
    2004, 2003 and 2002.

135

Table of Contents   

Table
    26:  Composition of Mortgage Credit Book of
    Business  

136

Table of Contents   

(1)   

Refers to mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities that are not guaranteed or insured
    by the U.S. government or any of its agencies.

(2)   

Refers to mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities guaranteed or insured by the U.S.
    government or one of its agencies.

(3)   

Mortgage portfolio data is reported
    based on unpaid principal balance.

(4)   

Mortgage loan data includes
    mortgage-related securities that were consolidated and reported
    in our consolidated balance sheets as loans of
    $152.7 billion, $162.5 billion and $135.8 billion
    as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

(5)   

Includes mortgage-related
    securities issued by Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae.

(6)   

Includes mortgage-related
    securities issued by entities other than Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac
    or Ginnie Mae.

(7)   

Includes Fannie Mae MBS held by
    third-party investors. The principal balance of resecuritized
    Fannie Mae MBS is included only once.

(8)   

Includes additional single-family
    and multifamily credit enhancements that we provide not
    otherwise reflected in the table.

Our strategy in managing mortgage credit risk consists of three
    primary components: (1) acquisition policy and standards;
    (2) portfolio diversification and monitoring; and
    (3) credit loss management. We use various metrics to
    evaluate credit performance in our mortgage credit book of
    business. We estimate incurred credit losses inherent in our
    mortgage credit book of business as of each balance sheet date
    and maintain a combined balance of allowance for loan losses and
    reserve for guaranty losses at a level we believe reflects these
    losses.

Acquisition
    Policy and Standards  

Single-Family  

Our Single-Family business is responsible for pricing and
    managing credit risk relating to the portion of our
    single-family mortgage credit book of business consisting of
    whole single-family mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS backed by
    single-family mortgage loans (whether held in our portfolio or
    held by third parties). Accordingly, unless otherwise noted, the
    credit statistics on our conventional single-family mortgage
    credit book provided in this report relate only to this portion
    of our conventional single-family mortgage credit book managed
    by our Single-Family business, for which we have more detailed
    loan-level information, which constituted approximately 92%, 95%
    and 95% of our total conventional single-family mortgage credit
    book of business as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively.

137

Table of Contents   

The remaining portion of our conventional single-family mortgage
    credit book of business consists of non-Fannie Mae
    mortgage-related securities backed by single-family mortgage
    loans and credit enhancements that we provide on single-family
    mortgage assets. Our Capital Markets business is responsible for
    pricing and managing credit risk relating to that remaining
    portion of our conventional single-family mortgage credit book.
    These mortgage exposures generally consist of mortgage-related
    assets where we may not have access to detailed loan level data
    and may not manage the credit performance of individual loans.
    The substantial majority of the non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related
    securities in our portfolio benefit from substantial credit
    enhancement, such as a guaranty from an entity such as Ginnie
    Mae or Freddie Mac, an insurance policy, structured
    subordination and similar sources of credit protection.
    Non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related securities held in our portfolio
    include Freddie Mac securities, Ginnie Mae securities,
    private-label mortgage-related securities, Fannie Mae MBS backed
    by private-label mortgage-related securities, and
    housing-related municipal revenue bonds. Over 90% of non-Fannie
    Mae mortgage-related securities held in our portfolio as of
    September 30, 2006 were rated AAA/Aaa by Standard and
    Poor s and Moody s.

We have established underwriting guidelines for these loans that
    are intended to provide a comprehensive analysis of borrowers
    and mortgage loans based upon known risk characteristics. We
    also have policies and various quality assurance efforts to
    review a sample of loans to measure compliance with our
    underwriting and eligibility criteria. We assess the
    characteristics and quality of a lender s loans and
    processes through a post-purchase loan review program,
     on-site 
    reviews of lender operations and regular comparisons of actual
    loan performance to expected performance.

Lenders generally represent and warrant compliance with our
    asset acquisition requirements when they sell mortgage loans to
    us or deliver mortgage loans in exchange for Fannie Mae MBS. We
    may require the lender to repurchase a loan or we may seek
    another remedy if we identify any deficiencies. We have
    developed a proprietary automated underwriting system, Desktop
    Underwriter   ,
    which measures default risk by assessing the primary risk
    factors of a mortgage, including the
     loan-to-value 
    ratio, the borrower s credit profile, the type of mortgage,
    the loan purpose, and other mortgage and borrower
    characteristics. Subject to our review and approval, we also
    purchase and securitize mortgage loans that have been
    underwritten using other automated underwriting systems, as well
    as mortgage loans underwritten to agreed-upon standards that
    differ from our standard underwriting criteria.

The use of credit enhancements is an important part of our
    single-family acquisition policy and standards, although it also
    exposes us to institutional counterparty risk. Based on our
    current acquisition policy and standards, we may accept loans
    originated with
     loan-to-value 
    ratios of up to 100%; however, from time to time, we may make an
    exception to these guidelines and acquire loans with a
     loan-to-value 
    ratio greater than 100%. Our charter requires that conventional
    single-family mortgage loans that we purchase or that back
    Fannie Mae MBS with
     loan-to-value 
    ratios above 80% at acquisition be covered by one or more of the
    following:

primary mortgage insurance;

a seller s agreement to repurchase or replace any mortgage
    loan in default (for such period and under such circumstances as
    we may require); or

retention by the seller of at least a 10% participation interest
    in the mortgage loans.

Primary mortgage insurance is the most common type of credit
    enhancement in our mortgage credit book of business and is
    typically provided on a loan-level basis. Primary mortgage
    insurance transfers varying portions of the credit risk
    associated with a mortgage loan to a third-party insurer. The
    amount of insurance we obtain on any mortgage loan depends on
    our requirements, which depend on our assessment of risk.

In addition to the credit enhancement required by our charter,
    we require or obtain supplemental credit enhancement for some
    mortgage loans, typically those with higher credit risk. Our use
    of discretionary credit enhancements depends on our view of the
    inherent credit risk, the price of the credit enhancement, and
    our risk versus return objective.

138

Table of Contents   

The percentage of our conventional single-family mortgage credit
    book of business with credit enhancement was 19%, 21% and 27% as
    of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The
    percentage of our conventional single-family mortgage credit
    book of business with credit enhancement has not changed
    significantly since the end of 2004.

Housing
    and Community Development  

Our HCD business is responsible for managing the credit risk on
    whole multifamily mortgage loans we purchase and on Fannie Mae
    MBS backed by multifamily loans (whether held in our portfolio
    or held by third parties). HCD also makes equity investments in
    LIHTC limited partnerships that own an interest in rental
    housing that the partnerships have developed or rehabilitated.
    On a much smaller scale, our HCD business also makes investments
    in other rental or for-sale housing developments and provides
    loans and credit support to public entities and local banks to
    support affordable housing and community development. We have
    established credit and underwriting guidelines for most of these
    transactions. While the underwriting of single-family loans
    primarily focuses on an evaluation of the borrower s
    ability to repay the loan, the underwriting of multifamily loans
    focuses primarily on an evaluation of expected cash flows from
    the property for repayment. Our multifamily guidelines provide a
    comprehensive analysis of the local market, the borrower and its
    investment in the property, the property s historical and
    projected financial performance, the property s physical
    condition and third-party reports, including appraisals and
    engineering and environmental reports. For multifamily equity
    investments, we also evaluate the strength of our investment
    sponsors and third-party asset managers.

Multifamily loans we purchase or that back Fannie Mae MBS are
    either underwritten by a Fannie Mae-approved lender or subject
    to our underwriting review prior to closing. Many of our
    agreements delegate the underwriting decisions to the lender,
    principally through our Delegated Underwriting and Servicing, or
    DUS TM ,
    program. Approximately 89% of our multifamily mortgage credit
    book of business as of December 31, 2004 consisted of loans
    delivered by DUS lenders, compared with approximately 90% as of
    December 31, 2003. Lenders represent and warrant compliance
    with our underwriting requirements when they sell us mortgage
    loans, when they request securitization of their loans into
    Fannie Mae MBS or when they request that we provide credit
    enhancement in connection with an affordable housing bond
    transaction. In addition, we use proprietary models and
    analytical tools to price and measure credit risk at
    acquisition. After closing, we conduct a post-purchase review of
    certain loans based on the product type or risk profile of the
    loan, the lender s historical underwriting practices, the
    market and submarket conditions. If non-compliance issues are
    revealed during the review process, we may take a variety of
    actions, including increasing the lender credit loss sharing or
    requiring a lender to repurchase a loan, depending on the
    severity of the issues identified.

The use of credit enhancements is also an important part of our
    multifamily acquisition policy and standards. We use a variety
    of credit enhancement vehicles including lender risk sharing,
    lender repurchase agreements, pool insurance, subordinated
    participations in mortgage loans or structured pools, cash and
    letter of credit collateral agreements, and
    cross-collateralization/cross-default provisions. The most
    prevalent form of credit enhancement is lender risk sharing.
    Lenders in the DUS program typically share in loan-level credit
    losses in one of two ways. Generally, they either bear losses up
    to the first 5% of unpaid principal balance of the loan and
    share in remaining losses up to a prescribed limit, or they
    agree to share with us up to one-third of the credit losses on
    an equal basis. The percentage of our multifamily credit book of
    business with credit enhancement was 95%, 95% and 92% as of
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Portfolio
    Diversification and Monitoring  

Single-Family  

Our single-family mortgage credit book of business is
    diversified based on several factors that influence credit
    quality and performance and help manage our credit risk. We
    continually review the credit quality of our single-family
    mortgage credit book of business with a focus on a variety of
    mortgage loan risk factors that include
     loan-to-value 
    ratios, loan product type, property type, occupancy type, credit
    score, loan purpose, property location and age of loan. Table 27
    presents our conventional single-family mortgage credit book of
    business as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, based on
    the key risk characteristics that we monitor

139

Table of Contents   

closely to assess the sensitivity of our credit losses to
    economic changes. Table 28 presents our conventional
    single-family business volumes (which refers to both
    conventional single-family mortgage loans we purchase for our
    mortgage portfolio and conventional single-family mortgage loans
    we securitize into Fannie Mae MBS) for 2004, 2003 and 2002 based
    on these risk characteristics. We typically obtain the data for
    these statistics from the sellers or servicers of the mortgage
    loans. We receive representations and warranties as to the
    accuracy of the information from those providing it. Except for
    quality assurance efforts, we do not independently verify the
    reported information. As noted above, we generally collect
    loan-level statistics only on conventional single-family
    mortgage loans held in our portfolio and backing Fannie MBS
    (whether held in our portfolio or held by third parties).

Table
    27:  Risk Characteristics of Conventional
    Single-Family Mortgage Credit Book  

140

Table of Contents   

141

Table of Contents   

(1)   

Percentages calculated based on
    unpaid principal balance of loans as of the end of each period.

(2)   

The methodology used to estimate
    the
     mark-to-market 
     loan-to-value 
    ratio was implemented in 2004.

(3)   

Long-term fixed-rate consists of
    mortgage loans with contractual maturities greater than
    15 years. Intermediate-term fixed-rate consists of mortgage
    loans with contractual maturities equal to or less than
    15 years.

(4)   

Midwest includes IL, IN, IA, MI,
    MN, NE, ND, OH, SD and WI. Northeast includes CT, DE, ME, MA,
    NH, NJ, NY, PA, PR, RI, VT and VI. Southeast includes AL, DC,
    FL, GA, KY, MD, MS, NC, SC, TN, VA and WV. Southwest includes
    AZ, AR, CO, KS, LA, MO, NM, OK, TX and UT. West includes AK, CA,
    GU, HI, ID, MT, NV, OR, WA and WY.

Table
    28:  Risk Characteristics of Conventional
    Single-Family Mortgage Business Volumes  

142

Table of Contents   

(1)   

Percentages calculated based on
    unpaid principal balance of loans at time of acquisition.

143

Table of Contents   

(2)   

Long-term fixed-rate consists of
    mortgage loans with contractual maturities greater than
    15 years. Intermediate-term fixed-rate consists of mortgage
    loans with contractual maturities equal to or less than
    15 years.

(3)   

See footnote 4 to Table 27 for
    states included in each geographic region.

The key elements of the above risk characteristics are as
    follows:

Loan-to-value 
    ( LTV ) ratio.   The LTV ratio is the
    ratio, at any point in time, of the unpaid principal balance of
    a mortgage loan to the value of the property that serves as
    collateral for the loan (expressed as a percentage). LTV ratio
    is a strong predictor of credit performance. In most cases, the
    original LTV is based on the appraised value reported to us at
    the time of acquisition of the loan. The aggregate current or
    estimated
     mark-to-market 
    LTV is based on an internal valuation model we use to estimate
    periodic changes in home values. Assuming all other factors are
    equal, the likelihood of default and the gross severity of a
    loss in the event of default are typically lower as the LTV
    ratio decreases.

Product type.   Product type is defined by the
    nature of the interest rate applicable to the mortgage (fixed
    for the duration of the loan or adjustable subject to
    contractual terms) and by the maturity of the loan. We generally
    divide our Single-Family business into three primary categories:
    long-term, fixed-rate mortgages with original terms of greater
    than 15 years; intermediate-term, fixed-rate mortgages with
    original terms of 15 years or less; and ARMs of any term.
    During 2004 and 2005, there was a proliferation of alternative
    product types, including
     negative-amortizing 
    loans and interest-only loans.
     Negative-amortizing 
    loans allow the borrower to make monthly payments that are less
    than the interest actually accrued for the period. The unpaid
    interest is added to the principal balance of the loan, which
    increases the outstanding loan balance.
     Negative-amortizing 
    loans are typically adjustable-rate mortgage loans.
    Interest-only loans allow the borrower to pay only the monthly
    interest due, and none of the principal, for a fixed term. After
    the end of that term, usually five to ten years, the borrower
    can choose to refinance, pay the principal balance in a lump
    sum, or begin paying the monthly scheduled principal due on the
    loan, which results in a higher monthly payment at that time.
    Interest-only loans can be adjustable-rate or fixed-rate
    mortgage loans. While
     negative-amortizing 
    and interest-only loans have been offered by lenders for some
    time, we began separately reporting and more closely monitoring
    them as their prevalence increased in 2004 and 2005.

Certain residential loan product types have features that may
    result in increased credit risk when compared to residential
    loans without those features. In general,
     15-year 
    fixed-rate mortgages exhibit the lowest default rate among the
    types of mortgage loans we securitize and purchase, due to the
    accelerated rate of principal amortization on these mortgages
    and the credit profiles of borrowers who use them. The next
    lowest rate of default is associated with
     30-year 
    fixed-rate mortgages. Balloon/reset mortgages and ARMs typically
    default at a higher rate than fixed-rate mortgages, although
    default rates for different types of ARMs may vary. While ARMs
    are typically originated with interest rates that are initially
    lower than those available for fixed-rate mortgages, the
    interest rates on ARMs change over time based on changes in an
    index or reference interest rate. As a result, the
    borrower s payments may rise or fall, within limits, as
    interest rates change. As payment amounts increase, the risk of
    default also increases. In the low interest rate environment
    experienced during 2005, 2004 and 2003, this industry trend was
    reversed with ARMs exhibiting lower default rates than
    fixed-rate mortgages. We expect loans that permit a borrower to
    defer the payment of principal or interest, such as
    negative-amortizing and interest-only loans, to default more
    often than traditional mortgage loans. We consider the risk of
    default in determining our guaranty fee and purchase price.

Number of units.   We classify mortgages secured
    by housing with four or fewer living units as single- family.
    Mortgages on one-unit properties tend to have lower credit risk
    than mortgages on multiple-unit properties, such as duplexes,
    all other factors held equal. Over 95% of our single-family
    mortgage credit book of business consists of loans secured by
    one-unit properties.

Property type.   We evaluate the underlying type
    of property that secures a mortgage loan. Condominiums are
    generally considered to have higher credit risk than
    single-family detached properties. Condominiums are often more
    difficult to resell than single-family detached properties, and
    they historically have exhibited greater volatility in home
    price trends.

144

Table of Contents   

Occupancy type.   Borrowers may purchase a home
    as a primary residence, a second or vacation home, or an
    investment property. Assuming all other factors are equal,
    mortgages on properties occupied by the borrower as a primary or
    secondary residence tend to have lower credit risk than
    mortgages on investment properties.

Credit score.   Credit score is a measure often
    used by the financial services industry, including our company,
    to assess borrower credit quality. Credit scores are generated
    by credit repositories and calculated based on proprietary
    statistical models that evaluate many types of information on a
    borrower s credit report and predict the likelihood that a
    borrower will repay future obligations as expected.
    FICO   
    scores, developed by Fair Isaac Corporation, are commonly used
    credit scores. FICO scores, as reported by the credit
    repositories, may range from a low of 300 to a high of 850.
    Based on Fair Isaac Corporation statistical information, a
    higher FICO score typically indicates a lesser degree of credit
    risk.

We obtain borrower credit scores on the majority of
    single-family mortgage loans that we purchase or that back
    Fannie Mae MBS. We believe the average credit score within our
    single-family mortgage credit book of business is a strong
    indicator of default risk.

Loan purpose.   Loan purpose indicates how the
    borrower intends to use the funds from a mortgage loan. We
    designate the loan purpose as purchase, cash-out refinance or
    other refinance. The funds in a purchase transaction are used to
    acquire a property. In addition to paying off an existing first
    mortgage lien, the funds in a cash-out refinance transaction
    also may be used for other purposes, including paying off
    subordinate mortgage liens and providing unrestricted cash
    proceeds to the borrower. Cash-out refinancings have a higher
    risk of default. All other refinance transactions are defined as
    other re-financings. We also may disclose certain loans that
    were modified prior to our acquisition as refinanced loans.

Geographic concentration.   Local economic
    conditions affect borrowers  ability to repay loans and the
    value of the collateral underlying a loan, if all other factors
    are equal. We analyze geographic exposure at a variety of levels
    of geographic aggregation, including at the regional level.
    Geographic diversification reduces mortgage credit risk.

Loan age.   We monitor year of origination and
    loan age, which is defined as the number of years since
    origination. Statistically, the peak ages for default are
    currently from two to six years after origination.

The credit quality of the mortgage loans in our conventional
    single-family mortgage credit book of business remained high as
    of December 31, 2004 and 2003, as evidenced by weighted
    average
     loan-to-value 
    ratios and weighted average credit scores. The weighted average
    original
     loan-to-value 
    ratio was 70% as of December 31, 2004 and 2003. The
    weighted average estimated
     mark-to-market 
     loan-to-value 
    ratio for our conventional single-family mortgage credit book of
    business decreased to 57% as of December 31, 2004 from 60%
    as of December 31, 2003. The weighted average credit score
    was 719 and 717 as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively. As of September 30, 2006, the weighted
    average original
     loan-to-value 
    ratio was an estimated 70% and the weighted average estimated
     mark-to-market 
     loan-to-value 
    ratio was an estimated 54%. The weighted average credit score
    was 721 as of September 30, 2006.

The most notable change in the overall risk profile of our
    single-family mortgage credit book of business since the end of
    2004 has been in product types. As a result of the rise in home
    prices over the past several years, there has been a shift in
    the primary mortgage market to mortgage loans with features that
    make it easier for borrowers to qualify for a mortgage loan and
    that offer lower initial monthly payments by allowing the
    borrower to defer repayment of principal or interest. These
    products include interest-only mortgage loans that are available
    with both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate terms and ARMs that
    have the potential for negative amortization.

Interest-only loans, which represented approximately 5% of our
    conventional single-family business volumes (which refers to
    both conventional single-family mortgage loans purchased for our
    mortgage portfolio and conventional single-family mortgage loans
    securitized into Fannie Mae MBS) in 2004, increased to
    approximately 10% in 2005 and approximately 15% for the first
    nine months of 2006. Most of the
     interest-only 
    products we acquired during 2004 and 2005 had adjustable-rate
    terms. Approximately 38% of the interest-only products we
    acquired during the first nine months of 2006 had fixed-rate
    terms.

145

Table of Contents   

Negative-amortizing 
    ARMs represented approximately 2% of our conventional
    single-family business volumes in 2004 and approximately 3% in
    2005 and approximately 4% for the first nine months of 2006. As
    a result of the shift in the product profile of new business in
    recent years, interest-only loans and
     negative-amortizing 
    ARMs represented approximately 6% and 2%, respectively, of our
    conventional single-family mortgage credit book of business as
    of September 30, 2006, compared with approximately 2% and
    1%, respectively, as of December 31, 2004.

In addition, there has been an increasing industry trend towards
    streamlining the mortgage loan underwriting process by reducing
    the documentation requirements for borrowers. Reduced
    documentation loans in some cases present higher credit risk
    than loans underwritten with full standard documentation.

In September 2006, the federal financial regulatory agencies
    (The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the
    Office of Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift
    Supervision, the National Credit Union Administration, and the
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) jointly issued
     Interagency Guidance on Nontraditional Mortgage Product
    Risks  to address risks posed by interest-only loans and
    other mortgage products that allow borrowers to defer repayment
    of principal or interest. The guidance also addresses the
    layering of risks that results from combining these product
    types with other features that may compound risk, such as
    relying on reduced documentation to evaluate a borrower s
    creditworthiness. The guidance directs federally regulated
    financial institutions (which includes the bulk of our lender
    customers) originating these loans to maintain underwriting
    standards that are consistent with prudent lending practices,
    including analysis of a borrower s capacity to repay the
    full amount of credit that may be extended and to provide
    borrowers with clear and balanced information about the relative
    benefits and risks of these products sufficiently early in the
    process to enable them to make informed decisions. It is too
    early to determine what impact, if any, the new guidelines will
    have on our business.

In addition to the shift in the product profile of new business
    described above, we have made, and continue to make, significant
    adjustments to our mortgage loan sourcing and purchase
    strategies in an effort to meet HUD s increased housing
    goals and new subgoals. These strategies include entering into
    some purchase and securitization transactions with lower
    expected economic returns than our typical transactions. We have
    also relaxed some of our underwriting criteria to obtain
    goals-qualifying mortgage loans and increased our investments in
    higher-risk mortgage loan products that are more likely to serve
    the borrowers targeted by HUD s goals and subgoals, which
    could increase our credit losses. See
     Item 1 Business Our Charter and Regulation
    of Our Activities Regulation and Oversight of Our
    Activities HUD Regulation Housing Goals  for a
    description of our housing goals.

We use analytical tools to measure credit risk exposures, assess
    performance of our mortgage credit book of business, and
    evaluate risk management alternatives. We continually refine our
    methods of measuring credit risk, setting risk and return
    targets, and transferring risk to third parties. We use our
    analytical models to establish forecasts and expectations for
    the credit performance of loans in our mortgage credit book and
    compare actual performance to those expectations. Comparison of
    actual versus projected performance and changes in other key
    trends are monitored to identify changes in risk or return
    profiles and to provide the basis for revising policies,
    standards, guidelines, credit enhancements or guaranty fees for
    future business.

Housing
    and Community Development  

Diversification within our multifamily mortgage credit book of
    business and LIHTC equity investments business by geographic
    concentration,
     term-to-maturity, 
    interest rate structure, borrower concentration and credit
    enhancement arrangements is an important factor that influences
    credit quality and performance and helps reduce our credit risk.

We monitor the performance and risk concentrations of
    multifamily loans and properties on an ongoing basis throughout
    the life cycle of the investment at the loan, property and
    portfolio level. We closely track the physical condition and
    financial performance of the property, the historical
    performance of the loan or property, the relevant local market
    economic conditions that may signal changing risk or return
    profiles and other risk factors. For example, we closely monitor
    rental payment trends and vacancy levels in local markets to
    identify loans meriting closer attention or loss mitigation
    actions. We also evaluate the servicers 

146

Table of Contents   

submissions and may require the servicer to take certain actions
    to mitigate the likelihood of delinquency or default. For our
    investments in multifamily loans and properties, the primary
    asset management responsibilities are performed by our DUS
    lenders. For our LIHTC investments, the primary asset management
    responsibilities are performed by our LIHTC syndicator partners
    or third parties. These partners provide us with periodic
    construction status updates and property operating information.
    We compare the information received to our construction
    schedules, tax delivery schedules and industry standards to
    measure and grade project performance.

We use proprietary models and analytical tools to periodically
    re-evaluate our multifamily mortgage credit book of business,
    establish forecasts of credit performance and estimate future
    potential credit losses. Information derived from our analyses
    is used to identify changes in risks and provide the basis for
    revising policies, standards, pricing and credit enhancements.

We also have data on and manage multifamily mortgage credit risk
    at the loan level. We have data at the loan level on
    approximately 90% of our multifamily mortgage credit book as of
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Unless otherwise noted,
    the credit statistics provided for our multifamily mortgage
    credit book generally include only mortgage loans in our
    portfolio, outstanding Fannie Mae MBS (excluding Fannie Mae MBS
    backed by non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related securities) and credit
    enhancements that we provide, where we have more detailed
    loan-level information.

Credit
    Loss Management  

Single-Family  

We manage problem loans to mitigate credit losses. If a mortgage
    loan does not perform, we work closely in partnership with the
    servicers of our loans to minimize the frequency of foreclosure
    as well as the severity of loss. We have developed detailed
    servicing guidelines and work closely with the loan servicers to
    ensure that they take appropriate loss mitigation steps on a
    timely basis. Our loan management strategy begins with payment
    collection and work-out guidelines designed to minimize the
    number of borrowers who fall behind on their obligations and to
    help borrowers who are delinquent from falling further behind on
    their payments. We seek alternative resolutions of problem loans
    to reduce the legal and management expenses associated with
    foreclosing on a home.

In our experience, early intervention is critical to controlling
    credit losses. We offer Risk
    Profiler  sm  ,
    an internally-developed default prediction model, to our
    single-family servicers to monitor the performance and risk of
    each loan and identify those loans that are most likely to
    default and require the most attention. Risk Profiler uses
    credit risk indicators such as mortgage payment records, updated
    borrower credit data, current property values and mortgage
    product characteristics to evaluate the risk of each loan. Most
    of the lenders that service loans we buy or that back Fannie Mae
    MBS use Risk Profiler or a similar default prediction model.

We require our single-family servicers to pursue various
    resolutions of problem loans as an alternative to foreclosure,
    including:

repayment plans in which borrowers repay past due principal and
    interest over a reasonable period of time through a temporarily
    higher monthly payment;

loan modifications in which past due interest amounts, net of
    any borrower contributions, are added to the loan principal
    amount and recovered over the remaining life of the loan, and
    other loan adjustments;

accepting deeds in lieu of foreclosure whereby the borrower
    signs over title to the property without the added expense of a
    foreclosure proceeding; and

preforeclosure sales in which the borrower, working with the
    servicer, sells the home and pays off all or part of the
    outstanding loan, accrued interest and other expenses from the
    sale proceeds.

The objective of the repayment plan and loan modification
    strategies is to allow borrowers who have experienced temporary
    financial distress to remain in their homes and to avoid the
    losses associated with foreclosure. The objective of the deed in
    lieu and preforeclosure sale strategies is to minimize the extra
    costs associated with a traditional foreclosure by obtaining the
    borrower s cooperation in resolving the default. We

147

Table of Contents   

use analytical models and work rules to determine which
    alternative resolution, if any, may be appropriate for each
    problem loan.

We track the ultimate performance of alternative resolutions in
    absolute terms and in relation to estimated losses in the event
    of a traditional single-family loan foreclosure. We adjust our
    loss mitigation policies as appropriate to be consistent with
    our risk management objectives. In the case of repayment plans
    and loan modifications, we focus in particular on the
    performance of the loans subsequent to our intervention. Of the
    conventional loans that recover through modifications, long-term
    forbearances and repayment plans, our performance experience
    after 36 months following the inception of all such plans,
    based on the period 1998 to 2002, has been that approximately
    65% of these loans remain current or have been paid in full.
    Approximately 11% have terminated through foreclosure. The
    remaining loans once again reached a delinquent status.

In those cases when a foreclosure avoidance effort is not
    successful, we foreclose and acquire the property. Our property
    management and sale operation consists of several strategies
    designed to shorten our holding time, minimize the impact on the
    neighborhood, maximize our recovery and mitigate credit losses.
    These strategies include prompt assessment of the property
    condition, partnering with qualified local real estate brokers
    and refurbishing the property to appeal to the broadest market
    of homebuyers, particularly buyers who plan to live in the home.

The table below presents statistics on the resolution of
    conventional single-family problem loans for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

Table
    29:  Statistics on Conventional Single-Family Problem
    Loan Workouts  

(1)   

Modifications include troubled debt
    restructurings, which result in concessions to borrowers, and
    other modifications to the contractual terms of the loan that do
    not result in concessions to the borrower.

(2)   

For each of the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, represents approximately
    0.2% of the total number of loans in our conventional
    single-family mortgage credit book.

Housing
    and Community Development  

When a multifamily loan does not perform, we work closely with
    our loan servicers to minimize the severity of loss by taking
    appropriate loss mitigation steps. We permit our multifamily
    servicers to pursue various options as an alternative to
    foreclosure, including modifying the terms of the loan, selling
    the loan, and preforeclosure sales. The resolution strategy
    depends in part on the borrower s level of cooperation, the
    performance of the market or submarket, the value of the
    property, the condition of the property, any remaining equity in
    the property and the borrower s ability to infuse
    additional equity into the property. The unpaid principal
    balance of multifamily loan modifications totaled
    $224 million, $196 million and $184 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively, which represented 0.18%, 0.16% and 0.19% of our
    multifamily mortgage credit book of business as of the end of
    each respective period.

When a non-guaranteed LIHTC investment does not perform, we work
    closely with our syndicator partner. The resolution strategy
    depends on:

the local general partner s ability to meet obligations;

the value of the property;

148

Table of Contents   

the ability to restructure the debt;

the financial and workout capacity of the syndicator
    partner; and

the strength of the market or submarket.

If a guaranteed LIHTC investment does not perform, the guarantor
    remits funds to us in an amount that provides us with the
    contractual underwritten return. Our risk in this situation is
    that the counterparty will not perform. Refer to
     Institutional Counterparty Credit Risk Management 
    below for a discussion of how we manage the credit risk
    associated with our counterparties.

Mortgage
    Credit Book Performance  

Key metrics used to measure credit risk in our mortgage credit
    book of business and evaluate credit performance include the
    serious delinquency rate, nonperforming loans and credit losses.

Serious
    Delinquency  

The serious delinquency rate is an indicator of potential future
    foreclosures, although most loans that become seriously
    delinquent do not result in foreclosure. The rate at which new
    loans become seriously delinquent and the rate at which existing
    seriously delinquent loans are resolved significantly affect the
    level of future credit losses. Home price appreciation decreases
    the risk of default. A borrower with enough equity in a home can
    sell the home or draw on equity in the home to avoid
    foreclosure. A decline in home prices increases the risk of
    default. The presence of credit enhancements mitigates credit
    losses caused by defaults.

We classify single-family loans as seriously delinquent when a
    borrower has missed three or more consecutive monthly payments,
    and the loan has not been brought current or extinguished
    through foreclosure, payoff or other resolution. A loan referred
    to foreclosure but not yet foreclosed is also considered
    seriously delinquent. Loans that are subject to a repayment plan
    are classified as seriously delinquent until the borrower has
    missed fewer than three consecutive monthly payments. We
    calculate the single-family serious delinquency rate by dividing
    the number of seriously delinquent single-family loans by the
    total number of single-family loans outstanding. We include all
    of the conventional single-family loans that we own and that
    back Fannie Mae MBS in our single-family delinquency rate,
    including those with substantial credit enhancement. We
    distinguish between loans on which we have some form of credit
    enhancement and loans on which we do not have credit enhancement.

We classify multifamily loans as seriously delinquent when
    payment is 60 days or more past due. We calculate the
    multifamily serious delinquency rate by dividing the unpaid
    principal balance of seriously delinquent multifamily loans by
    the unpaid principal balance of all multifamily loans we own and
    that back Fannie Mae MBS or housing authority bonds for which we
    provide credit enhancement. The table below compares the serious
    delinquency rates for all conventional single-family loans and
    multifamily loans, in each case with credit enhancements and
    without credit enhancements.

149

Table of Contents   

Table
    30:  Serious Delinquency Rates  

(1)   

Reported based on unpaid principal
    balance.

(2)   

Reported based on number of loans
    for single-family and unpaid principal balance for multifamily.

The increase in the multifamily serious delinquency rate to
    0.29% as of December 31, 2003 was primarily attributable to
    the addition of $137 million in seriously delinquent loans
    from two borrowers with properties in weaker markets. All but
    one of these loans were restructured or became current during
    2004, resulting in a decline in the multifamily serious
    delinquency rate to 0.11% as of December 31, 2004. The
    impact of Hurricane Katrina during the fourth quarter of 2005
    led to an increase in our multifamily serious delinquency rate
    to 0.32% as of December 31, 2005, which subsequently
    declined during 2006 from the resolution of loans secured by
    property in the Gulf Coast region.

As a result of the sharp decline in the rate of home price
    appreciation during 2006 and the possibility of modest home
    price declines in 2007, we expect that serious delinquencies may
    trend upward. As of September 30, 2006, approximately 8% of
    our conventional single-family mortgage credit book had an
    estimated
     mark-to-market 
     loan-to-value 
    ratio greater than 80%. Over 80% of these loans were covered by
    credit enhancement. In examining the geographic concentration of
    these high LTV loans, there was no metropolitan statistical area
    with more than 5% of this segment of our conventional
    single-family mortgage credit book of business. The three
    largest metropolitan statistical area concentrations were in
    Atlanta, Detroit and Dallas.

Nonperforming
    Loans  

We classify conventional single-family loans, including
    delinquent loans purchased from an MBS trust pursuant to the
    terms of the trust indenture, as nonperforming and place them on
    nonaccrual status at the earlier of when payment of principal
    and interest becomes three months or more past due according to
    the loan s contractual terms or when, in our opinion,
    collectibility of interest or principal is not reasonably
    assured. We classify conventional multifamily loans as
    nonperforming and place them on nonaccrual status at the earlier
    of when payment of principal and interest is three months or
    more past due according to the loan s contractual terms or
    when we determine that collectibility of all principal or
    interest is not reasonably assured based on an individual loan
    level assessment. We continue to accrue interest on
    nonperforming loans that are federally insured or guaranteed by
    the U.S. government. Table 31 provides statistics on
    nonperforming single-family and multifamily loans as of
    December 31, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

150

Table of Contents   

Table
    31:  Nonperforming Single-Family and Multifamily
    Loans  

(1)   

Troubled debt restructurings
    include loans whereby the contractual terms have been modified
    that result in concessions to borrowers experiencing financial
    difficulties.

(2)   

Forgone interest income represents
    the amount of interest income that would have been recorded
    during the year on nonperforming loans as of December 31
    had the loans performed according to their contractual terms.

(3)   

Represents interest income
    recognized during the year on loans classified as nonperforming
    as of December 31.

(4)   

Recorded investment of loans as of
    December 31 that are 90 days or more past due and
    continuing to accrue interest include loans insured or
    guaranteed by the government and loans where we have recourse
    against the seller of the loan in the event of a default.

Credit
    Losses  

Credit loss performance is a significant indicator of the
    effectiveness of our credit risk management strategies.
    Credit-related losses include charge-offs plus foreclosed
    property expense (income). Credit losses for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 are presented in Table 32.

Table
    32:  Single-Family and Multifamily Credit Loss
    Performance  

(1)   

Represents charge-offs, net of
    recoveries, divided by average mortgage credit book of business.

(2)   

Represents credit-related losses
    divided by average mortgage credit book of business.

Interest forgone on nonperforming loans in our mortgage
    portfolio, which is presented in Table 31, reduces our net
    interest income but is not reflected in our credit loss total.
     Other-than-temporary 
    impairment resulting from deterioration in credit quality of our
    mortgage-related securities is not included in credit-related
    losses. As shown in Table 32, our credit losses for the years
    presented have averaged 1.0 basis point, or 0.01%, of our
    average mortgage credit book of business over the periods
    presented. The rapid acceleration in home prices during the
    period from 1999 to 2005, combined with our use of credit
    enhancements, helped to mitigate our credit losses. As a result
    of the substantial slowdown in home price appreciation during
    2006 and our belief that home prices may decline modestly in
    2007, we expect our credit losses to increase.

151

Table of Contents   

Losses from the Gulf Coast Hurricanes Katrina and Rita increased
    our provision for credit losses in 2005. Our exposure to losses
    as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita arose primarily from
    Fannie Mae MBS backed by loans secured by properties in the
    affected areas, our portfolio holdings of mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities backed by loans secured by
    properties in the affected areas, and real estate that we own in
    the affected areas. We initially estimated that our after-tax
    losses associated with the Gulf Coast Hurricanes would be in a
    range of $250 million to $550 million, which included
    both single-family and multifamily properties. As a result of
    our ongoing assessment and loss mitigation activities, we
    reduced and refined our estimated after-tax losses to a range of
    $97 million to $160 million. The reduction in our
    estimate is the result of several factors, including the
    liquidation of a number of loans relating to flooded properties
    from our mortgage portfolio, borrower receipts of more insurance
    and disaster relief funds than previously expected on the
    flooded properties and reduced delinquencies for affected loans
    outside the flood-damaged areas. Our ongoing analysis has
    resulted in a further reduction in our combined allowance for
    loan losses and reserve for guaranty losses during the first
    nine months of 2006 to reflect our revised estimate. Further
    adjustments to this estimate are possible as we continue to
    monitor this issue.

We use internally developed models to assess our sensitivity to
    credit losses based on current data on home values, borrower
    payment patterns, non-mortgage consumer credit history and
    management s economic outlook. We closely examine a range
    of potential economic scenarios to monitor the sensitivity of
    credit losses. Our models indicate that home price movements are
    an important predictor of credit performance. Pursuant to the
    September 1, 2005 agreement with OFHEO, we agreed to
    provide quarterly assessments of the impact on our expected
    credit losses from an immediate 5% decline in single-family home
    prices for the entire United States, which we believe is a
    stressful scenario based on housing data from OFHEO. Historical
    statistics from OFHEO s house price index reports indicate
    the national average rate of home price appreciation over the
    last 20 years has been about 5.3%, while the lowest
    national average annual appreciation rate in any single year has
    been 0.3%. However, we believe there is a possibility of modest
    declines in home prices in 2007.

We develop a baseline scenario that estimates the present value
    of future credit losses over a ten-year period. We then
    calculate the present value of credit losses assuming an
    immediate 5% decline in the value of single-family properties
    securing mortgage loans we own or that back Fannie Mae MBS.
    Following this decline, we assume home prices will follow a
    statistically derived long-term path. The sensitivity of future
    credit losses represents the dollar difference between credit
    losses in the baseline scenario and credit losses assuming the
    immediate 5% home price decline. The estimated sensitivity of
    our expected future credit losses to an immediate 5% decline in
    home values for single-family mortgage loans as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003 is disclosed in the following
    table. We disclose both the gross credit loss sensitivity prior
    to the receipt of private mortgage insurance claims or any other
    credit enhancements and the net credit loss sensitivity after
    consideration of these items.

Table
    33:  Single-Family Credit Loss
    Sensitivity (1)   

(1)   

Represents total economic credit
    losses, which include net charge-offs/recoveries, foreclosed
    property expenses, forgone interest and the cost of carrying
    foreclosed properties.

152

Table of Contents   

(2)   

Measures the gross sensitivity of
    our expected future credit losses to an immediate 5% decline in
    home values for first lien single-family whole loans we own or
    that back Fannie Mae MBS. After the initial shock, we estimate
    home price growth rates return to the rate projected by our
    credit pricing models.

The estimates in the preceding paragraphs are based on
    approximately 90% and 92% of our total single-family mortgage
    credit book of business as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively. The mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities
    that are included in these estimates consist of single-family
    single-class Fannie Mae MBS (whether held in our portfolio
    or held by third parties) and single-family whole mortgage
    loans, excluding mortgages secured only by second liens and
    reverse mortgages. We expect the inclusion in our estimates of
    these excluded products may impact the estimated sensitivities
    set forth in the preceding paragraphs. The above estimated
    credit loss sensitivities are generated using the same models
    that we use to estimate fair value and impairment. We have made
    certain modifications to our models from those used to report
    previous credit loss sensitivities. We believe the model changes
    have less than a 10% impact on our reported gross and net loss
    sensitivities.

Foreclosure and REO activity affects the level of credit losses.
    The table below shows foreclosure and REO activity for our
    single-family mortgage credit book of business for the years
    ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

Table
    34:  Single-Family Foreclosed Property
    Activity  

(1)   

Includes deeds in lieu of
    foreclosure.

(2)   

See footnote 4 to Table 27 for
    states included in each geographic region.

Our inventory of multifamily foreclosed properties consisted of
    18, 20 and 3 properties as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and
    2002, respectively, with a carrying value totaling
    $131 million, $98 million and $9 million as of
    the end of each respective period.

Allowance
    for Loan Losses and Reserve for Guaranty Losses  

We maintain a separate allowance for loan losses for
    single-family and multifamily loans classified as held for
    investment in our mortgage portfolio and a reserve for guaranty
    losses for credit-related losses associated with certain
    mortgage loans that back Fannie Mae MBS held in our portfolio
    and held by other investors. The allowance for loan losses and
    reserve for guaranty losses represent our estimate of incurred
    credit losses inherent in our loans held for investment and
    loans underlying Fannie Mae MBS, respectively, as of each
    balance sheet date. We use the same methodology to determine our
    allowance for loan losses and our reserve for guaranty losses
    because the relevant factors affecting credit risk are the same.
    We recognize credit losses and record a provision for credit
    losses when available information indicates that it is probable
    that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be
    reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 5,
     Accounting for Contingencies . We also evaluate certain
    single-family and multifamily loans on an individual basis to
    recognize and measure impairment and record an allowance for
    incurred losses in accordance with the

153

Table of Contents   

provisions of SFAS 114. We provide additional information
    on the methodology used in developing our allowance for loan
    losses and reserve for guaranty losses in  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2, Summary of
    Significant Accounting Policies.  Because of the
    significant degree of judgment involved in estimating the
    allowance for loan losses and reserve for guaranty losses, we
    identify it as a critical accounting policy and discuss the
    assumptions involved in our estimation process in  Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowance for Loan Losses
    and Reserve for Guaranty Losses. 

We report the allowance for loan losses and reserve for guaranty
    losses as separate line items in the consolidated balance
    sheets. The provision for credit losses is reported in the
    consolidated statements of income. Table 35 summarizes changes
    in our allowance for loan losses and reserve for guaranty losses
    for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

Table
    35:  Allowance for Loan Losses and Reserve for
    Guaranty Losses  

(1)   

Includes accrued interest of
    $29 million, $29 million and $24 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

(2)   

Includes decrease in reserve for
    guaranty losses and increase in allowance for loan losses due to
    the purchase of
     delinquent 
    loans from MBS pools.

(3)   

Represents ratio of combined
    allowance and reserve balance by loan type to mortgage credit
    book of business by loan type.

154

Table of Contents   

Our combined allowance for loan losses and reserve for guaranty
    losses totaled $745 million as of December 31, 2004,
    compared with $603 million and $439 million as of
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The amount of our
    allowance for loan losses and reserve for guaranty losses
    increased during this period primarily due to growth in our book
    of business. However, the combined allowance for loan losses and
    reserve for guaranty losses as a percentage of our mortgage
    credit book of business remained relatively stable, averaging
    between 0.02% and 0.03%. This trend reflects our historically
    low average default rates and loss severity on foreclosed
    properties. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we increased our
    combined allowance for loan losses and reserve for guaranty
    losses by $142 million due to an observed reduction in
    subsequent recourse proceeds from lenders on certain charged-off
    loans.

Institutional
    Counterparty Credit Risk Management   

Institutional counterparty risk is the risk that institutional
    counterparties may be unable to fulfill their contractual
    obligations to us. Our primary exposure to institutional
    counterparty risk exists with our lending partners and
    servicers, mortgage insurers, dealers who distribute our debt
    securities or who commit to sell mortgage pools or loans,
    issuers of investments included in our liquid investment
    portfolio, and derivatives counterparties.

Our overall objective in managing institutional counterparty
    credit risk is to maintain individual counterparty exposures
    within acceptable ranges based on our rating system. We achieve
    this objective through the following:

establishment and observance of counterparty eligibility
    standards appropriate to each exposure type and level;

establishment of credit limits;

requiring collateralization of exposures where
    appropriate; and

exposure monitoring and management.

Establishment and Observance of Counterparty Eligibility
    Standards.   The institutions with which we do
    business vary in size and complexity from the largest
    international financial institutions to small, local lenders.
    Because of this, counterparty eligibility criteria vary
    depending upon the type and magnitude of the risk exposure
    incurred. We incorporate both the ratings provided by the rating
    agencies as well as internal ratings in determining eligibility.
    For significant exposures, we generally require that our
    counterparties have at least the equivalent of an investment
    grade rating ( i.e. , a rating of
    BBB /Baa3/BBB  or higher by Standard &
    Poor s, Moody s and Fitch, respectively.) Due to
    factors such as the nature, type and scope of counterparty
    exposure, requirements may be higher. For example, for mortgage
    insurance counterparties, we have generally required a minimum
    rating of AA /Aa3/AA , whereas we accept
    comparatively lower ratings for our risk sharing, recourse and
    mortgage servicing counterparties. In addition to ratings,
    factors including corporate or third-party support or
    guaranties, our knowledge of the counterparty, reputation,
    quality of operations, and experience are also important in
    determining the initial and continuing eligibility of a
    counterparty. Specific eligibility criteria are communicated
    through policies and procedures of the individual businesses or
    products.

Establishment of Credit Limits.   All
    institutions are assigned a limit to ensure that the risk
    exposure is maintained at a level appropriate for the
    institution s rating and the time horizon for the exposure,
    as well as to diversify exposure so that no single counterparty
    exceeds a certain percentage of our regulatory capital. Limits
    are established for the institution as a whole as well as for
    individual subsidiaries or affiliates. A corporate limit is
    first established for the aggregate of all activity and then is
    divided among individual business units. Our businesses may
    further subdivide limits among products or activities.

Requiring Collateralization of Exposures.   We
    may require collateral, letters of credit or investment
    agreements as a condition to approving exposure to a
    counterparty. We may also require that a counterparty post
    collateral in the event of an adverse event such as a ratings
    downgrade.

Exposure Monitoring and Management.   The risk
    management functions of the individual business units are
    responsible for managing the counterparty exposures associated
    with their activities within corporate limits.

155

Table of Contents   

An oversight team within the Chief Risk Office is responsible
    for establishing and enforcing corporate policies and procedures
    regarding counterparties, establishing corporate limits, and
    aggregating and reporting institutional counterparty exposure.
    We calculate exposures by using current exposure information and
    applying stress scenarios to determine our loss exposure if a
    default occurs. The stress scenarios incorporate assumptions on
    shocks to interest rates, home prices or other variables
    appropriate for the type of risk. We regularly update exposure
    limits for individual institutions in our risk management system
    to communicate to business and credit staff throughout the
    company the capacity for further business activity. We regularly
    report exposures with our largest counterparties to the Risk
    Policy and Capital Committee of the Board of Directors.

Lenders
    with Risk Sharing  

The primary risk associated with lenders providing risk sharing
    agreements is that they will fail to reimburse us for losses as
    required under these agreements. We had recourse to lenders for
    losses on single-family loans totaling an estimated
    $54.2 billion and $51.0 billion as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The credit
    quality of these counterparties is generally high. Investment
    grade counterparties, based on the lower of Standard and
    Poor s and Moody s ratings, accounted for 60% and 59%
    of lender recourse obligations as of December 31, 2004 and
    2003, respectively. In addition, we require some lenders to
    pledge collateral to secure their recourse obligations. We held
    $66 million and $135 million in collateral as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, to secure
    single-family recourse transactions. A portion of servicing fees
    on $2.2 trillion and $2.1 trillion of mortgage loans as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, also effectively
    served as collateral for these obligations.

We had full or partial recourse to lenders on multifamily loans
    totaling $107.1 billion and $97.0 billion as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our multifamily
    recourse obligations generally were partially or fully secured
    by reserves held in custodial accounts, insurance policies,
    letters of credit from investment grade counterparties rated A
    or better, or investment agreements.

Mortgage
    Servicers  

The primary risk associated with mortgage servicers is that they
    will fail to fulfill their servicing obligations. Mortgage
    servicers collect mortgage and escrow payments from borrowers,
    pay taxes and insurance costs from escrow accounts, monitor and
    report delinquencies, and perform other required activities on
    our behalf. A servicing contract breach could result in credit
    losses for us or could cause us to incur the cost of finding a
    replacement servicer. For most servicers, we mitigate these
    risks in several ways, including requiring servicers to maintain
    a minimum servicing fee reserve to compensate a replacement
    servicer in the event of a servicing contract breach; requiring
    servicers to follow specific servicing guidelines; monitoring
    the performance of each servicer using loan-level data;
    conducting
     on-site 
    reviews to confirm compliance with servicing guidelines and
    mortgage servicing performance; and working
     on-site  with
    nearly all of our major servicers to facilitate loan loss
    mitigation efforts and continuously improve the default
    management process.

Our ten largest single-family mortgage servicers serviced 71%
    and 69% of our single-family mortgage credit book of business,
    and the largest single-family mortgage servicer serviced 21% and
    19% of our single-family mortgage credit book of business as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our ten largest
    multifamily servicers serviced 67% of our multifamily credit
    book of business as of both December 31, 2004 and 2003. The
    largest multifamily mortgage servicer serviced 11% and 13% of
    our multifamily credit book of business as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003, respectively.

Mortgage
    Insurers  

The primary risk associated with mortgage insurers is that they
    will fail to fulfill their obligations to reimburse us for
    claims under insurance policies. We manage this risk by
    establishing eligibility requirements that an insurer must meet
    to become and remain a qualified mortgage insurer. Qualified
    mortgage insurers generally must obtain and maintain external
    ratings of claims paying ability, with a minimum acceptable
    level of Aa3 from Moody s and AA- from Standard &
    Poor s and Fitch. We regularly monitor our exposure to
    individual mortgage insurers and mortgage insurer credit
    ratings. We also perform periodic
     on-site 
    reviews of mortgage insurers to confirm compliance with
    eligibility requirements and to evaluate their management and
    control practices.

156

Table of Contents   

We were the beneficiary of primary mortgage insurance coverage
    on $285.4 billion of single-family loans in portfolio or
    underlying Fannie Mae MBS as of December 31, 2004, which
    represented approximately 13% of our single-family mortgage
    credit book of business, compared with $308.8 billion, or
    approximately 15%, of our single-family mortgage credit book of
    business as of December 31, 2003. Seven mortgage insurance
    companies, all rated AA (or its equivalent) or higher by
    Standard & Poor s, Moody s or Fitch, provided
    approximately 99% of the total coverage as of both
    December 31, 2004 and 2003.

Debt
    Security and Mortgage Dealers  

The primary credit risk associated with dealers who commit to
    place our debt securities is that they will fail to honor their
    contracts to take delivery of the debt, which could result in
    delayed issuance of the debt through another dealer. The primary
    credit risk associated with dealers who make forward commitments
    to deliver mortgage pools to us is that they may fail to deliver
    the agreed-upon loans to us at the agreed-upon date, which could
    result in our having to replace the mortgage pools at higher
    cost to meet a forward commitment to sell the MBS.

Mortgage
    Originators and Investors  

We are routinely exposed to pre-settlement risk through the
    purchase, sale and financing of mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities with mortgage originators and
    mortgage investors. The risk is the possibility that the market
    moves against us at the same time the counterparty is unable or
    unwilling to either deliver mortgage assets or pay a pair-off
    fee. On average, the time between trade and settlement is about
    35 days. We manage this risk by determining position limits
    with these counterparties, based upon our assessment of their
    creditworthiness, and we monitor and manage these exposures.
    Based upon this assessment, we may, in some cases, require
    counterparties to post collateral.

Liquid
    Investment Portfolio  

The primary credit exposure associated with investments held in
    our liquid investment portfolio is that issuers will not repay
    principal and interest in accordance with the contractual terms.
    We believe the risk of default is low because we restrict these
    investments to high credit quality short- and medium-term
    instruments, such as commercial paper, asset-backed securities
    and corporate floating rate notes, which are broadly traded in
    the financial markets. Our non-mortgage securities, which
    account for the majority of our liquid assets, totaled
    $43.9 billion and $46.8 billion as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Approximately 93%
    and 88% of our non-mortgage securities as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003, respectively, had a credit rating of A (or its
    equivalent) or higher, based on the lowest of
    Standard & Poor s, Moody s or Fitch ratings.
    We monitor the fair value of these securities and regularly
    evaluate any impairment to assess whether the impairment is
    required to be recognized in earnings because it is considered
    other than temporary.

Derivatives
    Counterparties  

The primary credit exposure that we have on a derivative
    transaction is that a counterparty will default on payments due,
    which could result in us having to acquire a replacement
    derivative from a different counterparty at a higher cost. Our
    derivative credit exposure relates principally to interest rate
    and foreign currency derivative contracts. Typically, we manage
    this exposure by contracting with experienced counterparties
    that are rated A (or its equivalent) or better. These
    counterparties consist of large banks, broker-dealers and other
    financial institutions that have a significant presence in the
    derivatives market, most of which are based in the United
    States. As an additional precaution, we have a conservative
    collateral management policy with provisions for requiring
    collateral on aggregate gain positions with each interest rate
    and foreign currency derivative counterparty. Also, we enter
    into master agreements that provide for netting of amounts due
    to us and amounts due to counterparties under those agreements.
    We monitor credit exposure on these derivative contracts daily
    and make collateral calls daily based on the results of our
    internal models and dealer quotes. To date, we have never
    experienced a loss on a derivative transaction due to credit
    default by a counterparty.

Counterparties use the notional amounts of derivative
    instruments as the basis from which to calculate contractual
    cash flows to be exchanged. However, the notional amount is
    significantly greater than the potential market or credit loss
    that could result from such transactions and therefore does not
    represent our

157

Table of Contents   

actual risk. Rather, we estimate our exposure to credit loss on
    derivative instruments by calculating the replacement cost, on a
    present value basis, to settle at current market prices all
    outstanding derivative contracts in a net gain position by
    counterparty where the right of legal offset exists, such as
    master netting agreements. Derivatives in a gain position are
    reported in the consolidated balance sheet as  Derivative
    assets at fair value.  Table 36 presents our assessment of
    our credit loss exposure by counterparty credit rating on
    outstanding risk management derivative contracts as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003. We show the outstanding
    notional amount and activity for our risk management derivatives
    in Table 37.

Table
    36:  Credit Loss Exposure of Derivative
    Instruments  

(1)   

We manage collateral requirements
    based on the lower credit rating of the legal entity as issued
    by Standard & Poor s and Moody s. The credit
    rating reflects the equivalent Standard & Poor s rating
    for any ratings based on Moody s scale.

(2)   

Includes MBS options, mortgage
    insurance contracts and swap credit enhancements accounted for
    as derivatives.

(3)   

Represents the exposure to credit
    loss on derivative instruments, which is estimated by
    calculating the cost, on a present value basis, to replace all
    outstanding contracts in a gain position. Derivative gains and
    losses with the same counterparty are presented net where a
    legal right of offset exists under an enforceable master
    settlement agreement. This table excludes mortgage commitments
    accounted for as derivatives.

(4)   

Represents the collateral held as
    of December 31, 2004 and 2003, adjusted for the collateral
    transferred subsequent to December 31 based on credit loss
    exposure limits on derivative instruments as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003. Settlement dates vary by
    counterparty and range from one to three business days following
    the credit loss exposure valuation dates of December 31,
    2004 and 2003. The value of the collateral is reduced in
    accordance with counterparty agreements to help ensure recovery
    of any loss through the disposition of the collateral. We posted
    non-cash collateral of $56 million and $301 million
    related to our counterparties  credit exposure to us as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Our credit exposure on risk management derivatives, after
    consideration of the value of collateral held, was
    $542 million and $495 million as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003, respectively. We expect the credit exposure on
    derivative contracts to fluctuate with changes in interest
    rates, implied volatility and the collateral thresholds of the
    counterparties. To reduce our credit risk concentration, we
    diversify our derivative contracts among different
    counterparties. We had 23 interest rate and foreign currency
    derivatives counterparties as of December 31, 2004 and
    2003. Of the 23 counterparties as of December 31, 2004,
    eight counterparties accounted for approximately 83% of the
    total outstanding notional amount, and each of these eight

158

Table of Contents   

counterparties accounted for between approximately 7% and 14% of
    the total outstanding notional amount. Each of the remaining
    counterparties accounted for less than 5% of the total
    outstanding notional amount as of December 31, 2004. In
    comparison, seven counterparties accounted for approximately 74%
    of the total outstanding notional amount as of December 31,
    2003. Each of these counterparties accounted for between
    approximately 6% and 16% of the total outstanding notional
    amount, with each of the remaining counterparties accounting for
    less than 5% of the total outstanding notional amount.

Approximately 50% of our net derivatives exposure of
    $542 million as of December 31, 2004 and 64% of our
    net derivatives exposure of $495 million as of
    December 31, 2003 was with 10 counterparties rated AA- or
    better by Standard & Poor s and Aa3 or better by
    Moody s. The percentage of our net exposure with these
    counterparties ranged from approximately 0.1% to 13%, or less
    than $1 million to $70 million as of December 31,
    2004, and from approximately 0.1% to 21%, or less than
    $1 million to $102 million as of December 31,
    2003.

We mitigate our net exposure on interest rate and foreign
    currency derivative transactions through a collateral management
    policy, which consists of four primary components.

Minimum Collateral Threshold.   Our derivatives
    counterparties are obligated to post collateral when exposure to
    credit losses exceeds agreed-upon thresholds that are based on
    credit ratings. The amount of collateral generally must equal
    the excess of exposure over the threshold amount.

Collateral Valuation Percentages.   We require
    counterparties to post specific types of collateral to meet
    their collateral requirements. The collateral posted by our
    counterparties as of December 31, 2004 consisted of cash,
    U.S. Treasury securities, agency debt and agency
    mortgage-related securities. We assign each type of collateral a
    specific valuation percentage based on its relative risk. In
    cases where the valuation percentage for a certain type of
    collateral is less than 100%, we require counterparties to post
    an additional amount of collateral to meet their requirements.

Over-collateralization Based on Low Credit
    Ratings.   We further reduce our net exposure on
    derivatives by generally requiring over-collateralization from
    counterparties whose credit ratings have dropped below
    predetermined levels. Counterparties with credit ratings falling
    below these levels must post collateral beyond the amounts
    previously noted to meet their overall requirements.

Daily Monitoring Procedures.   On a daily basis,
    we value our derivative collateral positions for each
    counterparty using both internal and external pricing models,
    compare the exposure to counterparty limits, and determine
    whether additional collateral is required. We evaluate any
    additional exposure to a counterparty beyond our model tolerance
    level based on our corporate credit policy framework for
    managing counterparty risk.

Interest
    Rate Risk Management and Other Market Risks  

Our most significant market risks are interest rate risk and
    spread risk, which arise primarily from the prepayment
    uncertainty associated with investing in mortgage-related assets
    with prepayment options and from the changing supply and demand
    for mortgage assets. The majority of our mortgage assets are
    intermediate-term or long-term fixed-rate loans that borrowers
    have the option to pay at any time before the scheduled maturity
    date or continue paying until the stated maturity. An inverse
    relationship exists between changes in interest rates and the
    value of fixed-rate investments, including mortgages. As
    interest rates decline, the value or price of fixed-rate
    mortgages held in our portfolio will generally increase because
    mortgage assets originated at the prevailing interest rates are
    likely to have lower yields and prices than the assets we
    currently hold in our portfolio. Conversely, an increase in
    interest rates tends to result in a reduction in the value of
    our assets. As interest rates decline prepayment rates tend to
    increase because more favorable financing is available to the
    borrower, which shortens the duration of our mortgage assets.
    The opposite effect occurs as interest rates increase.

One way of reducing the interest rate risk associated with
    investing in long-term, fixed-rate mortgages is to fund these
    investments with long-term debt with similar offsetting
    characteristics. This strategy is complicated by the fact that
    most borrowers have the option of prepaying their mortgages at
    any time, a factor that is

159

Table of Contents   

beyond our control and driven to a large extent by changes in
    interest rates. In addition, funding mortgage investments with
    debt results in
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS risk, or basis risk, which is the risk that interest rates
    in different market sectors will not move in the same direction
    or amount at the same time.

Our Capital Markets group is responsible for managing interest
    rate risk subject to corporate risk policies and limits approved
    by the Board of Directors. In 2006, our Board of Directors
    approved a policy that prescribes interest rate risk dollar
    limits and requires escalation to senior management and the
    Board of Directors if risk limits are exceeded. The Chief Risk
    Officer provides corporate oversight of the interest rate risk
    management process and is responsible for measuring and
    monitoring interest rate risk and providing regular reports to
    senior management and the Board of Directors. The Capital
    Markets Investment Committee, a management-level committee that
    includes senior officers in the Capital Markets group, meets
    weekly to review our current interest rate risk position
    relative to risk limits. The Capital Markets Investment
    Committee develops and monitors near-term strategies that comply
    with our risk objectives and policies. The Capital Markets
    Investment Committee reports interest rate risk measures on a
    weekly basis. As discussed in  Supplemental Non-GAAP
    Information Fair Value Balance Sheet,  we do not
    attempt to actively manage or hedge the impact of changes in
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS after we purchase mortgage assets, other than through asset
    monitoring and disposition. We accept
     period-to-period 
    volatility in our financial performance due to
     mortgage-to-debt 
    OAS consistent with our corporate risk principles.

Interest
    Rate Risk Management Strategies   

Our portfolio of interest rate-sensitive instruments includes
    our investments in mortgage loans and securities, the debt
    issued to fund those assets, and the derivatives we use to
    manage interest rate risk. These assets and liabilities have a
    variety of risk profiles and sensitivities. We employ an
    integrated interest rate risk management strategy that includes
    asset selection and structuring of our liabilities to match and
    offset the interest rate characteristics of our balance sheet
    assets and liabilities as much as possible. Our strategy
    consists of:

issuing a broad range of both callable and non-callable debt
    instruments to manage the duration and prepayment risk of
    expected cash flows of the mortgage assets we own;

supplementing our issuance of debt with derivative instruments
    to further reduce duration and prepayment risks; and

on-going monitoring of our risk positions and actively
    rebalancing our portfolio of interest rate-sensitive financial
    instruments to maintain a close match between the duration of
    our assets and liabilities.

Debt
    Instruments  

The primary tool we use to manage the interest rate risk
    implicit in our mortgage assets is the variety of debt
    instruments we issue. Our ability to issue both short- and
    long-term debt helps in managing the duration risk associated
    with an investment in long-term fixed-rate assets. We issue
    callable debt to help us manage the prepayment risk associated
    with fixed-rate mortgage assets. The duration of callable debt
    changes when interest rates change in a manner similar to
    changes in the duration of mortgage assets. See
     Item 1 Business Business
    Segments Capital Markets Funding of Our
    Investments  for additional information on our various
    types of debt securities and  Liquidity and Capital
    Management Liquidity Debt Funding. 

Derivative
    Instruments  

Why We
    Use Derivatives  

Derivatives also are an integral part of our strategy in
    managing interest rate risk. We use interest rate swaps and
    interest rate options, in combination with our issuance of debt
    securities, to better match both the duration and prepayment
    risk of our mortgages. We are generally an end user of
    derivatives and our principal purpose in using derivatives is to
    manage our aggregate interest rate risk profile within
    prescribed risk parameters. We generally only use derivatives
    that are highly liquid and relatively straightforward to value.
    We have derivative transaction policies and controls to minimize
    our derivative counterparty risk that are described in
     Credit Risk

160

Table of Contents   

Management Institutional Counterparty Credit Risk
    Management Derivatives Counterparties.  We use
    derivatives for three primary purposes:

(1) As a substitute for notes and bonds that we issue in
    the debt markets.

When we purchase mortgages, we fund the purchase with a
    combination of equity and debt. The debt we issue is a mix that
    typically consists of short- and long-term, non-callable debt
    and callable debt. The varied maturities and flexibility of
    these debt combinations help us in reducing the mismatch of cash
    flows between assets and liabilities.

We can use a mix of debt issuances and derivatives to achieve
    the same duration matching that would be achieved by issuing
    only debt securities. The primary types of derivatives used for
    this purpose include pay-fixed and receive-fixed interest rate
    swaps (used as substitutes for non-callable debt) and pay-fixed
    and receive-fixed swaptions (used as substitutes for callable
    debt).

Below is an example of equivalent funding alternatives for a
    mortgage purchase with funding derived solely from debt
    securities versus funding with a blend of debt securities and
    derivatives. As illustrated below, we can achieve similar
    economic results by funding our mortgage purchases with either
    debt securities or a combination of debt securities and
    derivatives, as follows:

Rather than issuing a
     10-year 
    non-callable fixed-rate note, we could issue short-term debt and
    enter into a
     10-year 
    interest rate swap with a highly rated counterparty. The
    derivative counterparty would pay a floating rate of interest to
    us on the swap that we would use to pay the interest expense on
    the short-term debt, which we would continue to reissue. We
    would pay the counterparty a fixed rate of interest on the swap,
    thus achieving the economics of a
     10-year 
    fixed-rate note issue. The combination of the pay-fixed interest
    rate swap and short-term debt serves as a substitute for
    non-callable fixed-rate debt.

Similarly, instead of issuing a
     10-year 
    fixed-rate note callable after three years, we could issue a
     10-year 
    fixed-rate note and enter into a receive-fixed swaption that
    would have the same economics as a
     10-year 
    callable note. If we want to call the debt after three years,
    the swaption would give us the option to enter into a swap
    agreement where we would receive a fixed rate of interest from
    the derivative counterparty over the remaining
     7-year 
    period that would offset the fixed-rate interest payments on the
    long-term debt. The combination of the receive-fixed swaption
    and  10-year 
    non-callable note serves as a substitute for callable debt.

(2) To achieve risk management objectives not obtainable
    with debt market securities.

We sometimes have risk management objectives that cannot be
    fully accomplished by securities generally available in the debt
    markets. For example, we can use the derivative markets to
    purchase swaptions to add features to our debt not obtainable in
    the debt markets. Some of the features of the option embedded in
    a callable bond are dependent on the market environment at
    issuance and the par issuance price of the bond. Thus, in a
    callable bond we can not specify certain features, such as
    specifying an
      out-of-the-money  
    option, which could allow us to more closely match the interest
    rate risk being hedged. We use option-based derivatives, such as
    swaptions, because they provide the added flexibility to fully
    specify the features of the option, thereby allowing us to more
    closely match the interest rate risk being hedged.

(3) To quickly and efficiently rebalance our portfolio.

We seek to keep our assets and liabilities matched within a
    duration tolerance of plus or minus six months. When interest
    rates are volatile, we often need to lengthen or shorten the
    average duration of our liabilities to keep them closely matched
    with our mortgage durations, which change as expected mortgage
    prepayments change.

While we have a number of rebalancing tools available to us, it
    is often most efficient for us to rebalance our portfolio by
    adding new derivatives or by terminating existing derivative
    positions. For example, when interest rates fall and mortgage
    durations shorten, we can shorten the duration of our debt by
    entering into receive-fixed interest rate swaps that convert
    longer-duration, fixed-term debt into shorter-duration,
    floating-rate debt or by terminating existing pay-fixed interest
    rate swaps. This use of derivatives helps increase our funding

161

Table of Contents   

flexibility while maintaining our low risk tolerance. The types
    of derivative instruments we use most often to rebalance our
    portfolio include pay-fixed and receive-fixed interest rate
    swaps.

In addition to our three primary uses of derivatives, we may
    also use derivatives for the following purpose:

(4) To hedge foreign currency exposure.

We occasionally issue debt in a foreign currency. Because all of
    our assets are denominated in U.S. dollars, we enter into
    currency swaps to effectively convert the foreign-denominated
    debt into U.S. dollar-denominated debt. By swapping out of
    foreign currencies completely at the time of the debt issue, we
    minimize our exposure to any currency risk. Our
    foreign-denominated debt represents less than 1% of our total
    debt outstanding.

Types of
    Derivatives We Use  

Derivative instruments may be privately negotiated contracts,
    which are often referred to as OTC derivatives, or they may be
    listed and traded on an exchange. Our derivatives consist
    primarily of OTC contracts that fall into three broad categories.

Interest rate swap contracts.   An interest rate
    swap is a transaction between two parties in which each agrees
    to exchange payments tied to different interest rates or indices
    for a specified period of time, generally based on a notional
    amount of principal. The types of interest rate swaps we use
    include:

Pay-fixed, receive variable  an agreement whereby we
    pay a predetermined fixed rate of interest based upon a set
    notional amount and receive a variable interest payment based
    upon a stated index, with the index resetting at regular
    intervals over a specified period of time. These contracts
    generally increase in value as interest rates rise.

Receive-fixed, pay variable  an agreement whereby we
    make a variable interest payment based upon a stated index, with
    the index resetting at regular intervals, and receive a
    predetermined fixed rate of interest based upon a set notional
    amount and over a specified period of time. These contracts
    generally increase in value as interest rates fall.

Basis swap  an agreement that provides for the
    exchange of variable interest payments, based on notional
    amounts, tied to two different underlying interest rate indices.

Interest rate option contracts.   These
    contracts primarily include the following:

Pay-fixed swaptions  an option that allows us to
    enter into a pay-fixed, receive variable interest rate swap at
    some point in the future. These contracts generally increase in
    value as interest rates rise.

Receive-fixed swaptions  an option that allows us to
    enter into a receive-fixed, pay variable interest rate swap at
    some point in the future. These contracts generally increase in
    value as interest rates fall.

Interest rate caps  although an interest rate cap is
    not an option it has option-like characteristics. It is a
    contract in which we receive money when a reference interest
    rate, typically LIBOR, exceeds an agreed-upon referenced strike
    price ( cap ). The value generally increases as
    reference interest rates rise.

Foreign currency swaps.   Swaps that convert
    debt we issue in foreign-denominated currencies into
    U.S. dollars. We enter into foreign currency swaps only to
    the extent that we issue foreign currency debt.

Summary
    of Derivative Activity  

The decisions to reposition our derivative portfolio are based
    upon current assessments of our interest rate risk profile and
    economic conditions, including the composition of our
    consolidated balance sheets and expected trends, the relative
    mix of our debt and derivative positions, and the interest rate
    environment. Table 37 presents our risk management derivative
    activity by type for the year ended December 31, 2004,
    along with the stated maturities of derivatives outstanding as
    of December 31, 2004. Table 37 does not include mortgage
    commitments that are accounted for as derivatives. We discuss
    our mortgage commitments in  Business Segment
    Results Capital Markets Group. 

162

Table of Contents   

Table
    37:  Activity and Maturity Data for Risk Management
    Derivatives (1)   

(1)   

Excludes mortgage commitments
    accounted for as derivatives. Dollars represent notional amounts
    that indicate only the amount on which payments are being
    calculated and do not represent the amount at risk of loss.

(2)   

Notional amounts include callable
    swaps of $13.8 billion as of December 31, 2004.

(3)   

Notional amounts include putable
    swaps of $22.8 billion as of December 31, 2004.

(4)   

Includes MBS options, forward
    starting debt, forward purchase and sale agreements, swap credit
    enhancements and exchange-traded futures.

(5)   

Includes matured, called,
    exercised, assigned and terminated amounts. Also includes
    changes due to exchange rate movements.

(6)   

Based on contractual maturities.

During 2003, we increased the outstanding notional balance of
    derivatives by $383.8 billion to $1.0 trillion as of
    December 31, 2003, primarily as a result of significant
    rebalancing activity during the year in response to the effects
    of extreme interest rate volatility and our adoption of tighter
    risk tolerances. With record low interest rates during the early
    part of 2003 triggering record prepayments, we reduced our
    duration gap by actively rebalancing our portfolio, primarily by
    terminating existing interest rate swaps and entering into new
    receive-fixed interest rate swaps. As interest rates increased
    during the second half of the year and expected prepayments
    slowed, we began to extend the duration of our liabilities
    primarily through the use of pay-fixed interest rate swaps. In
    addition, as our portfolio expanded, we purchased more caps and
    swaptions to help offset the increased prepayment option risk
    resulting from our new mortgage purchases. During 2004, we
    decreased the outstanding notional balance of our risk
    management derivatives by $348.9 billion to

163

Table of Contents   

$690.1 billion as of December 31, 2004, primarily as a
    result of terminated offsetting pay-fixed and receive-fixed
    swaps. The outstanding notional balance of our risk management
    derivatives totaled $644 billion as of December 31,
    2005 and $703 billion as of September 30, 2006.

Monitoring
    and Active Portfolio Rebalancing  

Because single-family borrowers typically can prepay a mortgage
    at any time prior to maturity, the borrower s mortgage is
    economically similar to callable debt. By investing in mortgage
    assets, we assume this prepayment risk. As described above, we
    attempt to offset the prepayment risk and cover our short
    position either by issuing callable debt that we can redeem at
    our option or by purchasing option-based derivatives that we can
    exercise at our option. We also manage the prepayment risk of
    our assets relative to our funding through active portfolio
    rebalancing. We develop rebalancing actions based on a number of
    factors, including an assessment of key risk measures such as
    our duration gap and net asset fair value sensitivity, as well
    as analyses of additional risk measures and current market
    conditions.

Monitoring
    and Measuring Interest Rate Risk   

Our Capital Markets group utilizes a wide range of risk measures
    and analyses to manage the interest rate risk inherent in the
    mortgage portfolio. We produce a series of daily, weekly,
    monthly and quarterly analyses of interest rate risk measures.
    Many of our projections of mortgage cash flows in our interest
    rate risk measures depend on our internally developed
    proprietary prepayment models. The models contain many
    assumptions, including those regarding borrower behavior in
    certain interest rate environments and borrower relocation
    rates. Other market inputs, such as interest rates, mortgage
    prices and interest rate volatility, are also critical
    components to our interest rate risk measures. The historical
    patterns that serve as inputs for our models may not continue in
    the future. We maintain a research program to constantly
    evaluate, update and enhance these assumptions, models and
    analytical tools as appropriate to reflect our best assessment
    of the environment.

Our primary interest rate risk measures include duration gap,
    convexity and net asset fair value sensitivity measures. On a
    daily basis, we calculate base duration and convexity gaps as
    well as the expected change in the value of our investments for
    relatively moderate changes in interest rates. On a weekly
    basis, we also calculate the expected change in the value of our
    investments for larger movements in interest rates and other
    factors such as implied volatility of option prices. We also
    perform other standard risk measures on our portfolio that are
    based on historical changes in key variables, such as
     value-at-risk 
    measures and sensitivities to non-parallel changes in the yield
    curve.

Duration
    Gap  

The duration gap is a measure of the difference between the
    estimated durations of our assets and liabilities (debt and risk
    management derivatives). Duration gap summarizes the extent to
    which estimated cash flows for assets and liabilities are
    matched, on average, over time and across interest rate
    scenarios. A positive duration gap signals a greater exposure to
    rising interest rates because it indicates that the duration of
    our assets exceeds the duration of our liabilities.

Because our duration gap does not incorporate projected future
    business activity, it is considered a  run-off 
    measure of interest rate risk. It reflects our existing mortgage
    portfolio, including priced asset, debt and derivatives
    commitments. We also include the interest rate risk impact of
    derivative instruments in calculating the duration of
    liabilities. Our reported duration gap for periods prior to
    November 2005 excludes non-mortgage investments. We began
    including non-mortgage investments in our duration gap
    calculation in November 2005. These incremental assets are
    primarily short-term, liquid investments included in our liquid
    investment portfolio. Based on our historical experience, we
    expect that the guaranty fee income generated from future
    business activity will largely replace any guaranty fee income
    lost as a result of mortgage prepayments. Accordingly, we do not
    actively manage or hedge expected changes in the fair value of
    our guaranty business related to changes in interest rates. The
    fair values of our guaranty assets and guaranty obligations are
    presented in Table 24 in  Supplemental
    Non-GAAP Information Fair Value Balance Sheet. 

Pursuant to the September 1, 2005 agreement with OFHEO, we
    agreed to provide periodic public disclosures regarding the
    monthly averages of our duration gap. We disclose the duration
    gap on a monthly basis in our

164

Table of Contents   

Monthly Summary Report, which is available on our Web site and
    submitted to the SEC in a current report on
     Form 8-K. 
    Our monthly duration gap, which is presented below for the
    period January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2004 reflects
    the estimate used contemporaneously by management as of the
    reported date to manage the interest rate risk of our portfolio.
    During 2005 and 2006, our monthly duration gap has not exceeded
    plus or minus one month.

Convexity  

Convexity reflects the degree to which the duration and price of
    our mortgage assets change in response to a given change in
    interest rates. Because of the prepayment option that exists in
    mortgage assets, they tend to exhibit negative convexity.
    Negative convexity refers to the tendency of fixed-rate mortgage
    assets to fall in price faster in periods of rising interest
    rates compared to the rate at which they appreciate in periods
    of falling interest rates. We use convexity measures to provide
    us with information on how quickly and by how much the
    portfolio s duration gap may change in different interest
    rate environments. Our primary strategy for managing convexity
    risk is to either issue callable debt or purchase option-based
    derivatives.

Interest
    Rate Sensitivity of Net Asset Fair Value  

We perform various sensitivity analyses that quantify the
    projected impact of changes in interest rates on our interest
    rate sensitive assets and liabilities. Our analyses incorporate
    assumed changes in the interest rate environment, including
    selected hypothetical, instantaneous shifts in both the level
    and slope of the yield curve. Table 38 discloses the estimated
    fair value of our net assets as of December 31, 2004 and
    2003, and the impact on the estimated fair value from a
    hypothetical instantaneous shock in interest rates of a
    50 basis points decrease and a 100 basis points
    increase. We selected these interest rate changes because we
    believe they reflect reasonably possible near-term outcomes. We
    discuss how we derive the estimated fair value of our net
    assets, which serves as the base case for our sensitivity
    analysis, in  Supplemental
    Non-GAAP Information Fair Value Balance Sheet. 

165

Table of Contents   

Table
    38:  Interest Rate Sensitivity of Net Asset Fair
    Value  

(1)   

Consists of securities classified
    in the consolidated balance sheets as trading and carried at
    fair estimated value.

(2)   

Includes a reclassification of
    consolidated debt with a carrying value of $12.5 billion
    and estimated fair value of $12.2 billion as of
    December 31, 2004, respectively, and a carrying value of
    $10.0 billion and estimated fair value of
    $10.3 billion as of December 31, 2003, respectively.
    In addition, includes net guaranty asset amount of
    $500 million and $425 million as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003, respectively, reclassified from securities to
    guaranty asset, guaranty obligations to reflect how the risk is
    managed by the business.

(3)   

Includes net financial assets and
    financial liabilities reported in  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements Note 19, Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments  and additional market sensitive instruments
    that consist of master servicing assets, master servicing
    liabilities and credit enhancements.

(4)   

The sensitivity changes related to
    other non-financial assets and liabilities represent the tax
    effect on net assets under these scenarios and do not include
    any interest rate sensitivity related to these items.

(5)   

The carrying value for net assets
    equals total stockholders  equity as reported in the
    consolidated balance sheets.

(6)   

The net asset sensitivities,
    excluding the sensitivity of the  Guaranty assets and
    guaranty obligations, net,  net of tax is (3.2)% for a
     50 bp shock and (3.7)% for a +100 bp shock as of
    December 31, 2004, and (3.2)% for a  50 bp shock
    and (2.7)% for a +100 bp shock as of December 31, 2003.

166

Table of Contents   

As discussed above, we structure our debt and derivatives to
    match and offset the interest rate risk of our mortgage
    investments as much as possible. The interest rate sensitivities
    presented in Table 38 convey the extent to which changes in the
    estimated fair value of our mortgage assets are offset by
    changes in the estimated fair value of our debt and derivatives.
    Based on our sensitivity analyses, we estimate that a 50 basis
    point instantaneous decrease in interest rates and a 100 basis
    point instantaneous increase in interest rates would reduce the
    estimated fair value of our net assets as of December 31,
    2004 by approximately 5.6% and 1.3%, respectively. We estimate
    that a 50 basis point instantaneous decrease in interest rates
    and a 100 basis point instantaneous increase in interest rates
    would reduce the estimated fair value of our net assets as of
    December 31, 2003 by approximately 5.1% and 0.2%,
    respectively. These sensitivities, which are relatively stable
    from the end of 2003 to the end of 2004, indicate a relatively
    low level of interest rate risk.

We also show in footnote 6 of Table 38 the sensitivity of
    the estimated fair value of our net assets, excluding the
    sensitivity of our guaranty assets and guaranty obligations, net
    (net of tax). We evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of
    our net assets, excluding the sensitivity of our guaranty assets
    and guaranty obligations, because, as previously discussed, we
    do not actively manage the interest rate risk of our guaranty
    business.

These sensitivity analyses are limited in that they contemplate
    only certain movements in interest rates and are performed at a
    particular point in time based on the estimated fair values of
    our existing assets and liabilities. The sensitivity analyses do
    not incorporate other factors that may have a significant
    impact, most notably the value from expected future business
    activities and strategic actions that management may take to
    manage interest rate risk. Moreover, our sensitivity analyses
    require numerous assumptions, including prepayment factors and
    discount rates, which require management judgment. While we
    believe the assumptions and methodology used in our sensitivity
    analyses are reasonable, there is no standard methodology for
    estimating the sensitivity of net asset fair value and different
    assumptions could produce materially different sensitivity
    estimates.

In October 2000 we made a voluntary commitment to publicly
    disclose the results of interest rate risk sensitivity analyses
    on a monthly basis and began a monthly disclosure of net
    interest income at risk. Because our restatement affected net
    interest income at risk, we suspended this disclosure beginning
    in December 2004. Pursuant to our September 1, 2005
    agreement with OFHEO, we will begin disclosing the estimated
    impact on our financial condition of a 50-basis point shift in
    rates and a 25-basis point change in the slope of the yield
    curve when we have current financial statements.

Operational
    Risk Management  

Operational risk can manifest itself in many ways, including
    accounting or operational errors, business disruptions, fraud,
    technological failures and other operational challenges
    resulting from failed or inadequate internal controls. These
    events may potentially result in financial losses and other
    damage to our business, including reputational harm.

We currently manage operational risk through an enterprise-wide
    framework. In 2006, we established an independent Operational
    Risk Oversight ( ORO ) function within the Chief Risk
    Office with responsibility for oversight of the business
    units  operational risk management activities. In
    accordance with our Policy on Operational Risk Management
    established in October 2006, ORO regularly reports to senior
    management and the Board of Directors on the quality of our
    operational risk management and on identified operational risk
    exposures. ORO is also responsible for the design and
    implementation of operational risk management processes
    pertaining to capturing loss and  near miss  event
    data, risk and control assessments by the business units, key
    risk indicators, and analysis of scenarios representing
    significant potential losses to our business. To further
    strengthen our existing operational risk programs, in 2006, we
    centralized oversight of our business continuity efforts,
    information security programs, fraud management and our
    corporate insurance program under this new operational risk
    oversight function. We continue to work on improving our
    internal controls and procedures relating to the management of
    operational risk.

Our individual business units have direct responsibility for the
    identification, assessment, control and mitigation of the
    operational risks associated with their business activities.
    Senior officers within the business units have been designated
    as division operational risk officers, with dedicated staff
    responsible for the

167

Table of Contents   

implementation and monitoring of operational risk management
    programs throughout the company. Corporate and business unit
    operational risk teams work closely throughout the design and
    implementation effort to ensure that roles and responsibilities
    are properly identified and staffed, and that programs are
    effectively integrated into standard business practices. In
    addition, the ORO function works closely with our SOX Finance
    Team and Chief Compliance Officer to coordinate implementation
    efforts and reinforce new operational discipline frameworks
    within the company.

OFHEO s September 2004 interim report on its special
    examination concluded that we had experienced breakdowns in
    operational controls that contributed to our accounting failures
    and safety and soundness problems. Paul Weiss s independent
    investigation into the issues raised in OFHEO s interim
    report affirmed this conclusion. In 2005, we engaged an
    independent firm to assess our existing operational risk
    management capabilities and identify gaps in skill sets,
    processes and other elements. The results of this assessment
    identified several deficiencies in our operational risk
    management structure that we have been working to remediate. For
    a description of the material weaknesses in our internal control
    over financial reporting relating to our operational controls
    and operational risk management, see
     Item 9A Controls and Procedures. 

To remedy the deficiencies in our operational risk management
    process, we have developed new policies for managing operational
    risks and an overall operational risk management framework to
    identify, measure, monitor and manage operational risks across
    the company. We are in the initial stage of a multi-year program
    to implement our new operational risk management framework. In
    November 2006, we submitted a detailed three-year plan on the
    design and implementation of this framework to OFHEO as required
    by our consent order with OFHEO. Our operational risk management
    framework is based on the Basel Committee guidance on sound
    practices for the management of operational risk broadly adopted
    by U.S. commercial banks comparable in size to Fannie Mae.
    The framework incorporates elements such as the monitoring of
    operational loss events, tracking of key risk indicators, use of
    common terminology to describe risks and self-assessments of
    risks and controls in place to mitigate operational risks. We
    have recently hired several new senior officers with significant
    expertise in operational risk management to implement this new
    framework.

In addition to the corporate operational risk oversight
    function, we also maintain programs for the management of our
    exposure to mortgage fraud, breaches in information security and
    external disruptions to business continuity, as outlined below.

Mortgage
    Fraud   

We implemented a mortgage fraud policy and program in 2005.
    OFHEO issued a regulation in July 2005 on the detection and
    reporting of mortgage fraud that required us to establish
    adequate and efficient internal controls and procedures and an
    operational training program to assure an effective system to
    detect and report mortgage fraud or possible mortgage fraud. We
    have operated in compliance with this regulation since its
    effective date in August 2005.

As part of our mortgage fraud program, we assist our lender
    customers in preventing the origination of fraudulent loans,
    including through the use of a series of technology services
    provided in conjunction with our automated underwriting
    technology that alerts lenders to possible fraud at loan
    origination. We maintain contracts with our lender customers
    that require them to represent and warrant that loans being sold
    meet the requirements of our selling and servicing guides, and
    to repurchase loans sold or delivered to us when mortgage fraud
    is identified. We also carry insurance to provide further
    coverage in the event of failure of the lender to perform under
    fraudulent circumstances. We continue to work to improve our
    internal controls and procedures relating to the detection and
    reporting of mortgage fraud.

Information
    Security   

Recognizing the importance and sensitivity of our information
    assets, we have established an information security program
    designed to protect the security and privacy of confidential
    information, including non-public personal information and
    sensitive business data. Our current information security
    program was launched in late 2003 to address acknowledged
    industry-wide security concerns in areas such as access
    management, change management, secure application development
    and system monitoring.

168

Table of Contents   

Our security infrastructure is designed for the protection of
    sensitive information assets, and includes sophisticated network
    defenses and software designed to prevent hackers, spam, virus,
    phishing and other types of cyber attack, while our information
    security practices are intended to minimize risks due to process
    failure or misuse. We employ several firms specializing in
    information security assessment to uncover control gaps and
    risks to our information assets. We acknowledge the constant
    need to update and improve our defenses in response to changes
    in the threat environment.

We continue to work to improve our information security program,
    with the implementation of additional controls to protect our
    confidential data. These have included increased information
    security and privacy assessment and monitoring within our
    business units, a multi-year effort to improve access
    management, encryption of data on our employees  computers,
    as well as improved tools to monitor and block information loss
    from within our network, email and other communication systems.

Business
    Continuity and Crisis Management   

Our Operational Risk Oversight function has established business
    continuity and crisis management policies and programs, with
    execution of these programs implemented by our technology,
    operations, human resources and facilities functions in concert
    with the business units that are responsible for the affected
    processes and business applications. These policies and programs
    are designed to ensure that our critical business functions
    continue to operate under emergency conditions.

We have installed redundant systems within each business
    critical system, as well as redundant systems in two
    geographically separate data centers. These redundant systems
    are designed to provide continuity of operations for up to one
    week without significant loss of service to constituents or
    significant loss of revenue. We also have developed longer-term
    recovery plans. In addition, we have implemented strategies for
    access to critical business systems by employees and staff, such
    as alternate work facilities in geographically diverse locations
    for our back office and wire transfer functions. We have also
    established redundant communications systems for external
    partners and customers. For staff functions that are considered
    most critical, such as cash wire operations and securities
    settlements, we have instituted multi-site, simultaneous
    operations from three separate locations. Dual-site market room
    activities are conducted on a quarterly basis for front office
    functions. We recently successfully completed a disaster
    recovery test of critical operations using a recently
    constructed alternate data center.

To enable recovery from large-scale, catastrophic events, we
    copy all production data to backup media on a real-time or
    nightly basis. The data is transported and stored in multiple
    locations, including an offsite storage facility located out of
    the region. In addition, a limited tertiary operating site is
    available out of the region. The tertiary site complies with the
    sound practices established by the Federal Reserve Board, Office
    of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the SEC for resiliency
    of key U.S. financial institutions, and is designed to
    enable us to fulfill our critical obligations until automated
    processing is able to resume.

Our business continuity program is subject to regulatory review
    by OFHEO.

LIQUIDITY
    AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT  

Liquidity is essential to our business. We actively manage our
    liquidity and capital position with the objective of preserving
    stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of cash to meet all
    of our current and future operating financial commitments and
    regulatory capital requirements. We obtain the funds we need to
    operate our business primarily from the proceeds we receive from
    the issuance of debt. We seek to maintain sufficient excess
    liquidity in the event that factors, whether internal or
    external to our business, temporarily prevent us from issuing
    debt in the capital markets.

Liquidity  

Liquidity
    Risk Management   

Liquidity risk is the risk to our earnings and capital that
    would arise from an inability to meet our cash obligations in a
    timely manner. Because liquidity is essential to our business,
    we have adopted a comprehensive liquidity risk policy that is
    designed to provide us with sufficient flexibility to address
    both liquidity

169

Table of Contents   

events specific to our business and market-wide liquidity
    events. Our liquidity risk policy governs our management of
    liquidity risk and outlines our methods for measuring and
    monitoring liquidity risk. Our liquidity risk policy, which has
    been approved by our Board of Directors, outlines the roles and
    responsibilities for managing liquidity risk within the company.
    Our Capital Markets group is responsible for monitoring and
    managing our liquidity risk, with oversight provided by the
    Chief Risk Office, several management-level committees and the
    Risk Policy and Capital Committee of the Board of Directors.

We conduct our daily liquidity management activities to achieve
    the goals of our liquidity risk policy. The primary tools that
    we employ for liquidity management include the following:

daily monitoring and reporting of our liquidity position;

daily forecasting of our ability to meet our liquidity needs
    over a
     90-day 
    period without relying upon the issuance of unsecured debt;

daily monitoring of market and economic factors that may impact
    our liquidity;

a defined escalation process for bringing any liquidity issues
    or concerns that may arise to the attention of higher levels of
    our management;

routine testing of our ability to rely upon identified sources
    of liquidity;

periodic reporting to management and the Board of Directors
    regarding our liquidity position;

periodic review and testing of our liquidity management controls
    by our Internal Audit department;

maintaining unencumbered mortgage assets that are available as
    collateral for secured borrowings pursuant to repurchase
    agreements or for sale; and

maintaining an investment portfolio of liquid non-mortgage
    assets that are readily marketable or have short-term maturities
    so that we can quickly and easily convert these assets into cash.

Sources
    and Uses of Cash   

We manage our cash position on a daily basis.

Our primary source of cash is proceeds from the issuance of our
    debt. Our other sources of cash currently consist primarily of:

principal and interest payments received on our mortgage
    portfolio assets;

principal and interest payments received on our liquid
    investments;

borrowings under secured and unsecured intraday funding lines of
    credit we have established with several large financial
    institutions;

sales of mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and liquid
    assets;

borrowings against mortgage-related securities and other
    investment securities we hold pursuant to repurchase agreements
    and loan agreements;

guaranty fees earned on Fannie Mae MBS;

mortgage insurance counterparty payments; and

net receipts on derivative instruments.

Our primary uses of cash currently consist primarily of:

the repayment of matured, redeemed and repurchased debt;

the purchase of mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and
    other investments;

interest payments on outstanding debt;

net payments on derivative counterparty agreements;

170

Table of Contents   

the pledging of collateral under derivative instruments;

administrative expenses;

the payment of federal income taxes;

losses incurred in connection with our Fannie Mae MBS guaranty
    obligations; and

the payment of dividends on our common and preferred stock.

Debt
    Funding   

Because our primary source of cash is proceeds from the issuance
    of our debt, we depend on our continuing ability to issue debt
    securities in the capital markets to meet our cash requirements.
    We issue a variety of non-callable and callable debt securities
    in the domestic and international capital markets in a wide
    range of maturities to meet our large and continuous funding
    needs. Our Capital Markets group is responsible for the issuance
    of debt securities to meet our funding needs. Table 39 below
    provides a summary of our debt activity for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Table 40 below shows our
    outstanding short-term borrowings for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

Table
    39:  Debt Activity  

(1)   

Excludes the activity of debt from
    consolidations.

(2)   

Includes the activity of Federal
    funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to
    repurchase.

(3)   

Represents the face amount at
    issuance or redemption and does not include the effect of
    currency adjustments, debt basis adjustments or amortization of
    discounts, premiums and other deferred price adjustments.

(4)   

Represents all payments on debt,
    including regularly scheduled principal payments, payments at
    maturity, payments as the result of a call and payments for any
    other repurchases.

171

Table of Contents   

Table
    40:  Outstanding Short-Term Borrowings  

(1)   

Includes discounts, premiums and
    other deferred price adjustments.

(2)   

Average amount outstanding during
    the year has been calculated using month-end balances.

(3)   

Maximum outstanding represents the
    highest month-end outstanding balance during the year.

172

Table of Contents   

For information regarding our outstanding long-term debt as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, refer to  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements Note 9, Short-term
    Borrowings and Long-term Debt. 

We are one of the world s largest issuers of unsecured debt
    securities in terms of the amount of unsecured debt we issue. We
    issue debt on a regular basis in significant amounts in the
    capital markets and have a diversified funding base of domestic
    and international investors. Purchasers of our debt securities
    include fund managers, commercial banks, pension funds,
    insurance companies, foreign central banks, state and local
    governments, and retail investors. Purchasers of our debt
    securities are also geographically diversified, with a
    significant portion of our investors located in the United
    States, Europe and Asia. The diversity of our debt investors
    enhances our financial flexibility and limits our dependence on
    any one source of funding. Our status as a GSE and our current
     AAA  (or its equivalent) senior long-term unsecured
    debt credit ratings are critical to our ability to continuously
    access the debt capital markets to borrow at attractive rates.
    The U.S. government does not guarantee our debt, directly
    or indirectly, and our debt does not constitute a debt or
    obligation of the U.S. government.

Our sources of liquidity have remained adequate to meet both our
    short-term and long-term funding needs, and we anticipate that
    they will remain adequate in 2007. Due to the reduction in the
    size of our mortgage portfolio subsequent to December 31,
    2004 pursuant to our capital restoration plan, our debt funding
    requirements have been lower in 2005 and 2006 than in 2002, 2003
    and 2004. As of December 31, 2004, we had total debt
    outstanding of $953.1 billion, as compared to total debt
    outstanding of $753.2 billion as of September 30,
    2006. However, we remain an active issuer of short-term and
    long-term debt securities. Our short-term and long-term funding
    needs during 2007 are generally expected to be consistent with
    our needs during 2005 and 2006, and with the uses of cash
    described above under  Sources and Uses of Cash.  As
    described below under  Capital Management Capital
    Activity OFHEO Oversight of Our Capital Activity, 
    pursuant to our May 2006 consent order with OFHEO, we are
    currently not permitted to increase our net mortgage portfolio
    assets above the amount shown in our minimum capital report to
    OFHEO as of December 31, 2005 ($727.75 billion). We
    expect that, over the long term, our funding needs and sources
    of liquidity will remain relatively consistent with current
    needs and sources. We may increase our issuance of debt in
    future years if we decide to increase our purchase of mortgage
    assets following the modification or expiration of the current
    limitation on the size of our mortgage portfolio.

We have experienced no limitations on our ability to borrow
    funds through the issuance of debt securities in the capital
    markets and do not anticipate any change in our ability to do so
    in the foreseeable future. Significant changes in our current
    regulatory status, however, could adversely affect our access to
    some or all debt investors and lead to a reduction in our credit
    ratings, thereby potentially increasing our debt funding costs
    and reducing the amount of debt that we can issue at any given
    time. Other factors that could negatively impact our ability to
    issue debt securities at attractive rates include significant
    changes in interest rates, increased interest rate volatility, a
    significant adverse change in our financial condition or
    financial results, significant events relating to our business
    or industry, a significant change in the public s
    perception of the risks to and financial prospects of our
    business or our industry, regulatory constraints, disruptions in
    the capital markets and general economic conditions in the
    United States or abroad. Refer to  Item 1A Risk
    Factors  for a discussion of the risks relating to our
    ability to issue debt in sufficient quantities and at attractive
    rates, the risks associated with a reduction in our current
    credit ratings and the risks associated with proposed changes in
    the regulation of our business. On June 13, 2006, the
    U.S. Department of the Treasury announced that it would
    undertake a review of its process for approving our issuances of
    debt, which could adversely impact our flexibility in issuing
    debt securities in the future. We cannot predict whether the
    outcome of this review will materially impact our current debt
    issuance activities.

Change
    in the Federal Reserve Board s Payments System Risk
    Policy   

On July 20, 2006, the Federal Reserve Banks implemented
    changes to the Federal Reserve Board s  Policy
    Statement on Payments System Risk.  The changes pertain to
    the processing of principal and interest payments, via the
    Fedwire system, for securities issued by GSEs and certain
    international organizations, including us.

Prior to July 2006, the Federal Reserve Bank exempted us from
    overdraft fees relating to the processing of interest and
    redemption payments on our debt and Fannie Mae MBS. We were
    permitted to overdraw our

173

Table of Contents   

account at the Federal Reserve Bank for these payments and would
    make periodic payments throughout the business day until our
    account balance was zero. Under the revised policy, we are now
    required to fund interest and redemption payments on our debt
    and Fannie Mae MBS before the Federal Reserve Banks, acting as
    our fiscal agent, will execute the payments on our behalf. We
    compensate the Federal Reserve Banks for this service.

Because we receive funds and make payments throughout each
    business day, we have taken steps, including revising our
    funding strategies, to ensure that we will have access to funds
    in a timely manner to meet our payment obligations. We
    established and periodically may use secured and unsecured
    intraday funding lines of credit with several large financial
    institutions. We are currently funding security holder payments
    on a daily basis and are fully compliant with the revised
    Federal Reserve policy.

Credit
    Ratings and Risk Ratings   

Our ability to borrow at attractive rates is highly dependent
    upon our credit ratings. Our senior unsecured debt (both
    long-term and short-term), qualifying benchmark subordinated
    debt and preferred stock are rated and continuously monitored by
    Standard & Poor s, Moody s and Fitch, each of
    which is a nationally recognized statistical rating
    organization. Table 41 below sets forth the credit ratings
    issued by each of these rating agencies of our long-term and
    short-term senior unsecured debt, qualifying benchmark
    subordinated debt and preferred stock as of December 5,
    2006.

Table
    41:  Fannie Mae Debt Credit Ratings  

Senior Long-Term 

Senior Short-Term 

Benchmark 

Unsecured Debt 

Unsecured Debt 

Subordinated Debt 

Preferred Stock 

Standard & Poor s

AAA

A 1+

AA 

(1) 

AA 

(1) 

Moody s Investors Service

Aaa

P 1

Aa2

(2) 

Aa3

(2) 

Fitch, Inc

AAA

F1+

AA 

(3) 

A+

(4) 

(1)   

On September 23, 2004,
    Standard & Poor s placed our preferred stock and
    subordinated debt ratings on  credit watch negative. 

(2)   

On September 28, 2004,
    Moody s placed our preferred stock and subordinated debt
    ratings on a  negative outlook.  On December 15,
    2005, Moody s confirmed our preferred stock and
    subordinated debt ratings with a  stable outlook. 

(3)   

On September 29, 2004, Fitch
    downgraded our subordinated debt rating from  AA  to
     AA  . On December 23, 2004, Fitch placed
    our subordinated debt rating on  rating watch
    negative. 

(4)   

On September 29, 2004, Fitch
    downgraded our preferred stock rating from  AA  to
     AA  . On December 23, 2004, Fitch
    downgraded our preferred stock rating from  AA  
    to  A+  and placed our preferred stock rating on
     rating watch negative. 

Pursuant to our September 1, 2005 agreement with OFHEO, we
    agreed to seek to obtain a rating, which will be continuously
    monitored by at least one nationally recognized statistical
    rating organization, that assesses, among other things, the
    independent financial strength or  risk to the
    government  of Fannie Mae operating under its authorizing
    legislation but without assuming a cash infusion or
    extraordinary support of the government in the event of a
    financial crisis. We also agreed to provide periodic public
    disclosure of this rating.

Standard & Poor s  risk to the
    government  rating for us as of December 5, 2006 was
    AA  and this rating has been on credit watch negative
    since September 23, 2004. Standard & Poor s
    continually monitors this rating.

Moody s  Bank Financial Strength Rating  for us
    as of December 5, 2006 was B+ with a stable outlook. This
    rating was downgraded from A  on March 28, 2005.
    Moody s continually monitors this rating.

We do not have any covenants in our existing debt agreements
    that would be violated by a downgrade in our credit ratings. To
    date, we have not experienced any limitations in our ability to
    access the capital markets due to a credit ratings downgrade.
    See  Item 1A Risk Factors  for a discussion
    of the risks associated with a reduction in our credit ratings.

174

Table of Contents   

Liquidity
    Contingency Plan   

Our Liquidity Risk Policy includes a contingency plan in the
    event that factors, whether internal or external to our
    business, temporarily compromise our ability to access capital
    through normal channels. Our contingency plan provides for
    alternative sources of liquidity that would allow us to meet all
    of our cash obligations for 90 days without relying upon
    the issuance of unsecured debt. If our access to the capital
    markets becomes impaired, our contingency plan designates our
    unencumbered mortgage portfolio as our primary source of
    liquidity. Our unencumbered mortgage portfolio consists of
    unencumbered mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities that
    could be pledged as collateral for borrowing in the market for
    mortgage repurchase agreements or sold to generate additional
    funds. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, substantially all
    of our mortgage portfolio would have been eligible to be pledged
    as collateral under repurchase agreements. As of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, $1.7 billion and
    $5.1 billion, respectively, of the mortgage-related
    securities held in our portfolio had been pledged as collateral
    under repurchase agreements.

Our liquid investment portfolio is also a source of liquidity in
    the event that we cannot access the capital markets. Our liquid
    investment portfolio consists primarily of high-quality
    non-mortgage investments that are readily marketable or have
    short-term maturities. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, we
    had approximately $55.1 billion and $67.1 billion,
    respectively, in liquid assets, net of any cash and cash
    equivalents pledged as collateral. Our investments in
    non-mortgage securities, which account for the majority of our
    liquid assets, totaled $43.9 billion and $46.8 billion
    as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
    Approximately 93% and 88% of our non-mortgage securities as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, had a credit
    rating of A (or its equivalent) or higher, based on the lowest
    of Standard & Poor s, Moody s or Fitch
    ratings.

OFHEO
    Supervision   

Pursuant to its role as our safety and soundness regulator,
    OFHEO monitors our liquidity management practices and audits our
    liquidity position on a continuous basis. On September 1,
    2005, we entered into an agreement with OFHEO that formalized
    and updated the voluntary initiatives that we announced in
    October 2000 to enhance market discipline, liquidity and
    capital. Pursuant to this agreement, we agreed to certain
    commitments pertaining to management of our liquidity, including:

complying with principles of sound liquidity management
    consistent with industry practice;

maintenance of a portfolio of highly liquid assets;

maintenance of a functional contingency plan providing for at
    least three months  liquidity without relying upon the
    issuance of unsecured debt; and

periodic testing of our contingency plan in consultation with an
    OFHEO examiner.

Each of these commitments is addressed in our Liquidity Risk
    Policy described above. We further agreed to periodic public
    disclosure regarding our compliance with the plan for
    maintaining three months  liquidity and meeting the
    commitment for periodic testing. We believe we were in
    compliance with our commitment to maintain and test our
    functional contingency plan as of September 30, 2006. We
    expect that OFHEO will finalize its review of our implementation
    of these commitments once revised policies have been completed
    in early 2007.

175

Table of Contents   

Contractual
    Obligations   

Table 42 summarizes our expectation as to the effect of our
    minimum debt payments and other material noncancelable
    contractual obligations as of December 31, 2004 on our
    liquidity and cash flows in future periods. Our current
    contractual obligations as of the date of this report are
    different than the contractual obligations as of
    December 31, 2004 presented in the table below, primarily
    with respect to our debt obligations. As of December 31,
    2004, we had total debt outstanding of $953.1 billion, as
    compared to total debt outstanding of $753.2 billion as of
    September 30, 2006.

Table
    42:  Contractual Obligations  

(1)   

Represents the carrying amount of
    our long-term debt assuming payments are made in full at
    maturity. Amounts exclude approximately $8.5 billion in
    long-term debt obligations attributable to consolidated VIEs.
    Amounts include net premium and deferred price adjustments of
    $11.2 billion.

(2)   

Excludes contractual interest on
    long-term debt obligations attributable to consolidated VIEs.

(3)   

Includes certain premises and
    equipment leases.

(4)   

Includes on- and off-balance sheet
    commitments to purchase loans and mortgage-related securities.

(5)   

Includes only unconditional
    purchase obligations that are subject to a cancellation penalty
    for certain telecom services, software and computer services,
    and agreements. Excludes arrangements that may be cancelled
    without penalty.

(6)   

Excludes risk management derivative
    transactions that may require cash settlement in future periods
    and our obligations to stand ready to perform under our
    guaranties relating to Fannie Mae MBS and other financial
    guaranties, because the amount and timing of payments under
    these arrangements are generally contingent upon the occurrence
    of future events.

(7)   

Represents a $400 million
    civil penalty to the U.S. government pursuant to
    May 23, 2006 settlements with the SEC and OFHEO. This
    penalty is included in the consolidated balance sheet under
     Other Liabilities. 

(8)   

Includes future cash payments due
    under our contractual obligations to fund LIHTC
    partnerships that are unconditional and legally binding, as well
    as cash received as collateral from derivative counterparties,
    both of which are included in the consolidated balance sheets
    under  Other liabilities. 

Cash
    Flows   

Cash
    Flows for the Year Ended December 31, 2004  

During the year ended December 31, 2004, cash and cash
    equivalents decreased by $740 million, or 22%, to
    $2.7 billion as of December 31, 2004 as compared to
    the prior year.

We generated net cash of $41.6 billion in operating
    activities in 2004, primarily due to a net decrease in trading
    securities and net income. Our cash generated by operating
    activities was partially offset by purchases of HFS loans.

176

Table of Contents   

We used net cash of $16.8 billion in investing activities
    in 2004, primarily due to advances to lenders and purchases of
    AFS securities and HFI loans. The cash we used in investing
    activities was partially offset by proceeds we received from
    maturities of AFS securities and repayments of HFI loans.

We used net cash of $25.5 billion in financing activities
    in 2004, primarily for the redemption of short-term and
    long-term debt. The cash we used in financing activities was
    offset primarily by issuances of our short-term and long-term
    debt.

Cash
    Flows for the Year Ended December 31, 2003  

During the year ended December 31, 2003, our cash and cash
    equivalents increased by $1.7 billion, or 97%, to
    $3.4 billion as of December 31, 2003 as compared to
    the prior year.

We generated net cash of $58.2 billion in operating
    activities in 2003, primarily due to a net decrease in trading
    securities and net income. Our cash generated by operating
    activities was partially offset by purchases of HFS loans.

We used net cash of $152.7 billion in investing activities
    in 2003, primarily due to advances to lenders and purchases of
    AFS securities and HFI loans. Our cash used in investing
    activities was partially offset by proceeds we received from
    maturities and sales of AFS securities and repayments of HFI
    loans.

We raised net cash of $96.2 billion in financing activities
    in 2003, primarily by issuing short-term and long-term debt. Our
    cash provided by financing activities was partially offset
    primarily by redemption of short-term and long-term debt.

Cash
    Flows for the Year Ended December 31, 2002  

During the year ended December 31, 2002, our cash and cash
    equivalents increased by $681 million, or 65%, to
    $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2002 as compared to
    the prior year.

We generated net cash of $43.6 billion in operating
    activities, primarily due to a net decrease in trading
    securities and net income. Our cash generated by operating
    activities was partially offset by purchases of HFS loans.

We used net cash of $113.6 billion in investing activities
    in 2002, primarily due to advances to lenders and purchases of
    AFS securities and HFI loans. Our cash used in investing
    activities was partially offset by proceeds we received from
    maturities of AFS securities and repayments of HFI loans.

We raised net cash of $70.6 billion in financing activities
    in 2002, primarily by issuing short-term and long-term debt. Our
    cash provided by financing activities was partially offset
    primarily by redemption of short-term and long-term debt.

Capital
    Management  

Our objective in managing capital is to maximize long-term
    stockholder value through the pursuit of business opportunities
    that provide attractive returns while maintaining capital at
    levels sufficient to ensure compliance with both regulatory and
    internal capital requirements.

Capital
    Adequacy Requirements   

We are subject to capital adequacy requirements established by
    the 1992 Act. The statutory capital framework incorporates two
    different quantitative assessments of capital both a
    minimum capital requirement and a risk-based capital
    requirement. While the minimum capital requirement is
    ratio-based, the risk-based capital requirement is based on
    simulated stress test performance. Pursuant to the 1992 Act, we
    are required to maintain sufficient capital to meet both of
    these requirements in order to be deemed  adequately
    capitalized.  In addition, pursuant to our May 2006 consent
    order with OFHEO, we are currently required to maintain a 30%
    capital surplus over our statutory minimum capital requirement,
    which is referred to as the OFHEO-directed minimum capital
    requirement. We are subject to continuous examination by OFHEO
    to ensure we meet these capital adequacy requirements.

177

Table of Contents   

Statutory
    Minimum Capital Requirement  

OFHEO s ratio-based minimum capital standard ties our
    capital requirements to the size of our book of business. For
    purposes of the minimum capital requirement, we are considered
    adequately capitalized if our core capital equals or exceeds our
    minimum capital requirement. Core capital is defined by OFHEO
    and represents the sum of the stated value of our outstanding
    common stock (common stock less treasury stock), the stated
    value of our outstanding non-cumulative perpetual preferred
    stock, our paid-in capital and our retained earnings, as
    determined in accordance with GAAP. Our minimum capital
    requirement is generally equal to the sum of:

2.50% of on-balance sheet assets;

0.45% of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding Fannie Mae
    MBS held by third parties; and

up to 0.45% of other off-balance sheet obligations.

Each quarter, OFHEO publishes our standing relative to both the
    statutory minimum capital requirement and, commencing for the
    quarter ended September 30, 2005, the OFHEO-directed
    minimum capital requirement as part of its capital
    classification announcement. For a description of the amounts by
    which our core capital exceeded or was less than our statutory
    minimum capital requirement as of December 31, 2004, 2003
    and 2002, see Table 43 under  Capital Classification
    Measures  below.

Statutory
    Risk-Based Capital Requirement  

OFHEO s risk-based capital standard ties our capital
    requirements to the risk in our book of business, as measured by
    a stress test model. The stress test simulates our financial
    performance over a ten-year period of severe economic conditions
    characterized by both extreme interest rate movements and
    mortgage default rates. Simulation results indicate the amount
    of capital required to survive this prolonged period of economic
    stress absent new business or active risk management action. In
    addition to this amount determined by the stress test, the
    risk-based capital requirement includes an additional 30%
    surcharge to cover unspecified management and operations risks.

Each quarter, OFHEO runs a detailed profile of our book of
    business through the stress test simulation model. The model
    generates cash flows and financial statements to evaluate our
    risk and measure our capital adequacy during the ten-year stress
    horizon. Our total capital base is used to meet our risk-based
    capital requirement. Total capital is defined by OFHEO as the
    sum of core capital plus the total allowance for loan losses and
    reserve for guaranty losses in connection with Fannie Mae MBS,
    less the specific loss allowance (that is, the allowance
    required on individually-impaired loans). As part of its
    quarterly capital classification announcement, OFHEO makes these
    stress test results publicly available. For a description of the
    amounts by which our total capital exceeded our statutory
    risk-based capital requirement as of December 31, 2004,
    2003 and 2002, see Table 43 under  Capital Classification
    Measures  below.

Capital
    Restoration Plan and OFHEO-Directed Minimum Capital
    Requirement  

As noted in  Restatement  above, OFHEO concluded in
    its September 2004 interim report on its special examination
    that we had misapplied GAAP relating to hedge accounting and the
    amortization of purchase premiums and discounts on securities
    and loans and on other deferred charges. The SEC s Office
    of the Chief Accountant affirmed OFHEO s conclusion and, on
    December 15, 2004, advised us that we should restate our
    financial statements filed with the SEC to eliminate the use of
    hedge accounting in order to be consistent with GAAP. At that
    time, we estimated that the disallowed hedge accounting
    treatments resulted in a $9 billion cumulative reduction in
    our core capital as of September 30, 2004. As a result, on
    December 21, 2004, OFHEO classified us as significantly
    undercapitalized as of September 30, 2004 and directed us
    to submit a capital restoration plan that would provide for
    compliance with our statutory minimum capital requirement plus a
    surplus of 30% over the statutory minimum capital requirement.
    Pursuant to OFHEO s directive, we submitted a capital
    restoration plan which indicated our intention to achieve a 30%
    capital surplus over our minimum capital requirement by
    September 30, 2005. The capital restoration plan was
    accepted by OFHEO on February 17, 2005.

178

Table of Contents   

OFHEO announced on November 1, 2005 that we had achieved a
    30% surplus over minimum capital at September 30, 2005. In
    addition to generating capital through retained earnings, we
    achieved this capital surplus by taking the following actions
    pursuant to our capital restoration plan:

significantly reducing the size of our investment portfolio,
    through both normal mortgage liquidations and selected sales of
    mortgage assets, which reduced the amount of assets in the
    consolidated balance sheets and thereby reduced our overall
    minimum capital requirements;

issuing $5.0 billion in non-cumulative preferred stock in
    December 2004;

reducing our quarterly dividend rate by 50% on January 18,
    2005, from $0.52 per share of common stock to
    $0.26 per share of common stock; and

canceling our plans to build major new corporate facilities in
    Southwest Washington, DC and undertaking other cost-cutting
    efforts.

Under our May 23, 2006 consent order with OFHEO, we agreed
    to continue our commitment to maintain a 30% capital surplus
    over our statutory minimum capital requirement until such time
    as the Director of OFHEO determines that the requirement should
    be modified or allowed to expire, considering factors such as
    resolution of accounting and internal control issues. OFHEO
    actively monitors our compliance with the capital restoration
    plan. We believe that we continue to be in compliance with the
    plan as of the date of this filing.

Statutory
    Critical Capital Requirement  

Our critical capital level is the amount of core capital below
    which we would be classified as critically undercapitalized and
    generally would be required to be placed in conservatorship. Our
    critical capital requirement is generally equal to the sum of:

1.25% of on-balance sheet assets;

0.25% of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding Fannie Mae
    MBS held by third parties; and

up to 0.25% of other off-balance sheet obligations.

For a description of the amounts by which our core capital
    exceeded our statutory critical capital requirement as of
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Table 43 under
     Capital Classification Measures  below.

179

Table of Contents   

Capital
    Classification Measures  

The table below shows our core capital, total capital and other
    capital classification measures as of December 31, 2004,
    2003 and 2002.

Table
    43:  Regulatory Capital Surplus/Deficit  

(1)   

Except for required risk-based
    capital amounts, all amounts represent estimates which will be
    resubmitted to OFHEO for their certification. Required
    risk-based capital amounts represent previously announced
    results by OFHEO. OFHEO may determine that results require
    restatement in the future based upon analysis provided by us.

(2)   

The sum of (a) the stated
    value of our outstanding common stock (common stock less
    treasury stock); (b) the stated value of our outstanding
    non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock; (c) our paid-in
    capital; and (d) our retained earnings. Core capital
    excludes AOCI.

(3)   

Generally, the sum of
    (a) 2.50% of on-balance sheet assets; (b) 0.45% of the
    unpaid principal balance of outstanding Fannie Mae MBS held by
    third parties; and (c) up to 0.45% of other off-balance
    sheet obligations, which may be adjusted by the Director of
    OFHEO under certain circumstances (See 12 CFR 1750.4 for
    existing adjustments made by the Director of OFHEO).

(4)   

Defined as the surplus (deficit) of
    core capital over required minimum capital expressed as a
    percentage of required minimum capital.

(5)   

The sum of (a) core capital
    and (b) the total allowance for loan losses and reserve for
    guaranty losses, less (c) the specific loss allowance (that
    is, the allowance required on individually-impaired loans). The
    specific loss allowance totaled $63 million,
    $68 million and $40 million at December 31, 2004,
    2003 and 2002, respectively.

(6)   

Defined as the amount of total
    capital required to be held to absorb projected losses flowing
    from future adverse interest rate and credit risk conditions
    specified by statute (see 12 CFR 1750.13 for conditions),
    plus 30% mandated by statute to cover management and operations
    risk.

(7)   

Defined as the surplus of total
    capital over required risk-based capital expressed as a
    percentage of risk-based capital.

(8)   

Generally, the sum of
    (a) 1.25% of on-balance sheet assets; (b) 0.25% of the
    unpaid principal balance of outstanding Fannie Mae MBS held by
    third parties; and (c) up to 0.25% of other off-balance
    sheet obligations, which may be adjusted by the Director of
    OFHEO under certain circumstances.

(9)   

Defined as the surplus of core
    capital over critical capital expressed as a percentage of
    critical capital.

On May 19, 2005, OFHEO classified us as significantly
    undercapitalized as of December 31, 2004 and adequately
    capitalized as of March 31, 2005. For each subsequent
    quarter through June 30, 2006 (the most recent quarter for
    which OFHEO has published its capital classification), we have
    been classified by OFHEO as adequately capitalized. On
    September 29, 2006, OFHEO announced that we were classified
    as adequately capitalized as of June 30, 2006. Our core
    capital of $42.0 billion as of June 30, 2006 exceeded
    our statutory minimum capital requirement by $12.6 billion,
    or 42.9%, and our OFHEO-directed minimum capital

180

Table of Contents   

requirement by $3.8 billion, or 9.9%; and our total capital
    of $42.9 billion as of June 30, 2006 exceeded our
    statutory risk-based capital requirement by $16.6 billion,
    or 62.9%. Because we have not yet prepared audited consolidated
    financial statements for any periods after December 31,
    2004, OFHEO s capital classifications for periods after
    December 31, 2004 are based on our estimates of our
    financial condition as of those periods and remain subject to
    revision.

Capital
    Management Framework   

Our capital management practices are intended to ensure ongoing
    compliance with not only our regulatory capital requirements,
    but also internal economic capital requirements. Our internal
    economic capital requirements represent management s view
    of the capital required to support our risk posture and are used
    to guide capital deployment decisions to maximize long-term
    stockholder value. Our economic capital framework relies upon
    both stress test and
     value-at-risk 
    analyses that measure capital solvency across time and to
    current market value exposures. We currently target a combined
    corporate economic capital requirement that is less than our
    regulatory capital requirements.

To ensure compliance with each of our regulatory capital
    requirements, we maintain different levels of capital surplus
    for each capital requirement. The optimal surplus amount for
    each capital measure is directly tied to the volatility of the
    capital requirement and related core capital base. Because it is
    explicitly tied to risk, the statutory risk-based capital
    requirement tends to be more volatile than the ratio-based
    minimum capital requirement. Quarterly changes in economic
    conditions (such as interest rates, spreads and home prices) can
    materially impact the calculated risk-based capital requirement.
    As a consequence, we generally strive to maintain a larger
    surplus over the risk-based capital requirement to ensure
    continued compliance.

We are able to reasonably estimate our minimum capital
    requirement. However, because changes in the fair value of our
    derivatives may result in significant fluctuations in our
    capital holdings from period to period, the amount of our
    reported capital holdings at each period end is difficult to
    anticipate. Accordingly, we target a surplus above the statutory
    minimum capital requirement and OFHEO-directed minimum capital
    requirement to accommodate a wide range of possible valuation
    changes that might adversely impact our core capital base.

Capital
    Activity   

OFHEO
    Oversight of Our Capital Activity  

Our capital requirements as set forth by the Charter Act and as
    administered by OFHEO may restrict the ability of our Board of
    Directors to pay dividends, repurchase our preferred or common
    stock, or make any other capital distributions in the following
    circumstances:

if a capital distribution would decrease our total capital below
    the risk-based capital requirement or our core capital below the
    minimum capital requirement, we may not make the distribution
    without the approval of OFHEO;

if we do not meet the risk-based capital requirement but do meet
    the minimum capital requirement, we may not make any capital
    distribution that would cause us to fail to meet the minimum
    capital requirement; and

if we meet neither the risk-based capital requirement nor the
    minimum capital requirement, but do meet the critical capital
    requirement established under the 1992 Act, we may make a
    capital distribution only if, immediately after making the
    distribution, we would still meet the critical capital
    requirement and the Director of OFHEO approves the distribution
    after determining that specified statutory conditions are
    satisfied.

In addition, in the May 2006 OFHEO consent order, we agreed to
    the following additional restrictions relating to our capital
    activity:

We must continue our commitment to maintain a 30% capital
    surplus over our statutory minimum capital requirement until
    such time as the Director of OFHEO determines that the
    requirement should be modified or allowed to expire, taking into
    account factors such as the resolution of accounting and
    internal control issues.

181

Table of Contents   

While the capital restoration plan is in effect, we must seek
    the approval of the Director of OFHEO before engaging in any
    transaction that could have the effect of reducing our capital
    surplus below an amount equal to 30% more than our statutory
    minimum capital requirement.

We must submit a written report to OFHEO detailing the rationale
    and process for any proposed capital distribution before making
    the distribution.

We are not permitted to increase our net mortgage portfolio
    assets above the amount shown in our minimum capital report to
    OFHEO as of December 31, 2005 ($727.75 billion),
    except in limited circumstances at the discretion of OFHEO. We
    will be subject to this limitation on portfolio growth until the
    Director of OFHEO has determined that expiration of the
    limitation is appropriate in light of information regarding: our
    capital; market liquidity issues; housing goals; risk management
    improvements; outside auditor s opinion that our
    consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material
    respects our financial condition; receipt of an unqualified
    opinion from an outside audit firm that our internal controls
    are effective pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002; or other relevant information.

Pursuant to the capital restoration plan, we provide a quarterly
    capital report to OFHEO.

Common
    Stock  

Shares of common stock outstanding, net of shares held in
    treasury, totaled approximately 971 million,
    969 million and 970 million as of December 31,
    2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. During 2005, 2004 and 2003,
    we issued 1.5 million, 5.8 million and
    2.8 million shares of common stock, respectively, from
    treasury for our employee benefit plans. We have not issued any
    common stock during 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 other than in
    connection with these plans. Our ability to issue common stock
    will be limited until we have returned to timely financial
    reporting.

In January 2003, our Board of Directors approved a share
    repurchase program (the  General Repurchase
    Authority ) authorizing us to repurchase up to 5% of our
    shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2002,
    as well as additional shares to offset stock issued, or expected
    to be issued, under our employee benefit plans. Under this
    General Repurchase Authority, which does not have a specified
    expiration date, we repurchased 7.2 million shares of
    common stock at a weighted average cost per share of $73.67 in
    2004 and 21.3 million shares of common stock at a weighted
    average cost per share of $65.28 in 2003. We have not
    repurchased any shares from the open market pursuant to this
    General Repurchase Authority since July 2004.

In November 2004, OFHEO agreed that our September 27, 2004
    agreement with OFHEO did not impair our ability to repurchase
    shares from employees under certain employee benefit plan
    transactions, including reacquiring shares for: payment of
    withholding taxes on the vesting of restricted stock; payment of
    withholding taxes due upon the exercise of employee stock
    options; and payment of the exercise price on stock options.
    OFHEO also approved our request to repurchase shares from
    employees in limited circumstances relating to financial
    hardship.

Since April 2005, we have prohibited all of our employees from
    engaging in purchases or sales of our securities except in
    limited circumstances relating to financial hardship. In
    November 2005, our Board of Directors authorized the creation of
    a stock repurchase program that permits us to repurchase up to
    $100 million of our shares from our non-officer employees,
    who are employees below the level of vice president. Under the
    program, we may repurchase shares weekly at fair market value
    only during the 30-trading day period following our quarterly
    filings on
     Form 12b-25 
    with the SEC. Officers and members of our Board of Directors are
    not permitted to participate in the program. On March 22,
    2006, OFHEO advised us that it had no objection to our
    proceeding with the program on the terms described to OFHEO. We
    implemented the program in May 2006. From May 31, 2006 to
    October 31, 2006, we have purchased an aggregate of
    38,202 shares of common stock from our employees under the
    program. The employee stock repurchase program does not have a
    specified expiration date.

Non-Cumulative
    Preferred Stock  

In December 2004, we sold two issues of non-cumulative preferred
    stock to institutional investors for aggregate proceeds of
    $5.0 billion, which included $2.5 billion in
    convertible preferred stock. These preferred stock

182

Table of Contents   

issuances represent the largest capital placement we have ever
    undertaken and were a key component of our capital restoration
    plan. We obtained net proceeds of $1.4 billion in 2003
    through non-cumulative preferred stock issuances. We did not
    redeem any preferred stock during 2005, 2004 or 2003 and to date
    have not redeemed any preferred stock in 2006. Our ability to
    issue preferred stock in the public market will be limited until
    we return to timely financial reporting. We have not issued
    preferred stock since December 31, 2004.

Subordinated
    Debt  

On September 1, 2005, we agreed with OFHEO to make specific
    commitments relating to the issuance of qualifying subordinated
    debt. These commitments replaced our October 2000 voluntary
    initiatives relating to the maintenance of qualifying
    subordinated debt. We agreed to issue qualifying subordinated
    debt, rated by at least two nationally recognized statistical
    rating organizations, in a quantity such that the sum of our
    total capital plus the outstanding balance of our qualifying
    subordinated debt equals or exceeds the sum of
    (1) outstanding Fannie Mae MBS held by third parties times
    0.45% and (2) total on-balance sheet assets times 4%. We
    must also take reasonable steps to maintain sufficient
    outstanding subordinated debt to promote liquidity and reliable
    market quotes on market values. We also agreed to provide
    periodic public disclosure of our compliance with these
    commitments, including a comparison of the quantities of
    subordinated debt and total capital to the levels required by
    our agreement with OFHEO.

Every six months, commencing January 1, 2006, we are
    required to submit to OFHEO a subordinated debt management plan
    that includes any issuance plans for the upcoming six months.
    Although it is not a component of core capital, subordinated
    debt supplements our equity capital. It is designed to provide a
    risk-absorbing layer to supplement core capital for the benefit
    of senior debt holders. In addition, the spread between the
    trading prices of our subordinated debt and our senior debt
    serves as a market indicator to investors of the relative credit
    risk of our debt. A narrow spread between the trading prices of
    our subordinated debt and senior debt implies that the market
    perceives the credit risk of our debt to be relatively low. A
    wider spread between these prices implies that the market
    perceives our debt to have a higher relative credit risk.

The sum of our total capital plus the outstanding balance of our
    qualifying subordinated debt exceeded the sum of
    (1) outstanding Fannie Mae MBS held by third parties times
    0.45% and (2) total on-balance sheet assets times 4% by
    $8.4 billion, or 19.9%, as of June 30, 2006, and by
    $6.9 billion, or 16.8%, as of December 31, 2005.
    Qualifying subordinated debt with a remaining maturity of less
    than five years receives only partial credit in this
    calculation. One-fifth of the outstanding amount is excluded
    each year during the instrument s last five years before
    maturity and, when the remaining maturity is less than one year,
    the instrument is entirely excluded.

Qualifying subordinated debt is defined as subordinated debt
    that contains an interest deferral feature that requires us to
    defer the payment of interest for up to five years if either:

our core capital is below 125% of our critical capital
    requirement; or

our core capital is below our minimum capital requirement, and
    the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, acting on our request,
    exercises his or her discretionary authority pursuant to
    Section 304(c) of the Charter Act to purchase our debt
    obligations.

Core capital is defined by OFHEO and represents the sum of the
    stated value of our outstanding common stock (common stock less
    treasury stock), the stated value of our outstanding
    non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, our paid-in capital
    and our retained earnings, as determined in accordance with GAAP.

During any period in which we defer payment of interest on
    qualifying subordinated debt, we may not declare or pay
    dividends on, or redeem, purchase or acquire, our common stock
    or preferred stock. To date, no triggering events have occurred
    that would require us to defer interest payments on our
    qualifying subordinated debt.

Prior to our September 1, 2005 agreement with OFHEO,
    pursuant to our voluntary initiatives, we sought to maintain
    sufficient subordinated debt to bring the sum of total capital
    and outstanding subordinated debt to at least 4% of on-balance
    sheet assets, after providing adequate capital to support Fannie
    Mae MBS held by third parties that is not included in the
    consolidated balance sheets. We had qualifying subordinated debt
    with a carrying amount of $12.5 billion, $12.5 billion
    and $8.5 billion as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and
    2002,

183

Table of Contents   

respectively, which, together with our total capital,
    constituted 4.0%, 3.3% and 2.7% of our on-balance sheet assets
    as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
    Qualified subordinated debt with a remaining maturity of less
    than five years did not receive a partial credit in this
    calculation.

We issued $4.0 billion and $3.5 billion of qualifying
    subordinated debt securities in 2003 and 2002, respectively. We
    have not issued any subordinated debt securities since 2003.
    Under our agreement with OFHEO, we intend to resume the issuance
    of subordinated debt once we return to timely financial
    reporting. In May 2006, $1.6 billion of our qualifying
    subordinated debt matured. As of the date of this filing, we
    have $11.0 billion in outstanding qualifying subordinated
    debt.

Dividends  

In January 2005, our Board of Directors reduced our quarterly
    dividend rate by 50%, from $0.52 per share of common stock
    to $0.26 per share of common stock. We reduced our common
    stock dividend rate in order to increase our capital surplus,
    which was a component of our capital restoration plan.

We have paid quarterly common stock dividends of:

On October 17, 2006, the Board of Directors declared common
    stock dividends of $0.26 per share for the fourth quarter of
    2006, which was paid on November 27, 2006. On
    December 6, 2006, the Board of Directors increased the
    quarterly common stock dividend to $0.40 per share. The Board
    determined that the increased dividend would be effective
    beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, and therefore declared
    a special common stock dividend of $0.14 per share, payable on
    December 29, 2006, to stockholders of record on
    December 15, 2006. This special dividend of $0.14, combined
    with our previously declared dividend of $0.26 paid on November
    27, 2006, will result in a total common stock dividend of $0.40
    per share for the fourth quarter of 2006.

Our Board of Directors has also approved preferred stock
    dividends for the period commencing December 31, 2003, up
    to but excluding December 31, 2006. See  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements Note 17, Preferred
    Stock  for detailed information on our preferred stock
    dividends.

OFF-BALANCE
    SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  

We enter into certain business arrangements to facilitate our
    statutory purpose of providing liquidity to the secondary
    mortgage market and to reduce our exposure to interest rate
    fluctuations. We form arrangements to meet the financial needs
    of our customers and manage our credit, market or liquidity
    risks. Some of these arrangements are not recorded in the
    consolidated balance sheets or may be recorded in amounts
    different from the full contract or notional amount of the
    transaction, depending on the nature or structure of, and
    accounting required to be applied to, the arrangement. These
    arrangements are commonly referred to as  off-balance sheet
    arrangements,  and expose us to potential losses in excess
    of the amounts recorded in the consolidated balance sheets.

The most significant off-balance sheet arrangements that we
    engage in result from the mortgage loan securitization and
    resecuritization transactions that we routinely enter into as
    part of the normal course of our business operations. Our
    Single-Family Credit Guaranty business generates most of its
    revenues through the guaranty fees earned from these
    securitization transactions. In addition, our HCD business
    generates a significant amount of its revenues through the
    guaranty fees earned from these securitization transactions. We
    also enter into other guaranty transactions and hold LIHTC
    partnership interests that are considered off-balance sheet
    arrangements.

184

Table of Contents   

Fannie
    Mae MBS Transactions and Other Financial Guaranties  

As described in  Item 1 Business,  both our
    Single-Family Credit Guaranty business and our HCD business
    generate revenue through guaranty fees earned in connection with
    the issuance of Fannie Mae MBS. In a typical Fannie Mae MBS
    transaction, we receive mortgage loans or mortgage-related
    securities from lenders and transfer the assets to a trust or
    special purpose entity. Upon creation of the trust, we deliver
    back beneficial interests in the trust to investors in the form
    of Fannie Mae MBS. In holding Fannie Mae MBS created from a pool
    of whole loans, an investor has securities that are generally
    more liquid than whole loans, which provides the investor with
    greater financial flexibility. In particular, by holding readily
    marketable Fannie Mae MBS, lenders increase their ability to
    replenish their funds for use in making additional loans.

We guarantee to each MBS trust that we will supplement mortgage
    loan collections as required to permit timely payments of
    principal and interest on the related Fannie Mae MBS,
    irrespective of the cash flows received from borrowers. In
    connection with our guaranties issued or modified on or after
    January 1, 2003, we record in the consolidated balance
    sheets a guaranty obligation based on an estimate of our
    non-contingent obligation to stand ready to perform under these
    guaranties. We also record in the consolidated balance sheets a
    reserve for guaranty losses based on an estimate of our incurred
    credit losses on all of our guaranties, irrespective of the
    issuance date.

While we hold some Fannie Mae MBS in our mortgage portfolio, the
    substantial majority of outstanding Fannie Mae MBS is held by
    third parties and therefore is generally not reflected in the
    consolidated balance sheets. Of the $1.9 trillion in total
    Fannie Mae MBS outstanding as of December 31, 2004,
    $344.4 billion was held in our portfolio and $1.4 trillion
    was held by third-party investors. The $344.4 billion in
    Fannie Mae MBS held in our portfolio is reflected in the
    consolidated balance sheets as  Investments in
    securities.  We consolidate certain Fannie Mae MBS trusts
    depending on the significance of our interest in those MBS
    trusts. Upon consolidation, we recognize the assets of the
    consolidated trust. As of December 31, 2004, we had
    recognized $150.1 billion of assets as  Mortgage
    loans  in the consolidated balance sheets as a result of
    consolidating MBS trusts. Accordingly, as of December 31,
    2004, there was approximately $1.4 trillion in outstanding and
    unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS held by third parties, which is
    not included in the consolidated balance sheets.

While our guaranties relating to Fannie Mae MBS represent the
    substantial majority of our guaranty activity, we also provide
    other financial guaranties. Our HCD business provides credit
    enhancements primarily for taxable and tax-exempt bonds issued
    by state and local governmental entities to finance multifamily
    housing for low- and moderate-income families. Under these
    credit enhancement arrangements, we guarantee to the trust that
    we will supplement proceeds as required to permit timely payment
    on the related bonds, which improves the bond ratings and
    thereby results in lower-cost financing for multifamily housing.
    Our HCD business generates revenue from the fees earned on these
    transactions. These transactions also contribute to our housing
    goals and help us meet other mission-related objectives.

Our maximum potential exposure to credit losses relating to our
    outstanding and unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS held by third
    parties and our other financial guaranties is significantly
    higher than the carrying amount of the guaranty obligations and
    reserve for guaranty losses that are reflected in the
    consolidated balance sheets. In the case of outstanding and
    unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS held by third parties, our maximum
    potential exposure arising from these guaranties is primarily
    represented by the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage
    loans underlying these Fannie Mae MBS, which was
    $1.4 trillion as of December 31, 2004. In the case of
    our other financial guaranties, our maximum potential exposure
    is primarily represented by the unpaid principal balance of the
    underlying bonds and loans, which was $14.8 billion as of
    December 31, 2004.

Based on our historical credit losses, which have averaged
    approximately 0.01% of our mortgage credit book of business
    during the period 2002 to 2004, we do not believe that the
    maximum exposure on our Fannie Mae MBS and other credit-related
    guaranties is representative of our actual credit exposure
    relating to these guaranties. In the event that we were required
    to make payments under these guaranties, we would pursue
    recovery of these payments by exercising our rights to the
    collateral backing the underlying loans or through available
    credit enhancements (which includes all recourse with third
    parties and mortgage insurance).

185

Table of Contents   

The table below presents a summary of our on- and off-balance
    sheet Fannie Mae MBS and other guaranty obligations as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003.

Table
    44:  On- and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

(1)   

Represents $1.9 trillion in unpaid
    principal balance of Fannie Mae MBS outstanding as of both
    December 31, 2004 and 2003 and $14.8 billion and
    $13.2 billion in unpaid principal balance of other
    guaranties as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

(2)   

Recorded as  Investments in
    Securities  in the consolidated balance sheets.

(3)   

Represents consolidated Fannie Mae
    MBS, which are recorded as  Mortgage loans  in the
    consolidated balance sheets.

For more information on our securitization transactions,
    including the interests we retain in these transactions, cash
    flows from these transactions, and our accounting for these
    transactions, see  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 7, Portfolio Securitizations, 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 8, Financial Guaranties and Master
    Servicing  and  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 18, Concentrations of Credit
    Risk.  For information on the revenues and expenses
    associated with our Single-Family Credit Guaranty and HCD
    businesses, refer to  Business Segment Results. 

LIHTC
    Partnership Interests  

Our HCD business s Community Investment Group makes equity
    investments in numerous limited partnerships that sponsor
    affordable housing projects utilizing the low-income housing tax
    credit pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code.
    We invest in LIHTC partnerships in order to increase the supply
    of affordable housing in the United States and to serve
    communities in need. In addition, our investments in LIHTC
    partnerships generate both tax credits and net operating losses
    that reduce our federal income tax liability. The tax benefits
    associated with these LIHTC partnerships were the primary
    reasons for our effective tax rate in 2004 being 17% versus the
    federal statutory rate of 35%.

LIHTC partnerships own interests in rental housing that the
    partnerships have developed or rehabilitated. By renting a
    specified portion of the housing units to qualified low-income
    tenants over a
     15-year 
    period, the partnerships become eligible for the federal
    low-income housing tax credit. To qualify for this tax credit,
    among other requirements, the project owner must irrevocably
    elect that either (1) a minimum of 20% of the residential
    units will be rent-restricted and occupied by tenants whose
    income does not exceed 50% of the area median gross income, or
    (2) a minimum of 40% of the residential units will be
    rent-restricted and occupied by tenants whose income does not
    exceed 60% of the area median gross income. Failure to qualify
    as an affordable housing project over the entire
     15-year 
    period may result in the recapture of a portion of the tax
    credits. The LIHTC partnerships are generally organized by fund
    manager sponsors who seek out investments with third-party
    developers who in turn develop or rehabilitate the properties,
    and subsequently manage them. We invest in these partnerships as
    a limited partner with the fund manager acting as the general
    partner. In making investments in these LIHTC partnerships, our
    HCD business s Community Investment Group identifies
    qualified sponsors and structures the terms of our investment.

In certain instances, we have been determined to be the primary
    beneficiary of these LIHTC partnership investments, and
    therefore all of the partnership assets and liabilities have
    been recorded in the consolidated balance sheets, and the
    portion of these investments owned by third parties is recorded
    in the consolidated balance sheets as an offsetting minority
    interest. In most instances, we are not the primary beneficiary
    of the investments, and therefore our consolidated balance
    sheets reflect only our investment in the partnership, rather

186

Table of Contents   

than the full amount of the partnership s assets and
    liabilities. Our investments in LIHTC partnerships are recorded
    in the consolidated balance sheets as  Partnership
    investments. 

In cases where we are not the primary beneficiary of these
    investments, we account for our investments in LIHTC
    partnerships by using the equity method of accounting or the
    effective yield method of accounting, as appropriate. In each
    case, we record in the consolidated financial statements our
    share of the income and losses of the partnerships, as well as
    our share of the tax credits and tax benefits of the
    partnerships. Our share of the operating losses generated by our
    LIHTC partnerships is recorded in the consolidated statements of
    income under  Loss from partnership investments.  The
    tax credits and benefits associated with any operating losses
    incurred by these LIHTC partnerships are recorded in the
    consolidated statements of income within our  Provision for
    federal income taxes. 

As of December 31, 2004, we had a recorded investment in
    these LIHTC partnerships of $6.8 billion. Our risk exposure
    relating to these LIHTC partnerships is limited to the amount of
    our investment and the possible recapture of the tax benefits we
    have received from the partnership. Neither creditors of, nor
    equity investors in, these partnerships have any recourse to our
    general credit. To manage the risks associated with a
    partnership, we track compliance with the LIHTC requirements, as
    well as the property condition and financial performance of the
    underlying investment throughout the life of the investment. In
    addition, we evaluate the strength of the partnership s
    sponsor through periodic financial and operating assessments.
    Further, in some of our LIHTC partnership investments, our
    exposure to loss is further mitigated by our having a guaranteed
    economic return from an investment grade counterparty.

The table below provides information regarding our LIHTC
    partnership investments as of and for the year ended
    December 31, 2004:

Table
    45:  LIHTC Partnership Investments  

For more information on our off-balance sheet transactions, see
     Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 18, Concentrations of Credit
    Risk. 

IMPACT OF
    FUTURE ADOPTION OF ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

SOP 03-3, 
    Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a
    Transfer  

In December 2003, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee
    of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued
     SOP 03-3, 
     Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a
    Transfer
      ( SOP 03-3 ). 
     SOP 03-3 
    applies to acquired loans, debt securities and beneficial
    interests where there has been evidence of deterioration in
    credit quality since origination and for which it is probable at
    the purchase date that the investor will not be able to collect
    all contractually required payments receivable. It addresses the
    accounting for differences between the contractual cash flows of
    acquired loans and the cash flows expected to be collected from
    an investor s initial investment in loans acquired in a
    transfer if those differences are attributable, at least in
    part, to credit quality.

SOP 03-3 
    requires purchased loans, debt securities and beneficial
    interests within its scope to be initially recorded at fair
    value and prohibits the creation or carry over of a valuation
    allowance at the date of purchase.

187

Table of Contents   

It limits the yield that may be accreted as interest income on
    such loans to the excess of an investor s estimate of
    undiscounted expected principal, interest, and other cash flows
    from the loan over the investor s initial investment in the
    loan. The amount of yield to be accreted is not displayed in the
    consolidated balance sheets. Subsequent increases in estimated
    future cash flows to be collected are recognized prospectively
    in interest income through a yield adjustment over the remaining
    life of the loan. Decreases in estimated future cash flows to be
    collected are recognized as an impairment expense through a
    valuation allowance.
     SOP 03-3 
    applies prospectively to loans acquired in fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2004. Loans carried at fair
    value or mortgage loans held for sale are excluded from the
    scope of
     SOP 03-3. 
     SOP 03-3 
    will apply primarily to delinquent loans that we purchase from
    MBS trusts in connection with our guaranty as well as to
    delinquent loans in MBS trusts or private-label trusts that we
    consolidate pursuant to FIN 46R. We are evaluating the
    effect of the adoption of
     SOP 03-3 
    to the consolidated financial statements.

SFAS 123R,
    Share-Based Payment and SAB No. 107  

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),
     Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123R ), which
    revises SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB Opinion
    No. 25, and its related implementation guidance.
    SFAS 123R eliminates the alternative of applying the
    intrinsic value measurement provisions of APB 25 to stock
    compensation awards issued to employees. Rather, SFAS 123R
    requires measurement of the cost of employee services received
    in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the
    grant-date fair value of the award. With respect to options,
    SFAS 123R requires that they be measured at fair value
    using an option-pricing model that takes into account the
    options  unique characteristics and recognition of the cost
    as expense over the period the employee provides services to
    earn the award, which is generally the vesting period. Also,
    SFAS 123R requires that cash flows resulting from tax
    deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for
    those stock incentive awards, also referred to as excess tax
    benefits, to be classified as financing activities in the
    consolidated statements of cash flows.

This standard includes measurement requirements for employee
    stock options that are similar to those under the
     fair-value-based 
    method of SFAS 123; however, SFAS 123R requires
    initial and ongoing estimates of the amount of shares that will
    vest while SFAS 123 provided entities the option of
    assuming that all shares would vest and then recognize actual
    forfeitures as they occur and distinguishment of awards between
    equity and liabilities based on guidance in
    SFAS No. 150,  Accounting for Certain Financial
    Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and
    Equity. 

Additionally, SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107,
     Share-Based Payment , provides guidance related to the
    interaction between SFAS 123R and certain SEC rules and
    regulations, as well as the staff s views regarding the
    valuation of share-based payment arrangements.

SFAS 123R is effective for annual periods beginning after
    June 15, 2005 and requires use of the modified prospective
    application method to be applied to new awards, unvested awards
    and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after the
    effective date. We prospectively adopted the fair value expense
    recognition provisions of SFAS 123 effective
    January 1, 2003, using a model to estimate the fair value
    of the majority of our stock awards. We adopted SFAS 123R
    effective January 1, 2006 with no material impact to the
    consolidated financial statements.

SFAS 154,
    Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
     Accounting Changes and Error Corrections , which replaces
    APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes 
    ( APB 20 ) and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting
    Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements , and
    changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of
    a change in accounting principle. SFAS 154 applies to all
    voluntary changes in accounting principle and changes required
    by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the
    pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions.

APB 20 requires that the cumulative effect of most
    voluntary changes in accounting principles be included in net
    income in the period of adoption. The new statement requires
    retrospective application to prior periods  financial
    statements of a voluntary change in accounting principle, unless
    it is impracticable to determine either period-specific effects
    or the cumulative effect of the change. In addition,
    SFAS 154 requires that we

188

Table of Contents   

account for a change in method of depreciation, amortization, or
    depletion for long-lived, non-financial assets as a change in
    accounting estimate that is affected by a change in accounting
    principle. APB 20 previously required that we report such a
    change as a change in accounting principle.

SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and
    corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 154 effective
    January 1, 2006 had no impact on the consolidated financial
    statements.

SFAS 155,
    Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,
     Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments
     ( an amendment of SFAS 133 and SFAS 140 )
    ( SFAS 155 ). This statement: (i) clarifies
    which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not
    subject to SFAS 133; (ii) establishes a requirement to
    evaluate interests in securitized financial instruments that
    contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation;
    (iii) clarifies that concentration of credit risks in the
    form of subordination are not embedded derivatives; and
    (iv) permits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid
    financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that
    otherwise would require bifurcation.

SFAS 155 also amends Derivatives Implementation Group
    ( DIG ) Issue No. B39 relating to the application
    of call options that are exercisable only by a debtor. In
    November 2006, DIG Issue No. B40 was proposed by the FASB.
    The objective of the proposed guidance is to provide a narrow
    scope exception to certain provisions of SFAS 133 for
    securitized interests that contain only an embedded derivative
    that is tied to the prepayment risk of the underlying financial
    assets. Final guidance is expected to be issued in early 2007
    with an effective date that coincides with that of
    SFAS 155. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial
    instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of the first
    fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. We intend
    to adopt SFAS 155 effective January 1, 2007 and are
    evaluating the impact of its adoption on the consolidated
    financial statements.

SFAS 156,
    Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets  

In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156,
     Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets ,  an
    amendment of FASB Statement No. 140 
    ( SFAS 156 ). SFAS 156 modifies
    SFAS 140 by requiring that mortgage servicing rights
    ( MSRs ) be initially recognized at fair value and by
    providing the option to either (i) carry MSRs at fair value
    with changes in fair value recognized in earnings or
    (ii) continue recognizing periodic amortization expense and
    assess the MSRs for impairment as was originally required by
    SFAS 140. This option is available by class of servicing
    asset or liability. This statement also changes the calculation
    of the gain from the sale of financial assets by requiring that
    the fair value of servicing rights be considered part of the
    proceeds received in exchange for the sale of the assets.

SFAS 156 is effective for all separately recognized
    servicing assets and liabilities acquired or issued after the
    beginning of a fiscal year that begins after September 15,
    2006, with early adoption permitted. We intend to adopt
    SFAS 156 effective January 1, 2007. We do not believe
    the adoption of SFAS 156 will have a material effect on the
    consolidated financial statements.

FIN 48,
    Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  

In July 2006, the FASB issued FIN No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes 
    ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 supplements SFAS 109
    by defining a threshold for recognizing tax benefits in the
    consolidated financial statements.

FIN 48 provides a two-step approach to recognizing and
    measuring tax benefits when a benefits realization is uncertain.
    First, we must determine whether the benefit is to be recognized
    and then the amount to be recognized. Income tax benefits should
    be recognized when, based on the technical merits of a tax
    position, we believe that if upon examination, including
    resolution of any appeals or litigation process, it is more
    likely than not (a probability of greater than 50%) that the tax
    position would be sustained as filed. The benefit recognized for
    a tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not criterion is
    measured based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is more
    than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the
    taxing authority, taking into consideration the amounts and
    probabilities of the outcomes upon settlement.

189

Table of Contents   

FIN 48 is effective for consolidated financial statements
    beginning in the first quarter of 2007. The cumulative effect of
    applying the provisions of FIN 48 upon adoption will be
    reported as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings. We are
    evaluating the impact of its adoption on the consolidated
    financial statements.

SFAS 157,
    Fair Value Measurements  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurement  ( SFAS 157 ).
    SFAS 157 provides enhanced guidance for using fair value to
    measure assets and liabilities and requires companies to provide
    expanded information about assets and liabilities measured at
    fair value, including the effect of fair value measurements on
    earnings. This statement applies whenever other standards
    require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair
    value, but does not expand the use of fair value in any new
    circumstances.

Under SFAS 157, fair value refers to the price that would
    be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in
    an orderly transaction between market participants in the market
    in which the reporting entity transacts. This statement
    clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the
    assumptions market participants would use when pricing the asset
    or liability. In support of this principle, this standard
    establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the
    information used to develop those assumptions. The fair value
    hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active
    markets and the lowest priority to unobservable data (for
    example, a company s own data). Under this statement, fair
    value measurements would be separately disclosed by level within
    the fair value hierarchy.

SFAS 157 is effective for consolidated financial statements
    issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007,
    and interim periods within those fiscal years. We intend to
    adopt SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2008 and are
    evaluating the impact of its adoption on the consolidated
    financial statements.

SFAS 158,
    Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
    Postretirement Plans  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,
     Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)
     ( SFAS 158 ). SFAS 158 requires the
    recognition of a plan s over-funded or under-funded status
    as an asset or liability and an adjustment to AOCI.
    Additionally, it requires determination of benefit obligations
    and the fair values of a plan s assets at a company s
    year-end and recognition of actuarial gains and losses, and
    prior service costs and credits, as a component of AOCI. For
    employers with publicly-traded securities, SFAS 158 is
    effective as of the end of the fiscal year ending after
    December 15, 2006. We intend to adopt SFAS 158
    effective December 31, 2006 and are evaluating the impact
    of its adoption on the consolidated financial statements.

2004
    QUARTERLY REVIEW  

We provide certain selected unaudited quarterly financial
    statement information for the year ended December 31, 2004
    in  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements Note 21, Selected Quarterly Financial
    Information (Unaudited).  The selected financial
    information includes the following:

The results for the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and
    June 30, 2004 have been restated from previously reported
    results. See   Restatement  for more information
    about our restatement. Since the results for the quarters ended
    September 30, 2004 and December 31, 2004 were not
    previously reported, they are not being restated.

190

Table of Contents   

Table
    46:  2004 Quarterly Condensed Consolidated Statements
    of Income  

(1)   

Certain amounts have been
    reclassified to conform to the current condensed consolidated
    statement of income presentation.

191

Table of Contents   

Table
    47:  2004 Quarterly Condensed Consolidated Balance
    Sheets  

(1)   

Certain amounts have been
    reclassified to conform to the current condensed consolidated
    balance sheet presentation.

192

Table of Contents   

Table
    48:  2004 Quarterly Condensed Business Segment
    Results  

(1)   

Includes cost of capital charge.

(2)   

Includes intercompany guaranty fee
    income (expense) of $254 million allocated to Single-Family
    Credit Guaranty and HCD from Capital Markets for absorbing the
    credit risk on mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS held in our
    portfolio.

(1)   

Includes cost of capital charge.

(2)   

Includes intercompany guaranty fee
    income (expense) of $257 million allocated to Single-Family
    Credit Guaranty and HCD from Capital Markets for absorbing the
    credit risk on mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS held in our
    portfolio.

193

Table of Contents   

(1)   

Includes cost of capital charge.

(2)   

Includes intercompany guaranty fee
    income (expense) of $260 million allocated to Single-Family
    Credit Guaranty and HCD from Capital Markets for absorbing the
    credit risk on mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS held in our
    portfolio.

(1)   

Includes cost of capital charge.

(2)   

Includes intercompany guaranty fee
    income (expense) of $260 million allocated to Single-Family
    Credit Guaranty and HCD from Capital Markets for absorbing the
    credit risk on mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS held in our
    portfolio.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, our earnings
    fluctuated from a net loss of $65 million for the quarter
    ended March 31, 2004, to net income of $4.3 billion
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, to a net loss of
    $867 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2004
    and to net income of $1.6 billion for the quarter

194

Table of Contents   

ended December 31, 2004. As discussed in  Consolidated
    Results of Operations  above, we expect that our annual and
    quarterly results will be volatile, primarily due to changes in
    market conditions that result in periodic fluctuations in the
    estimated fair value of our derivative instruments, reflected in
    the consolidated statements of income as  Derivatives fair
    value gains (losses), net.  The following is a quarterly
    review of our results for the interim periods during 2004.

Quarter
    Ended March 31, 2004  

For the quarter ended March 31, 2004, we recorded a net
    loss of $65 million, primarily from derivatives fair value
    losses of $6.4 billion and other losses that more than
    offset our net interest income, guaranty fee income, investment
    gains and tax benefit for the quarter.

Net interest income totaled $5.1 billion for the quarter
    ended March 31, 2004. The average yield on our investment
    balance in the first quarter of 2004 was affected by purchases
    of lower-coupon mortgages and continued liquidations of
    higher-coupon mortgages.

Guaranty fee income for the quarter ended March 31, 2004
    was $891 million, which was driven by average outstanding
    Fannie Mae MBS for the first quarter of 2004 at an effective
    guaranty fee rate that remained consistent with our effective
    guaranty fee rate for 2003.

Investment gains, net for the quarter ended March 31, 2004
    were primarily comprised of unrealized gains on trading
    securities driven by a decline in interest rates during the
    first quarter of 2004 and realized gains on securities sold
    during the first quarter. These gains were slightly offset by
    impairments of securities.

We recorded derivatives fair value losses of $6.4 billion
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2004, which were primarily
    due to losses of $1.6 billion, $790 million and
    $4.0 billion in net periodic contractual interest expense,
    losses in the fair value of terminated derivatives from the
    beginning of the quarter to the date of termination and losses
    in the fair value of open derivative positions as of
    March 31, 2004, primarily due to declines in interest rates
    during the first quarter of 2004 as compared to 2003 levels.

We recorded a benefit for federal income taxes of
    $529 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. The
    benefit for federal income taxes includes taxes at the federal
    statutory rate of 35% adjusted for tax credits recognized for
    our LIHTC partnership investments and other tax credits.

Quarter
    Ended June 30, 2004  

For the quarter ended June 30, 2004, we recorded net income
    of $4.3 billion, primarily from derivatives fair value
    gains of $2.3 billion in addition to net interest income
    and guaranty fee income, which was offset by $1.5 billion
    in investment losses and the quarterly tax provision.

Net interest income decreased to $4.8 billion for the
    quarter ended June 30, 2004 from $5.1 billion for the
    quarter ended March 31, 2004, due to a decline in our net
    interest yield on a quarter-to-quarter basis and an
    approximately 2% decrease in average interest-earning assets for
    the second quarter of 2004. The decline in net interest yield
    was primarily driven by an increase in our portfolio of
    floating-rate and ARM products, which tend to earn lower initial
    yields than fixed-rate mortgage assets, and increasing
    short-term debt rates as short-term interest rates rose.

Guaranty fee income decreased to $727 million for the
    quarter ended June 30, 2004 from $891 million for the
    quarter ended March 31, 2004, due to a decrease in our
    effective guaranty fee rate that was partially offset by growth
    in our average MBS outstanding balances. The decrease in our
    effective guaranty fee rate was primarily due to slower
    recognition of deferred fee amounts, resulting from an
    increasing interest rate environment during the second quarter.

Investment losses, net totaled $1.5 billion for the quarter
    ended June 30, 2004, primarily due to losses from the
     mark-to-market 
    of trading securities and LOCOM adjustments on HFS loans as
    interest rates increased significantly in the second quarter of
    2004. Investment losses, net for the quarter were also impacted
    by realized losses on sales of investment securities.

195

Table of Contents   

We recorded derivatives fair value gains of $2.3 billion
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, primarily due a
    $4.1 billion gain in the fair value of open derivative
    positions at quarter-end caused by a rise in interest rates.
    This gain was reduced by a $1.4 billion loss from net
    periodic contractual interest expense, a $139 million loss
    in the fair value of terminated derivatives from the beginning
    of the quarter to the date of termination, and a
    $273 million loss on commitments.

Fee and other income increased to $413 million for the
    quarter ended June 30, 2004 from $56 million for the
    quarter ended March 31, 2004, primarily due to the
    recognition of foreign currency transaction gains on our foreign
    currency-denominated debt caused by changes in foreign currency
    exchange rates during the period.

We recorded a provision for federal income taxes for the quarter
    ended June 30, 2004 of $1.8 billion. The provision for
    federal income taxes includes taxes at the federal statutory
    rate of 35% adjusted for tax credits recognized for our LIHTC
    partnership investments and other tax credits.

Quarter
    Ended September 30, 2004  

For the quarter ended September 30, 2004, we recorded a net
    loss of $867 million, primarily from a derivatives fair
    value loss, net, of $7.1 billion that more than offset our
    net interest income, guaranty fee income, investment gains and
    the quarterly tax benefit for the quarter.

Net interest income decreased to $4.0 billion for the
    quarter ended September 30, 2004 from $4.8 billion for
    the quarter ended June 30, 2004, due to a decrease in the
    net interest yield caused by a continued shift in the mix of
    assets to floating-rate and ARM products, which tend to earn
    lower initial yields than fixed-rate mortgage assets. Net
    interest income was also impacted by continued increases in
    short-term debt rates during the third quarter of 2004.

Guaranty fee income increased to $1.1 billion for the
    quarter ended September 30, 2004 from $727 million for
    the quarter ended June 30, 2004, due to an increase in the
    effective guaranty fee rate. The increase in the effective
    guaranty fee rate was driven by a decrease in interest rates
    during the third quarter of 2004 that had the effect of
    accelerating the recognition of deferred amounts.

Investment gains, net for the quarter ended September 30,
    2004 mainly consisted of unrealized gains on trading securities
    driven by a decline in interest rates during the third quarter
    of 2004.

We recorded derivatives fair value losses of $7.1 billion
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, primarily due to
    a loss of $4.7 billion in the fair value of open derivative
    positions at quarter-end caused by declines in interest rates
    and a $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion loss in net
    periodic contractual interest expense and a loss on the fair
    value of terminated derivatives from the beginning of the
    quarter to the date of termination, respectively. These
    decreases were slightly mitigated by a $163 million gain on
    commitments.

Fee and other income decreased to $103 million for the
    quarter ended September 30, 2004 from $413 million for
    the quarter ended June 30, 2004, primarily due to the
    recognition of foreign currency transaction losses on our
    foreign currency-denominated debt caused by changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates during the period.

We recorded a benefit for federal income taxes for the quarter
    ended September 30, 2004 of $910 million. The benefit
    for federal income taxes includes taxes at the federal statutory
    rate of 35% adjusted for tax credits recognized for our LIHTC
    partnership investments and other tax credits.

Quarter
    Ended December 31, 2004  

For the quarter ended December 31, 2004, we recorded net
    income of $1.6 billion, primarily from net interest income
    and guaranty fee income, partially offset by derivatives fair
    value losses of $943 million for the quarter, other
    expenses of $978 million and the quarterly tax provision.

Net interest income increased to $4.2 billion for the
    quarter ended December 31, 2004 from $4.0 billion for
    the quarter ended September 30, 2004, due to an increase in
    our net interest yield, partially offset by a slight decrease in
    average interest-earning assets for the quarter. The improvement
    in the net interest yield was largely driven by lower premium
    amortization, as interest rates increased slightly during the
    fourth quarter of 2004.

196

Table of Contents   

Guaranty fee income decreased to $919 million for the
    quarter ended December 31, 2004 from $1.1 billion for
    the quarter ended September 30, 2004, due to a decline in
    the effective guaranty fee rate. The decline in the effective
    guaranty fee rate was driven by a slight increase in interest
    rates during the fourth quarter that had the effect of slowing
    the recognition of deferred amounts.

Investment losses, net for the quarter ended December 31,
    2004 mainly consisted of unrealized gains on trading securities
    driven by relatively flat interest rates during the fourth
    quarter of 2004 and higher recorded impairments.

We recorded derivatives fair value losses of $943 million
    for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, primarily due to a
    loss of $791 million in net periodic contractual interest
    expense and a $134 million loss in the fair value of open
    derivative positions at quarter-end caused by minor movements in
    interest rates.

Fee and other income (expense) decreased to a loss of
    $168 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2004
    from income of $103 million for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2004, primarily due to the recognition of
    foreign currency transaction losses on our foreign
    currency-denominated debt caused by changes in foreign currency
    exchange rates during the period.

The provision for credit losses increased for the quarter ended
    December 31, 2004 to $219 million from
    $65 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.
    In the fourth quarter of 2004, we increased our combined
    allowance for loan losses and reserve for guaranty losses by
    approximately $142 million due to an observed trend of
    reduced levels of recourse proceeds from lenders on charged-off
    loans.

Other expenses for the quarter ended December 31, 2004
    increased to $978 million from $417 million for the
    quarter ended September 30, 2004, primarily due to
    recording a $400 million charge for the civil penalty from
    our settlement agreements with OFHEO and the SEC. In addition,
    we recorded a $116 million charge for the write off of
    previously capitalized software, as well as a higher level of
    legal and professional services costs related to regulatory
    reviews.

We recorded a provision for federal income taxes for the quarter
    ended December 31, 2004 of $710 million. The provision
    for federal income taxes includes taxes at the federal statutory
    rate of 35% adjusted for tax credits recognized for our LIHTC
    partnership investments and other tax credits.

Consolidated
    Balance Sheet  

The consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004 did
    not change significantly from 2003 or throughout the year. Our
    assets as of December 31, 2004 totaled $1.0 trillion,
    a decrease of $1.3 billion from December 31, 2003,
    primarily due to decreases in federal funds sold and securities
    purchased under agreements to resell. Liabilities as of
    December 31, 2004 totaled $982.0 billion, a decrease
    of $8.0 billion from December 31, 2003. We experienced
    fluctuations in our short-term and long-term debt during 2004 as
    we continued to change the types and durations of our
    outstanding debt to better align with our portfolio of mortgage
    assets. Stockholders  equity as of December 31, 2004
    was $38.9 billion, an increase of $6.6 billion from
    December 31, 2003. The increase was primarily a result of
    our $5 billion preferred stock issuance in December 2004.

Item 7A.    

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set
    forth on pages 159 through 167 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    under the caption  Item 7 MD Risk
    Management Interest Rate Risk Management and Other Market
    Risks. 

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  

Our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto are
    included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    as described below in  Item 15 Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules. 

Item 9.    

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure  

None.

197

Table of Contents   

Item 9A.    

Controls
    and Procedures  

EVALUATION
    OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

As required by
     Rule 13a-15 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act,
    management has evaluated, with the participation of our Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness
    of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the
    period covered by this report. In addition, management has
    performed this same evaluation as of the date of filing this
    report. Disclosure controls and procedures refer to controls and
    other procedures designed to ensure that information required to
    be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange
    Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the
    time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC.
    Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation,
    controls and procedures designed to ensure that information
    required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or
    submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to
    management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions
    regarding our required disclosure. In designing and evaluating
    our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes
    that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed
    and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving
    the desired control objectives, and management was required to
    apply its judgment in evaluating and implementing possible
    controls and procedures.

Management conducted its evaluation of disclosure controls and
    procedures under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer
    and the Chief Financial Officer. Pursuant to its evaluation,
    management determined that we did not maintain effective
    disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2004.
    We failed to maintain an effective Disclosure Committee and we
    have not filed periodic reports on a timely basis, as required
    by the rules of the SEC and the NYSE, since June 30, 2004.
    Our review of our accounting policies and practices in 2005 and
    2006, and the restatement of our consolidated financial
    statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002,
    resulted in an inability to timely file our Annual Reports on
     Form 10-K 
    for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, and our
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarters ended September 30, 2004, March 31,
    2005, June 30, 2005, September 30, 2005,
    March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30,
    2006.

In addition, as described below, management identified numerous
    material weaknesses in our internal control over financial
    reporting, which management considers an integral component of
    our disclosure controls and procedures. The Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board s Auditing Standard No. 2
    defines a material weakness as a significant deficiency, or
    combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more
    than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the
    annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or
    detected. As a result of these material weaknesses, as well as
    the reasons noted above, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls
    and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2004
    or as of the date of filing this report.

We have made progress in improving our disclosure controls and
    procedures. We have taken, and are taking, the actions described
    below under  Remediation Activities and Changes in Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting  to remediate the material
    weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In
    addition, we have enhanced the procedures followed by our
    Disclosure Committee. These enhancements include:

revision and adoption of a new charter by the Disclosure
    Committee;

an annual review of the Disclosure Committee charter;

clarification of authority and role of the Disclosure Committee;

formal training for Disclosure Committee members;

maintenance of agendas; and

implementation of a formalized voting process.

198

Table of Contents   

We continue to strive to improve our processes to enable us to
    provide complete and accurate public disclosure on a timely
    basis. Management believes that this material weakness relating
    to our disclosure controls will not be remediated until we are
    able to file required reports with the SEC and the NYSE on a
    timely basis.

To address the material weaknesses described in this
    Item 9A, management performed additional analyses and other
    post-closing procedures designed to ensure that our consolidated
    financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP.
    These procedures included data validation and certification
    procedures from the source systems to the general ledger, pre-
    and post-closing analytics, model validation procedures for
    financial models supporting the consolidated financial
    statements, and independent third-party reviews of selected
    accounting systems and accounting conclusions. As a result,
    management believes that the consolidated financial statements
    included in this report fairly present in all material respects
    the company s financial position, results of operations and
    cash flows for the periods presented.

MANAGEMENT S
    REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  

Overview  

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
    control over financial reporting, as defined in rules
    promulgated under the Exchange Act, is a process designed by, or
    under the supervision of, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer and effected by our Board of Directors,
    management and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with GAAP. Internal control over financial reporting
    includes those policies and procedures that:

pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail
    accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
    of our assets;

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
    necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
    that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in
    accordance with authorizations of our management and members of
    our Board of Directors; and

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of
    our assets that could have a material effect on our financial
    statements.

Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide
    absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives
    because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over
    financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence
    and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and
    breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over
    financial reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or
    improper override. Because of such limitations, there is a risk
    that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on
    a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting.
    However, these inherent limitations are known features of the
    financial reporting process, and it is possible to design into
    the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this
    risk.

Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004.
    In making its assessment, management used the criteria
    established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework
     issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission ( COSO ). Management also
    undertook a separate review of our financial reporting process
    and application of GAAP. In addition, the Special Review
    Committee of the Board of Directors engaged former Senator
    Warren B. Rudman and the law firm of Paul Weiss to conduct an
    independent investigation of our historical accounting
    practices, internal controls, and corporate governance and
    structure prior to 2005. Furthermore, OFHEO, our safety and
    soundness regulator, conducted a special examination of our
    accounting policies, internal controls, financial reporting,
    corporate governance, and other safety and soundness matters.
    Some of the findings resulting from OFHEO s examination
    relate to our internal control over financial reporting.
    Management has considered the results of each of these
    activities in developing its conclusions concerning our internal
    control over financial reporting.

199

Table of Contents   

As a result of its assessment of our internal control over
    financial reporting, management identified the material
    weaknesses discussed below. Because of the material weaknesses
    identified in the following paragraphs, management has concluded
    that our internal control over financial reporting was not
    effective as of December 31, 2004.

Management s assessment of our internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 identified
    numerous material weaknesses in our control environment, our
    application of GAAP, our financial reporting process, and our
    information technology applications and infrastructure as of
    December 31, 2004. A description of the material weaknesses
    relating to each of these areas is included below. Further, we
    identified additional material weaknesses in the independent
    model review process, treasury and trading operations, pricing
    and independent price verification processes, and wire transfer
    controls.

Description
    of Material Weaknesses  

Control
    Environment   

We did not maintain an effective control environment related to
    internal control over financial reporting. Specifically, we
    identified the following material weaknesses in our control
    environment as of December 31, 2004:

Tone at the Top 

We did not establish and maintain a consistent and proper tone
    as to the importance of internal control over financial
    reporting.

Accounting Policy 

We lacked a written, comprehensive set of GAAP-compliant
    financial accounting policies and a formalized process for
    determining, monitoring, disseminating, implementing and
    updating our accounting policies and procedures.

Board of Directors and Executive Roles 

Roles and responsibilities were not clearly defined and
    documented between our executive management team and our Board
    of Directors. Our Chief Executive Officer served as the Chairman
    of the Board of Directors and our Chief Financial Officer and
    Chief Operating Officer each served as a vice chair of the Board
    of Directors. As a result, these two corporate governance
    structures lacked sufficient checks and balances, which
    adversely affected the flow of information to, and the
    effectiveness of, the Board of Directors.

Enterprise-Wide Risk Oversight 

We did not maintain a properly staffed, comprehensive and
    independent risk oversight function. Specifically, our risk
    oversight function lacked enterprise-wide coordination,
    dedicated senior leadership and sufficient staffing.
    Comprehensive risk policies did not exist, and existing policies
    applicable to each business unit required enhancement.

Internal Audit 

We did not maintain an effective and independent Internal Audit
    function. Internal Audit did not maintain a sufficient
    complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting
    and auditing knowledge, experience and training to effectively
    execute an appropriate audit plan. In addition, the Internal
    Audit department did not functionally report to the Audit
    Committee of the Board of Directors, but reported to the Chief
    Financial Officer, which created inadequate independence and
    objectivity. Further, our Internal Audit function lacked clarity
    regarding its risk assessment process, communications and audit
    plans. Our ineffective Internal Audit function adversely
    affected our ability to adequately identify our control
    weaknesses.

200

Table of Contents   

Human Resources 

Our human resources function did not have clear enterprise-wide
    coordination, which resulted in ineffective definition and
    communication of employee roles and responsibilities. In
    addition, training and performance evaluations were not always
    effective. As a result, we did not have a sufficient number of
    qualified staff, clear job descriptions, and appropriate
    policies and procedures relating to human resources. Lines of
    delegated authority were not always clear.

Fraud Risk Management Program 

We did not maintain a comprehensive, centrally coordinated
    enterprise-wide fraud risk management program. Furthermore, we
    did not have a specific, comprehensive fraud risk management
    program related to internal control over financial reporting.

Whistleblower Program 

We lacked effective internal control over financial reporting
    relating to our whistleblower program that would ensure the
    anonymity, confidentiality and physical security of the
    information provided, as well as periodic reporting of that
    information. Although an enterprise-wide whistleblower program
    was in effect during 2004, regular reporting to a committee of
    the Board of Directors did not occur, and we believe the program
    was not trusted by company personnel.

Accounting/Finance Staffing Levels 

We did not maintain a sufficient complement of personnel with an
    appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and
    training in the application of GAAP commensurate with our
    financial reporting requirements. Further, the process we used
    to ensure that employees were assigned appropriate
    responsibilities based upon their credentials and experience was
    inadequate.

Information Technology Policy 

We did not maintain and clearly communicate information
    technology policies and procedures. This weakness contributed to
    our inadequate internal control over financial reporting systems.

Policies and Procedures 

We did not maintain adequate policies and procedures related to
    initiating, authorizing, recording, processing and reporting
    transactions. This lack of documentation led to
    (a) inconsistent execution of business practices,
    (b) inability to ensure practices were in accordance with
    management standards and (c) ambiguity in delegation of
    authority.

Application
    of GAAP   

We did not maintain effective internal control over financial
    reporting relating to our process and information technology
    applications for determining, monitoring, disseminating,
    implementing and updating accounting policies that complied with
    GAAP. We identified numerous material and immaterial
    misapplications of GAAP that indicate that a material weakness
    in our application of GAAP existed as of December 31, 2004.
    As described in
     Item 7 MD Restatement,  we have
    identified misapplications of GAAP in the following primary
    categories:

our accounting for debt and derivatives;

our accounting for commitments;

our accounting for investments in securities;

our accounting for MBS trust consolidations and sale accounting;

our accounting for financial guaranties and master servicing;

our amortization of cost basis adjustments; and

other adjustments, including accounting for income taxes.

201

Table of Contents   

Many of these misapplications of GAAP resulted in material
    modifications to our financial statements and many of the other
    misapplications of GAAP that did not result in a material
    modification could have resulted in a material misstatement in
    the financial statements.

Financial
    Reporting Process   

We did not maintain an effective, timely and accurate financial
    reporting process. Specifically, we identified the following
    material weaknesses in our financial reporting process as of
    December 31, 2004:

Financial Statement Preparation and Reporting 

We did not perform timely and complete reviews of the
    consolidated financial statements by personnel with knowledge
    sufficient to reach appropriate accounting conclusions.
    Specifically, our systems and processes were not designed and in
    operation to enable us to prepare accurate consolidated
    financial statements in accordance with GAAP. These systems and
    processes, coupled with our human resources and other material
    weaknesses, resulted in our inability to prepare and complete
    accurate financial information.

Disclosure Controls 

We did not maintain effective disclosure controls and
    procedures, including an effective Disclosure Committee,
    designed to ensure complete and accurate disclosure as required
    by GAAP. In addition, we have not filed periodic reports on a
    timely basis as required by the rules of the SEC and the NYSE.

General Ledger Controls 

We did not maintain effective internal control over financial
    reporting relating to the general ledger and the periodic
    closing of the general ledger. Specifically, the design and
    operation of this control was inadequate for managing the
    addition or deletion of specific balance sheet or consolidated
    statements of income accounts. In addition, personnel were not
    granted access to the general ledger that was appropriate to
    their scope of responsibility and we lacked a formalized process
    with adequate controls designed to ensure that the general
    ledger was closed properly at the end of each period.

Journal Entry Controls 

We did not maintain effective internal control over financial
    reporting relating to the recording of journal entries, both
    recurring and non-recurring. Specifically, the design and
    operation of this control was inadequate for ensuring that
    journal entries were prepared by personnel with adequate
    knowledge of the activity being posted. The entries were not
    supported by appropriate documentation and were not reviewed at
    the appropriate level to ensure the accuracy and completeness of
    the entries recorded.

Reconciliation Controls 

We did not maintain effective internal control over financial
    reporting relating to the reconciliation of many of our
    financial statement accounts and other data records that served
    as inputs to those accounts. Specifically, the design and
    operation of this control was inadequate for ensuring that our
    accounts were complete, accurate and in agreement with detailed
    supporting documentation. In addition, this control did not
    ensure proper review and approval of reconciliations by
    appropriate personnel.

Information
    Technology Applications and Infrastructure   

We did not maintain effective internal control over financial
    reporting related to information technology applications and
    infrastructure, and the references in this section to
     controls  refer to our internal control over
    financial reporting. Specifically, we identified the following
    material weaknesses relating to our information technology
    applications and infrastructure as of December 31, 2004:

Access Control 

We did not maintain effective design of controls over access to
    financial reporting applications and data. Specifically,
    ineffective controls included unrestricted access to programs
    and data, lack of periodic review and monitoring of such access,
    and lack of clearly communicated policies and procedures

202

Table of Contents   

governing information technology security and access.
    Furthermore, we did not maintain effective logging and
    monitoring of servers and databases to ensure that access was
    both appropriate and authorized.

Change Management 

We did not maintain effective controls designed to ensure that
    information technology program and data changes were authorized
    and that the program and data changes were adequately tested for
    accuracy and appropriate implementation.

End User Computing 

We did not maintain effective controls over end user computing
    ( EUC ) applications, such as spreadsheets.
    Specifically, controls were not designed and in operation to
    ensure that access to these applications was restricted to
    appropriate personnel and that changes to data or formulas were
    authorized.

Independent
    Model Review Process   

We identified a material weakness as of December 31, 2004
    related to the design of our internal control over financial
    reporting related to our independent model review process.
    Specifically, we did not independently review that: (i) the
    models and assumptions used to produce our financial statements
    were appropriate; and (ii) that outputs used to produce our
    financial statements were calculated accurately according to the
    model specifications. Our loan loss allowance, amortization,
    guaranty and financial instrument valuation processes each used
    models and, as discussed in
     Item 7 MD Restatement,  we
    incorrectly valued our derivatives, mortgage loan and security
    commitments, security investments, guaranties and other
    instruments.

Treasury
    and Trading Operations   

We identified a material weakness as of December 31, 2004
    related to the design of our internal control over financial
    reporting related to our treasury and trading operations.
    Specifically, our internal control over financial reporting was
    inadequate with respect to the process of authorizing,
    approving, validating and settling trades, including inadequate
    segregation of duties among trading, settlement and valuation
    activities within both our treasury and trading operations.

Pricing
    and Independent Price Verification Processes   

We identified a material weakness as of December 31, 2004
    related to the design of our internal control over financial
    reporting related to our pricing and independent price
    verification processes. Specifically, our internal control over
    financial reporting was inadequate with respect to the process
    used to price assets and liabilities, and did not maintain
    appropriate segregation of duties between the pricing function
    and the function responsible for independently verifying such
    prices.

Wire
    Transfer Controls   

We identified a material weakness as of December 31, 2004
    related to the design of our internal control over financial
    reporting related to our wire transfer function. Specifically,
    the design of our internal control over financial reporting was
    insufficient with respect to the initiation, authorization,
    segregation of duties and anti-fraud measures related to wire
    transfer transactions and with respect to the reconciliation of
    cash balances and wire transfer activity. In addition, approvals
    were not consistent with approval policies and funds movements
    lacked verifications.

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

In January 2005, we engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP (the
    independent registered public accounting firm that audited the
    consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2004) to audit
    management s assessment of the effectiveness of our
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2004. Deloitte & Touche s report
    disclaimed an opinion on management s assessment of the
    effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
    as of December 31, 2004 because:

203

Table of Contents   

we made significant changes in the personnel responsible for
    internal control over financial reporting prior to the
    commencement of their work; and

we made extensive changes to our internal control over financial
    reporting that had been in place as of December 31, 2004
    prior to the commencement of their field work.

Deloitte & Touche s report disclaimed an opinion
    on management s assessment of the effectiveness of our
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2004 because of a scope limitation and
    expressed an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2004 because of material weaknesses and the
    effects of a scope limitation. The report is included on
    page 211.

REMEDIATION
    ACTIVITIES AND CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
    REPORTING  

Overview  

Management has evaluated, with the participation of our Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, whether any
    changes in our internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the period from July 1, 2004 through the
    date of this filing (including the quarter ended
    December 31, 2004) have materially affected, or are
    reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
    over financial reporting. Based on the evaluation we conducted,
    management has implemented substantial changes during the period
    from July 1, 2004 through the date of this filing to
    remediate our material weaknesses in internal control over
    financial reporting.

We believe that, as of the date of this filing, we have fully
    remediated the following four material weaknesses relating to
    our control environment described above:

Tone at the Top;

Board of Directors and Executive Roles;

Whistleblower Program; and

Accounting/Finance Staff Levels.

With respect to the remaining material weaknesses described
    above, we are implementing new internal controls and are
    currently in the process of testing to assess their
    effectiveness. Management will not make a final determination
    that we have completed our remediation of these remaining
    material weaknesses until we have completed testing of our newly
    implemented internal controls. We currently estimate that we
    will not complete implementation and testing of most of these
    new controls until the filing of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2006, which we will not
    file on a timely basis; however, we anticipate that we may
    complete testing with respect to some of our remaining material
    weaknesses prior to that time. Further, we believe that we will
    not have remediated the material weakness relating to our
    disclosure controls and procedures until we are able to file
    required reports with the SEC and the NYSE on a timely basis.
    Deloitte & Touche will independently assess the
    effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting,
    but will make that assessment only in connection with its audit
    of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. In addition, our internal control
    environment will continue to be modified and enhanced in order
    to enable us to file periodic reports with the SEC on a current
    basis in the future.

The discussion below describes the actions that management has
    taken, or is taking, to remediate the material weaknesses
    described above and to improve our internal control over
    financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures.
    Management believes the measures that we have implemented to
    remediate the material weaknesses in internal control over
    financial reporting have had a material impact on our internal
    control over financial reporting since June 30, 2004, and
    anticipates that these changes and other ongoing enhancements
    and remediation activities will continue to have a material
    impact on our internal control over financial reporting in
    future periods.

204

Table of Contents   

Description
    of Remediation Actions  

Control
    Environment   

Tone at the Top 

We believe that we remediated this material weakness prior to
    the date of this filing. We have made significant changes to our
    Board of Directors, our management team and our corporate
    structure since December 31, 2004 in order to establish and
    maintain a consistent and proper tone as to the importance of
    internal control over financial reporting. The Board and
    management have emphasized the importance of internal control
    over financial reporting through communication and action. After
    an extensive recruitment process, our Board of Directors
    appointed a new Chief Executive Officer from within the company
    and a new Chief Financial Officer from outside the company. Over
    35% of our senior officers, including our Chief Financial
    Officer, Controller, Chief Audit Executive, Chief Risk Officer,
    General Counsel and all senior officers in our Controller s
    and Accounting Policy functions, joined the company after
    December 2004. In addition, with the assistance of an
    independent consulting firm, we have assessed the organizational
    design of our finance, risk, audit, compliance, operations and
    technology functions. New organizational structures and
    frameworks for each of these areas have been developed, and we
    are currently implementing these designs in many areas.

We have also initiated a comprehensive plan to transform our
    corporate culture into one focused on service, open and honest
    engagement, accountability and effective management practices.
    Additionally, based on recommendations made by independent
    consultants, we modified our compensation practices to include
    metrics in addition to earnings per share, including
    non-financial metrics relating to our controls, culture and
    mission goals.

In addition to these personnel, organizational and compensation
    changes, our new management team has encouraged an environment
    that fosters frequent, open and direct communications. This
    environment includes weekly CEO newsletters, open question lines
    to executive management, frequent company-wide town hall
    meetings, training on how to further foster open communication,
    and open feedback solicitation through management forums,
    surveys and roundtables. Management has continuously reinforced
    that enhancement of the understanding and execution of internal
    control over financial reporting is a top priority for the
    company.

Accounting Policy 

We have completed a full assessment of all our accounting
    policies to ensure their compliance with GAAP, which required us
    to revise substantially all of these accounting policies. We
    currently maintain a written, comprehensive set of
    GAAP-compliant financial accounting policies. All of these
    accounting policies have been documented and communicated to the
    appropriate accounting functions.

Staff in the accounting policy function has worked closely with
    each of the business units and financial reporting to ensure
    accurate accounting policy interpretation and to address new or
    emerging accounting policy issues. In addition, accounting
    standard-setting developments are actively monitored, with
    implementation impacts researched in coordination with the
    Controller s department, business unit personnel and other
    divisions that would be impacted. Additionally, accounting
    policy is actively engaged in new product and process approval
    to ensure that the correct accounting policy decisions are
    reached and implemented.

In addition, in order to provide a segregation of duties between
    those who develop our accounting policies and those who
    implement them, as part of our organizational redesign,
    reporting responsibility for the accounting policy function was
    moved from the Controller to the CFO. In May 2005, we announced
    the hiring of a new senior officer to oversee the accounting
    policy function.

205

Table of Contents   

Board of Directors and Executive Roles 

We believe that we remediated this material weakness prior to
    the date of this filing. We have made significant changes to the
    Board of Directors since our receipt of OFHEO s interim
    report in September 2004. These changes include:

amending our bylaws to separate the functions of the Chief
    Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board;

appointing Stephen B. Ashley as non-executive Chairman of the
    Board;

creating a Risk Policy and Capital Committee of the Board in
    February 2005, which replaced the role of the former
    Assets & Liabilities Policy Committee in assisting the
    Board in overseeing capital management and risk management;

creating a Technology and Operations Committee of the Board with
    responsibility for assisting the Board in overseeing these
    functions;

re-designating a new Compliance Committee of the Board, composed
    entirely of independent directors, in October 2004, that now has
    responsibility for monitoring compliance with our May 2006
    consent order with OFHEO. In November 2005, the Board of
    Directors commissioned the Compliance Committee as a permanent
    committee of the Board with responsibility for providing legal
    and regulatory oversight;

revising the charters of six standing committees of our Board of
    Directors (Audit Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance
    Committee, Compensation Committee, Compliance Committee, Risk
    Policy and Capital Committee, and Housing and Community Finance
    Committee);

changing the composition of the Board by eliminating two of the
    three management Board seats;

adding six new Board members who enhance the substantive
    business operations, accounting and finance knowledge of the
    Board; and

naming a new Chairman of the Audit Committee and appointing
    three other new members to the Audit Committee.

In addition, the Board of Directors appointed a new Chief
    Executive Officer.

Enterprise-Wide Risk Oversight 

We have established an enterprise-wide risk organization with
    oversight of credit risk, market risk and operational risk, as
    well as model review. In May 2006, we announced the hiring of a
    Chief Risk Officer, and new senior officers responsible for
    credit risk oversight and operational risk oversight reporting
    to the new Chief Risk Officer. In 2006, we also hired a senior
    officer responsible for market risk oversight, capital
    methodology and model review. We have developed and communicated
    corporate-wide risk policies and are enhancing our business unit
    risk management processes. We have implemented a new
    organizational risk structure that includes risk management
    personnel within each business unit. Those individuals report to
    business unit leadership and have responsibility for
    implementing the corporate-wide risk policies in their
    respective business units. We have enhanced Board monitoring and
    communication regarding credit risk and market risk by
    establishing the Risk Policy and Capital Committee of the Board
    of Directors. The Chief Risk Officer reports independently to
    the Risk Policy and Capital Committee, and also reports directly
    to the Chief Executive Officer.

206

Table of Contents   

Internal Audit 

In June 2005, management and the Audit Committee of the Board
    appointed a new Chief Audit Executive from outside the company.
    The Chief Audit Executive reports directly to the Audit
    Committee with indirect reporting to the CEO. The Chief Audit
    Executive has enhanced the level of communication with the Audit
    Committee, which includes increased communication with the
    Chairman of the Audit Committee and enhanced detail within the
    formal reports to the Audit Committee. Additionally, the
    Internal Audit function has completed a comprehensive review and
    analysis of its organizational design and audit processes,
    including organizational structure, staffing levels, skill
    assessments, audit planning, audit execution and reporting.
    Internal Audit has filled its key management positions and
    continues to reassess and enhance its staffing. The Internal
    Audit management team was expanded from one officer to four,
    three of whom are external hires. All officers in the Internal
    Audit department hold one or more of the following professional
    credentials: certified public accountant, certified internal
    auditor, certified fraud examiner, certified information systems
    auditor or certified bank auditor. Internal Audit has developed
    and communicated a risk-based audit plan, which it reports upon
    regularly to the Audit Committee.

Human Resources 

As part of our organizational redesign, we have repositioned and
    redefined the role of our human resources function. This has
    included rollout of a new performance assessment process,
    enhancement of job descriptions, and clearly communicated
    policies and procedures regarding human resources. Additionally,
    we have hired additional personnel into HR functions to assist
    in strengthening the role of human resources within the company.
    We have also completed a comprehensive corporate review of
    delegations of authority.

Fraud Risk Management Program 

We have designed a comprehensive, centrally coordinated
    enterprise-wide fraud risk management program. We adopted a
    fraud risk management policy and developed a formal fraud
    assessment process, which was initially implemented for those
    business areas identified as having high potential for fraud
    risk. A fraud risk management training program has been designed
    and rolled out to risk-prioritized business units. The Audit
    Committee of the Board of Directors has also successfully
    completed fraud risk management training.

We have also established the Operational Risk Oversight unit
    (ORO) reporting directly to the Chief Risk Officer. Management
    and monitoring of the fraud risk management program is the
    responsibility of the ORO.

Whistleblower Program 

We believe that we remediated this material weakness prior to
    the date of this filing. We have enhanced our whistleblower
    program with a new corporate ethics line that offers full
    anonymity to callers, if desired, regular reporting of cases to
    the Chief Compliance Officer, and regular formal reporting of
    cases to the Compliance and Audit Committees of the Board of
    Directors.

Accounting/Finance Staffing Levels 

We believe that we remediated this material weakness prior to
    the date of this filing. As part of our organizational redesign,
    we have performed a thorough staffing assessment of our
    accounting and finance organizations. We have replaced
    substantially all senior finance and accounting employees,
    including hiring a new Chief Financial Officer who joined the
    organization in January 2006. Additionally, management has
    increased the number of full-time employees in our accounting
    function and supplemented the function with outside contractors
    having the appropriate level of accounting experience and
    expertise to assist us in our restatement efforts. We have made
    progress in, and continue to execute upon, a hiring plan to
    replace such contractors with full-time employees.

207

Table of Contents   

Information Technology Policy 

We have developed an information technology standard setting
    board that governs the development and communication of
    information technology policies, corporate technology standards
    and detailed technology operating procedures throughout the
    company.

Policies and Procedures 

We have developed corporate-wide standards for policies and
    procedures for use throughout our business to support a uniform
    approach to the documentation of current policies, procedures
    and delegated authority in most areas of the company. Concurrent
    with our corporate policy and procedures initiative, each of our
    business units has identified and corrected deficient policies
    and procedures for processes relevant to internal control over
    financial reporting.

Application
    of GAAP   

For each misapplication of GAAP described in
     Item 7 MD Restatement,  we have
    assessed the applicable accounting policy and implemented new
    processes
     and/or 
    technology to ensure the appropriate application of GAAP. In
    addition, as described above in our discussion of remediation
    activities relating to our accounting policy function under
     Control Environment Accounting Policy,  we have
    completed a full assessment of all of our accounting policies
    and have revised these accounting policies to ensure their
    compliance with GAAP. We now maintain a written set of
    GAAP-compliant financial accounting policies. All of these
    accounting policies have been documented and communicated to the
    appropriate accounting functions. Staff in the accounting policy
    function has worked closely with each of the business units and
    financial reporting to ensure accurate accounting policy
    interpretation and to address new or emerging accounting policy
    issues. In addition, accounting standard-setting developments
    are actively monitored, with implementation impacts researched
    in coordination with the Controller s department, business
    unit personnel and other divisions that would be impacted.
    Additionally, accounting policy is actively engaged in new
    product and process approval to ensure that the correct
    accounting policy decisions are reached and implemented.

Further, as described above in our discussion of remediation
    activities relating to our accounting/finance staffing levels
    under  Control Environment Accounting/Finance Staffing
    Levels,  we have increased the number of full time
    employees in our accounting function. This staffing increase and
    the related separation of duties have improved the controls
    relating to our process for determining, monitoring,
    disseminating, implementing and updating GAAP. Additionally, we
    have enhanced our technology processes to ensure that our
    systems are operating in a manner consistent with our accounting
    policies.

Financial
    Reporting Process   

Financial Statement Preparation and Reporting 

As discussed above, we have completed an assessment of our
    organizational structure and staffing needs. We hired a new
    Controller from outside the company to oversee the financial
    statement preparation and reporting process. We have redesigned
    our financial reporting processes and, where necessary,
    technology, resulting in the successful generation of the
    consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K. 
    This redesigned process also includes requirements for
    appropriate review and approval of the consolidated financial
    statements by qualified accounting personnel.

To further enhance our internal controls relating to financial
    statement preparation and reporting, we created a new financial
    controls and systems group within our Controller s
    department focused solely on improving our accounting systems
    and internal control framework in order to ensure that our
    accounting function properly supports our internal control over
    financial reporting. The financial controls and systems group
    has responsibility for designing, implementing and monitoring
    controls within the Controller s department. Additionally,
    the group is responsible for managing the development, testing
    and deployment of new accounting systems and ensuring those
    systems have adequate controls and documentation.

208

Table of Contents   

Disclosure Controls 

As discussed under  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
    Procedures  above, we have made progress in improving our
    disclosure controls and procedures. However, we believe that
    this material weakness will not be remediated until we are able
    to file required reports with the SEC and the NYSE on a timely
    basis.

General Ledger Controls 

We have implemented review and approval controls to manage the
    addition and deletion of general ledger accounts. We have
    strengthened supervisory review controls over account management
    and the periodic close process.

Journal Entry Controls 

We have redesigned our journal entry creation and approval
    process. The new process includes additional training on the
    creation of journal entries, required journal entry support and
    the requirements for the review and approval of journal entries.
    Additional controls were added to specify thresholds for journal
    entry approval and ongoing monitoring of journal entry
    generation and compliance.

Reconciliation Controls 

We have implemented a redesigned process to ensure that all of
    our general ledger accounts are reconciled on a timely basis. We
    have assigned primary and supervisory account management
    responsibility for all of our general ledger accounts.
    Reconciliation completion, review and issue management is
    monitored each month to ensure compliance with our policies. We
    have also identified all other corporate data reconciliations
    for processes related to internal control over financial
    reporting. For those reconciliations, we have assigned primary
    and supervisory responsibility and are tracking completion,
    review and issue management.

Information
    Technology Applications and Infrastructure   

Access Control 

We have designed and implemented procedures and technology to
    control access to all of the applications that are material to
    our financial reporting process. Such procedures include
    standard request, approval and review controls over any addition
    or deletion to system access. In addition, we perform regular,
    periodic monitoring of authorized users to ensure that only
    authorized users have access to systems and that such access is
    commensurate with current job responsibilities. We also log and
    monitor all user activity to ensure that only authorized users
    are accessing the system and only authorized changes are being
    made.

Change Management 

We have designed and implemented procedures to control changes
    to all of the applications that are material to our financial
    reporting process. Such procedures include standard request,
    approval and review controls over any system or data change.
    Significant changes are managed through a governance committee
    of corporate representatives from technology and business unit
    management. In addition, we have implemented reconciliation or
    user controls to ensure that the desired change was implemented
    as intended. As discussed above, we also log and monitor all
    user activity to ensure that only authorized users are accessing
    the system and only authorized changes are being made.

End User Computing 

We have designed and implemented procedures to control access
    and changes to our EUCs. These procedures have included:

identification of all EUCs that could be material to our
    financial reporting;

protecting EUCs through maintenance on a controlled platform
    within our IT infrastructure where EUC access can be controlled
    using a process similar to the corporate application access
    process;

209

Table of Contents   

EUC version control; and

data change control.

Independent
    Model Review Process   

A corporate model policy was approved in September 2005 that
    established an independent model review process that assesses on
    a regular basis whether the models and assumptions were
    appropriate and whether outputs were calculated accurately
    according to the model specifications. We have established an
    independent model review function that reports directly to the
    Chief Risk Officer. Many of the models that resulted in errors
    in the past are no longer being used to generate financial data.
    As of the date of this filing, we have reviewed our most
    critical financial models pursuant to our new independent model
    review process.

Treasury
    and Trading Operations   

We have redesigned our process for authorizing, approving,
    validating and settling trades, including segregating duties
    among trading, settlement and valuation activities within both
    our treasury and trading operations. In addition, with the
    assistance of an independent consulting firm, we have assessed
    the organizational design of our treasury and trading
    operations, and we are in the process of implementing changes in
    those functions.

Pricing
    and Independent Price Verification   

We have redesigned our process for pricing our financial
    instruments. The process includes supervisory review over data
    inputs, model outputs and computational accuracy. In addition,
    we have implemented independent validation controls over
    methodologies and verification of pricing using risk-based
    statistical sampling techniques.

Wire
    Transfer Controls   

We have redesigned our process and controls over financial
    reporting related to our wire transfer activity. Specifically,
    we implemented system changes, developed multiple department
    policies and created a cross functional team to develop
    enhancements to our wire transfer process and controls. As a
    result, we have enhanced our access controls by segregating the
    wire initiation and wire system access functions, implemented a
    periodic access review process and strengthened our access
    approval procedures. We have eliminated manual wires from our
    standard procedures and have reduced our list of approved wire
    counterparties. We have also increased business unit staffing
    levels and hired an external consultant to provide best practice
    and industry standards guidance.

210

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Fannie Mae:

We were engaged to audit management s assessment regarding
    the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
    of Fannie Mae (the  Company ) as of December 31,
    2004. The Company s management is responsible for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting.

As described in the accompanying  Management s Report on
    Internal Control over Financial Reporting , the Company:
    (1) did not engage us until after December 31, 2004;
    (2) made significant changes in personnel responsible for
    internal control over financial reporting prior to the
    commencement of our work, and (3) made extensive changes to
    internal control over financial reporting that had been in place
    as of December 31, 2004 prior to the commencement of our
    fieldwork. Accordingly, we are unable to perform sufficient
    auditing procedures necessary to form an opinion on
    management s assessment.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
    company s principal executive and principal financial
    officers, or persons performing similar functions, and affected
    by the company s board of directors, management, and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
    financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
    improper management override of controls, material misstatements
    due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
    timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of
    effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting
    to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
    become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
    degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
    deteriorate.

A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination
    of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote
    likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim
    financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Numerous
    pervasive material weaknesses have been identified and included
    in the accompanying  Management s Report on Internal
    Control over Financial Reporting.  The nature of these
    weaknesses is described below:

Control Environment   The Company did not
    maintain an effective control environment related to internal
    control over financial reporting. Specifically, the control
    environment lacked the following controls which represent
    material weaknesses: a consistent and proper tone at the top, a
    comprehensive set of financial accounting policies, clearly
    defined roles and responsibilities of executive management and
    the board of directors, a comprehensive and independent risk
    oversight function, an effective and independent Internal Audit
    function, a human resources function with clear enterprise-wide
    coordination, a comprehensive and centrally coordinated
    enterprise-wide fraud risk management program, a trusted
    whistleblower program, appropriate accounting/finance staffing
    levels, clearly communicated information technology policies and
    procedures, and adequate transactional policies and procedures.

Application of Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in
    the United States of America   The Company did not
    maintain effective internal control relating to its process and
    information technology applications

211

Table of Contents   

for determining, monitoring, disseminating, implementing and
    updating accounting policies that complied with accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Financial Reporting Process   The Company did
    not maintain an effective, timely and accurate financial
    reporting process, including a lack of timely and complete
    financial statement reviews, effective disclosure controls and
    procedures, general ledger and journal entry controls, and
    appropriate reconciliation processes.

Information Technology Applications and
    Infrastructure   The Company did not maintain
    effective internal control related to information technology
    applications and infrastructure, including access controls,
    change management controls, and controls over end user computing
    including spreadsheets.

Independent Model Review Process   The design
    of internal control did not provide for independent review that
    accounting related models and assumptions were appropriate and
    that outputs were calculated accurately according to model
    specifications.

Treasury and Trading Operations   The design of
    internal control was inadequate with respect to the process of
    authorizing, approving, validating, and settling trades,
    including inadequate segregation of duties among trading,
    settlement, and valuation activities within both the treasury
    and trading operations.

Pricing and Independent Price Verification
    Processes   The design of internal control was
    inadequate with respect to the process used to price assets and
    liabilities, and did not maintain appropriate segregation of
    duties between the pricing function and the function responsible
    for independently verifying such prices.

Wire Transfer Controls   The design of internal
    control was insufficient with respect to the initiation,
    authorization, segregation of duties and anti-fraud measures
    related to wire transfer transactions and with respect to the
    reconciliation of cash balances and wire transfer activity.

Due to the nature of these weaknesses: the consolidated
    financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003
    and 2002 were restated to correct numerous significant
    misstatements related to debt and derivatives, commitments,
    investments in securities, trust consolidation and sale
    accounting, financial guaranties and master servicing,
    amortization of cost basis adjustments, and other items; the
    consolidated financial statements for the year ended
    December 31, 2004 and the quarter ended September 30,
    2004 were not filed timely; and, there is more than a remote
    likelihood that a material misstatement to the Company s
    financial statements might not be detected and prevented by the
    Company s internal controls over financial reporting. These
    material weaknesses were considered in determining the nature,
    timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the
    consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended
    December 31, 2004, of the Company and this report does not
    affect our report on such consolidated financial statements.

Because of the limitation on the scope of our audit described in
    the second paragraph of this report, the scope of our work was
    not sufficient to enable us to express, and we do not express,
    an opinion on management s assessment referred to above. In
    our opinion, because of the effect of the material weaknesses,
    summarized above and described in  Management s Report on
    Internal Control over Financial Reporting , on the
    achievement of the objectives of the control criteria and the
    effects of any other material weaknesses, if any, that we might
    have identified if we had been able to perform sufficient
    auditing procedures necessary to form an opinion on
    management s assessment, the Company has not maintained
    effective internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2004, based on the criteria established in
     Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
    Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended
    December 31, 2004, of the Company and have issued our
    report dated December 6, 2006 that expressed an unqualified
    opinion on those financial statements and included an
    explanatory paragraph relating to the restatement of the
    Company s 2002 and 2003 consolidated financial statements.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Washington, DC 

December 6, 2006

212

Table of Contents   

Item 9B.    

Other
    Information  

None.

PART III  

Item 10.    

Directors
    and Executive Officers of the Registrant  

Directors  

Our current directors are listed below. They have provided the
    following information about their principal occupation, business
    experience and other matters.

Stephen B. Ashley , 66, has been Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer of The Ashley Group, a group of commercial and
    multifamily real estate, brokerage and investment companies,
    since 1995. The Ashley Group is comprised of S.B. Ashley
    Management Corporation, S.B. Ashley Brokerage Corporation and
    S.B. Ashley & Associates Venture Company, LLC. From
    1991 to 1995, Mr. Ashley served as Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer of Sibley Mortgage Corporation, a commercial,
    multifamily and single-family mortgage banking firm, and Sibley
    Real Estate Services, Inc. Mr. Ashley is a past President
    of the Mortgage Bankers Association of America and has over
    40 years of experience in the real estate and real estate
    financing industries. Mr. Ashley also serves as a director
    of The Genesee Corporation and Exeter Fund, Inc. In addition,
    Mr. Ashley serves as a trustee of Cornell University.
    Mr. Ashley has been a Fannie Mae director since May 1995
    and Chairman of Fannie Mae s Board since December 2004.

Dennis R. Beresford , 68, has served as Ernst &
    Young Executive Professor of Accounting at the J.M. Tull School
    of Accounting, Terry College of Business, University of Georgia
    since 1997. From 1987 to 1997, Mr. Beresford served as
    Chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB,
    the designated organization in the private sector for
    establishing standards of financial accounting and reporting in
    the United States. From 1961 to 1986, Mr. Beresford was
    with Ernst & Young LLP, including ten years as a Senior
    Partner and National Director of Accounting. Mr. Beresford
    is a member of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Audit
    Committee of Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Legg Mason, Inc.
    Mr. Beresford is a certified public accountant.
    Mr. Beresford has been a Fannie Mae director since May 2006.

Kenneth M. Duberstein , 62, has been Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer of The Duberstein Group, Inc., an independent
    strategic planning and consulting company, since 1989. He served
    as Chief of Staff to the President of the United States from
    1988 to 1989. Mr. Duberstein also serves as a director of
    The Boeing Company, ConocoPhillips, Inc., Mack-Cali Realty
    Corporation and The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc.
    Mr. Duberstein has been a Fannie Mae director since May
    1998.

Brenda J. Gaines , 57, served as President and Chief
    Executive Officer of Diners Club North America, a subsidiary of
    Citigroup, from October 2002 until her retirement in April 2004.
    She served as President, Diners Club North America, from
    February 1999 to September 2002. From 1988 until her appointment
    as President, she held various positions within Diners Club
    North America, Citigroup and Citigroup s predecessor
    corporations. She also served as Deputy Chief of Staff for the
    Mayor of the City of Chicago from 1985 to 1987 and as Chicago
    Commissioner of Housing from 1983 to 1985. In addition,
    Ms. Gaines serves as a director of CNA Financial
    Corporation, Office Depot, NICOR, Inc. and Tenet Healthcare
    Corporation. Ms. Gaines has been a Fannie Mae director
    since September 2006.

Thomas P. Gerrity , 65, has been Professor of Management
    since 1990, and was Dean from June 1990 to July 1999, of The
    Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He was
    President of CSC Consulting and Vice President of Computer
    Sciences Corporation from May 1989 to June 1990 and Chairman and
    Chief Executive Officer of Index Group, Inc., from 1969 to 1989.
    Mr. Gerrity also serves as a director of
    CVS Corporation, Internet Capital Group, Inc., Sunoco, Inc.
    and Hercules, Inc. Mr. Gerrity has been a Fannie Mae
    director since September 1991.

Karen N. Horn, Ph.D. , 63, is a Senior Managing
    Director of Brock Capital Group LLC, an advisory and investment
    firm, a position she has held since 2003. She served as Managing
    Director, Private Client Services

213

Table of Contents   

of Marsh Inc., a subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan
    Companies, Inc., from 1999 until her retirement in 2003. She
    served as Senior Managing Director and Head of International
    Private Banking at Bankers Trust Company from 1996 to 1999, as
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bank One, Cleveland, from
    1987 to 1996 and as President of the Federal Reserve Bank of
    Cleveland from 1982 to 1987. Ms. Horn is a director of Eli
    Lilly and Company and Simon Property Group, Inc. and a director
    or trustee of all T. Rowe Price funds and trusts. She also
    serves as a vice-chairman of the U.S. Russia Investment
    Fund, a presidential appointment. Ms. Horn has been a
    Fannie Mae director since September 2006.

Bridget A. Macaskill , 58, is the Principal of BAM
    Consulting LLC, an independent financial services consulting
    firm, which she founded in 2003. Ms. Macaskill has been
    providing consulting services to the financial services industry
    since 2001. Ms. Macaskill previously held several positions
    at Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. including serving as Chairman of the
    Board from 2000 to 2001, Chief Executive Officer from 1995 to
    2001 and President from 1991 to 2000. Ms. Macaskill is a
    director of Prudential plc. She also serves on the Board of
    Trustees of the College Retirement Equities Fund (CREF) and the
    TIAA-CREF Funds. Ms. Macaskill has been a Fannie Mae
    director since December 2005.

Daniel H. Mudd , 48, has served as President and Chief
    Executive Officer of Fannie Mae since June 2005. Mr. Mudd
    previously served as Vice Chairman of Fannie Mae s Board of
    Directors and interim Chief Executive Officer, from December
    2004 to June 2005, and as Vice Chairman and Chief Operating
    Officer from February 2000 to December 2004. Prior to his
    employment with Fannie Mae, Mr. Mudd was President and
    Chief Executive Officer of GE Capital, Japan, a diversified
    financial services company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
    General Electric Company, from April 1999 to February 2000. He
    also served as President of GE Capital, Asia Pacific, from May
    1996 to June 1999. Mr. Mudd also serves as a director of
    Ryder System, Inc. Mr. Mudd has been a Fannie Mae director
    since February 2000.

Joe K. Pickett , 61, retired from HomeSide International,
    Inc. in 2001, where he had served as Chairman since 1996. He
    also served as Chief Executive Officer of HomeSide
    International, Inc. from 1996 to 2001. HomeSide International
    was the parent of HomeSide Lending, Inc., a mortgage banking
    company that was previously known as BancBoston Mortgage
    Corporation. Mr. Pickett also served as Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer of HomeSide Lending from 1990 to 1999.
    Mr. Pickett is a past President of the Mortgage Bankers
    Association of America. Mr. Pickett has been a Fannie Mae
    director since May 1996.

Leslie Rahl , 56, is the founder of and has been President
    of Capital Market Risk Advisors, Inc., a financial advisory firm
    specializing in risk management, hedge funds and capital market
    strategy, since 1994. Previously, Ms. Rahl spent
    19 years at Citibank, including nine years as Vice
    President and Division Head, Derivatives Group North
    America. She is currently a director of the International
    Association of Financial Engineers, the Fischer Black Memorial
    Foundation, MIT Investment Management Company, New York State
    Common Investment Advisory Committee and High Water Women. She
    is a former director of the International Swaps Dealers
    Association. Ms. Rahl has been a Fannie Mae director since
    February 2004.

Greg C. Smith , 55, retired March 1, 2006 from Ford
    Motor Company, or Ford, where he had served as Vice Chairman
    since October 2005. Mr. Smith held several positions at
    Ford including serving as the Executive Vice President and
    President, The Americas, from 2004 to 2005. He was Group Vice
    President of Ford and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
    Ford Motor Credit Company, or Ford Credit, an indirect,
    wholly-owned subsidiary of Ford, from 2002 to 2004. He also
    served as the Chief Operating Officer of Ford Credit from 2001
    to 2002, and President, Ford Credit North America from 1997 to
    2001. Mr. Smith is a former Chairman of the American
    Financial Services Association. He has been a Fannie Mae
    director since April 2005.

H. Patrick Swygert , 63, has been President of Howard
    University since 1995. He also serves as a director of Hartford
    Financial Services Group, Inc. and United Technologies
    Corporation. In addition, Mr. Swygert is a member of the
    Brown v. Board of Education
    50 th  Anniversary
    Commission and a member of the Central Intelligence Agency
    External Advisory Board. Mr. Swygert has been a Fannie Mae
    director since January 2000.

214

Table of Contents   

John K. Wulff , 58, has been the non-executive Chairman of
    the Board of Hercules Incorporated, a manufacturer and supplier
    of specialty chemical products, since December 2003.
    Mr. Wulff was first elected as a director of Hercules in
    July 2003, and served as interim Chairman from October 2003 to
    December 2003. Mr. Wulff also served as a member of the
    FASB from July 2001 until June 2003. From 1996 until 2001,
    Mr. Wulff was Chief Financial Officer of Union Carbide
    Corporation, a chemicals and polymers company.  In addition to
    serving as a director of Hercules Incorporated, Mr. Wulff
    is a director of Sunoco, Inc., Celanese Corporation and
    Moody s Corporation. Mr. Wulff has been a Fannie Mae
    director since December 2004.

Corporate
    Governance  

Under the Charter Act, our Board of Directors consists of
    18 directors, 5 of whom are appointed by the President of
    the United States. The terms of the most recent Presidential
    appointees to Fannie Mae s Board expired on May 25,
    2004 and the President declined to reappoint or replace them.
    Pursuant to the Charter Act, those five Board positions will
    remain open unless and until the President names new appointees.

Fannie Mae s bylaws provide that each director holds office
    for the term to which he or she was elected or appointed and
    until his or her successor is chosen and qualified or until he
    or she dies, resigns, retires or is removed from office in
    accordance with the law, whichever occurs first. Under the
    Charter Act, each director is elected or appointed for a term
    ending on the date of our next stockholders  meeting.

Director
    Independence   

Our Board of Directors, with the assistance of the Nominating
    and Corporate Governance Committee, has reviewed the
    independence of all current board members under the listing
    standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, and the
    standards of independence adopted by the Board, as set forth in
    our Corporate Governance Guidelines and outlined below. It is
    the policy of our Board of Directors that a substantial majority
    of our seated directors will be independent in accordance with
    these standards.

Our Board of Directors has affirmatively determined that the
    following current Board members are independent: Stephen Ashley,
    the non-executive Chairman, Dennis Beresford, Brenda Gaines,
    Thomas Gerrity, Karen Horn, Bridget Macaskill, Joe Pickett,
    Leslie Rahl, Greg Smith, Patrick Swygert and John Wulff. Board
    members Daniel Mudd, our President and Chief Executive Officer,
    and Kenneth Duberstein are not independent.

Under the standards of independence adopted by our board, which
    meet and in some respects exceed the definition of independence
    adopted by the NYSE, an  independent director  must be
    determined to have no material relationship with us, either
    directly or through an organization that has a material
    relationship with us. A relationship is  material  if,
    in the judgment of the Board, it would interfere with the
    director s independent judgment. In addition, under the
    NYSE s listing requirements for audit committees, members
    of a company s audit committee must meet additional,
    heightened independence criteria, although our own independence
    standards require all independent directors to meet these
    criteria.

To assist it in determining whether a director is independent,
    our Board has adopted the standards set forth below:

A director will not be considered independent if, within the
    preceding five years:

the director was our employee; or

an immediate family member of the director was employed by us as
    an executive officer.

A director will not be considered independent if:

the director is a current partner or employee of our outside
    auditor, or within the preceding five years, was (but is no
    longer) a partner or employee of our outside auditor and
    personally worked on our audit within that time; or

an immediate family member of the director is a current partner
    of our outside auditor, or is a current employee of our outside
    auditor participating in the firm s audit, assurance or tax
    compliance (but not

215

Table of Contents   

tax planning) practice, or within the preceding five years, was
    (but is no longer) a partner or employee of our outside auditor
    and personally worked on our audit within that time.

A director will not be considered independent if, within the
    preceding five years:

the director was employed by a company at a time when one of our
    current executive officers sat on that company s
    compensation committee; or

an immediate family member of the director was employed as an
    officer by a company at a time when one of our current executive
    officers sat on that company s compensation committee.

A director will not be considered independent if, within the
    preceding five years:

the director received any compensation from us, directly or
    indirectly, other than fees for service as a director; or

an immediate family member of the director received any
    compensation from us, directly or indirectly, other than
    compensation received for service as our employee (other than an
    executive officer).

A director will not be considered independent if:

the director is a current executive officer, employee,
    controlling stockholder or partner of a corporation or other
    entity that does or did business with us and to which we made,
    or from which we received, payments within the preceding five
    years that, in any single fiscal year, were in excess of
    $1 million or 2% of the entity s consolidated gross
    annual revenues, whichever is greater; or

an immediate family member of the director is a current
    executive officer of a corporation or other entity that does or
    did business with us and to which we made, or from which we
    received, payments within the preceding five years that, in any
    single fiscal year, were in excess of $1 million or 2% of
    the entity s consolidated gross annual revenues, whichever
    is greater.

A director will not be considered independent if the director or
    the director s spouse is an executive officer, employee,
    director or trustee of a nonprofit organization to which we or
    the Fannie Mae Foundation makes contributions in any year in
    excess of 5% of the organization s consolidated gross
    annual revenues, or $100,000, whichever is less (amounts that
    the Fannie Mae Foundation contributes under our matching gifts
    program are not included in the contributions calculated for
    purposes of this standard). The Nominating and Corporate
    Governance Committee also will administer standards concerning
    any charitable contribution to organizations otherwise
    associated with a director or any spouse of a director. We are
    guided by our interests and that of our stockholders in
    determining whether and the extent to which we make charitable
    contributions.

After considering all the facts and circumstances, our Board may
    determine in its judgment that a director is independent (in
    other words, the director has no relationship with us that would
    interfere with the director s independent judgment), even
    though the director does not meet the standards listed above, so
    long as the determination of independence is consistent with the
    NYSE definition of  independence. 

Where the guidelines above do not address a particular
    relationship, the determination of whether the relationship is
    material, and whether a director is independent, will be made by
    our Board, based upon the recommendation of the Nominating and
    Corporate Governance Committee.

The Board has determined that all of our independent directors
    meet the director independence standards of our Corporate
    Governance Guidelines and the NYSE.

Our Board has an Audit Committee consisting of Dennis Beresford,
    who is the Chair, Stephen Ashley, Karen Horn, Greg Smith and
    John Wulff. The Board has determined that Messrs. Beresford
    and Wulff and Ms. Horn have the requisite experience to
    qualify as  audit committee financial experts  under
    the rules and regulations of the SEC and has designated them as
    such.

216

Table of Contents   

Corporate
    Governance Information, Committee Charters and Codes of
    Conduct   

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as the charters for
    standing Board committees, including our Board s Audit
    Committee, Compensation Committee, Compliance Committee and
    Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, are posted on our
    Web site, www.fanniemae.com, under  Corporate
    Governance. 

We have a Code of Conduct that is applicable to all officers and
    employees and a Code of Conduct and Conflict of Interests Policy
    for Members of the Board of Directors. Our Code of Conduct also
    serves as the code of ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and
    senior financial officers required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002 and implementing regulations of the SEC. These codes have
    been posted on our Web site, www.fanniemae.com, under
     Corporate Governance.  We will make disclosures by
    posting on our Web site any change to or waiver from these codes
    for any of our executive officers or directors.

Copies of these documents are also available in print to any
    stockholder who requests them.

Annual
    Certifications   

The NYSE listing standards require each listed company s
    chief executive officer to certify annually that he or she is
    not aware of any violation by the company of the NYSE s
    corporate governance listing standards, qualifying the
    certification to the extent necessary. Our Chief Executive
    Officer certification for 2005 contained qualifications relating
    to our failure to provide disclosure about our corporate
    governance in a proxy statement or annual report. We made these
    disclosures in a
     Form 8-K 
    filed May 25, 2006, and with that filing came into
    compliance with the NYSE corporate governance listing standards.

We have not yet filed annual consolidated financial statements
    for 2005, nor have we filed any related certifications by our
    Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer required by
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. With the filing of this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended 2004, we are filing our annual consolidated
    financial statements for 2004 and related certifications by our
    Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Executive
    Sessions   

Our non-management directors meet regularly in executive session
    without management present. Time for an executive session is
    reserved at every regularly scheduled board meeting. The
    non-executive Chairman of the Board, Mr. Ashley, typically
    presides over these sessions.

Communications
    with Directors   

Interested parties wishing to communicate any concerns or
    questions about us to the non-executive Chairman of the Board or
    to our non-management directors as a group may do so by
    electronic mail addressed to  board@fanniemae.com,  or
    by U.S. mail addressed to Fannie Mae Directors,
    c/o Office of the Secretary, Fannie Mae, Mail Stop
    1H-2S/05, 3900 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC
     20016-2892. 
    Communications may be addressed to a specific director or
    directors, including Mr. Ashley, the Chairman of the Board,
    or to groups of directors, such as the independent or
    non-management directors.

As approved by the Board, including the non-management
    directors, the Office of the Secretary is responsible for
    processing all communications received through these procedures
    and for forwarding communications to the appropriate director or
    directors. All communications addressed to Board members will be
    forwarded directly to Board members.

Any stockholder who wishes to submit a candidate for director
    for consideration by the Nominating and Corporate Governance
    Committee should submit a written notice to Fannie Mae Director
    Nominees, c/o Office of the Secretary, Fannie Mae, Mail
    Stop 1H-2S/05, 3900 Wisconsin Avenue, NW, Washington, DC
     20016-2892. 

Executive
    Officers  

Our current executive officers who are not also members of the
    Board of Directors are listed below. They have provided the
    following information about their principal occupation, business
    experience and other matters.

217

Table of Contents   

Kenneth J. Bacon , 52, has been Executive Vice
    President Housing and Community Development since July
    2005. He was interim head of Housing and Community Development
    from January 2005 to July 2005. He was Senior Vice
    President Multifamily Lending and Investment from May 2000
    to January 2005, and Senior Vice President American
    Communities Fund from October 1999 to May 2000. From August 1998
    to October 1999 he was Senior Vice President of the Community
    Development Capital Corporation. He was Senior Vice President of
    Fannie Mae s Northeastern Regional Office in Philadelphia
    from May 1993 to August 1998. Mr. Bacon is a director of
    Comcast Corporation, Fannie Mae Foundation, Corporation for
    Supportive Housing, Maret School and Communities In School. He
    is a member of the Executive Leadership Council and the Real
    Estate Round Table.

Robert T. Blakely , 64, has been Executive Vice President
    and Chief Financial Officer since January 2006. Prior to joining
    Fannie Mae, Mr. Blakely was Executive Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer of MCI, Inc.
    since April 2005, and Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of MCI from April 2003 to April 2005. Prior to
    that date, he was President of Performance Enhancement Group,
    Inc., a business development services firm, from July 2002 to
    April 2003; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
    of Lyondell Chemical Company from November 1999 to June 2002 and
    Executive Vice President of Tenneco, Inc. from 1996 to November
    1999 and Chief Financial Officer from 1981 to November 1999.
    Mr. Blakely was also a Member of the Financial Accounting
    Standards Advisory Council from 1999 to November 2003.
    Mr. Blakely is a director of Natural Resources Partners
    L.P. and Westlake Chemicals Corporation. Mr. Blakely joined
    Fannie Mae in January 2006.

Enrico Dallavecchia , 44, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Risk Officer since June 2006. Prior to
    joining Fannie Mae, Mr. Dallavecchia was with JP Morgan
    Chase, where he served as Head of Market Risk for Retail
    Financial Services, Chief Investment Office and Asset Wealth
    Management from April 2005 to May 2006 and as Market Risk
    Officer for Global Treasury, Retail Financial Services, Credit
    Cards and Proprietary Positioning Division and Co-head of Market
    Risk Technology, the group responsible for developing,
    implementing and maintaining the firm-wide market risk
    measurement systems, from December 1998 to March 2005.

Linda K. Knight , 56, has been Executive Vice
    President Capital Markets since March 2006. Prior to her
    present appointment, Ms. Knight served as Senior Vice
    President and Treasurer from February 1993 to March 2006, and
    Vice President and Assistant Treasurer from November 1986 to
    February 1993. Ms. Knight held the position of Director,
    Treasurer s Office from November 1984 to November 1986.
    Ms. Knight joined Fannie Mae in August 1982 as a senior
    market analyst.

Robert J. Levin , 51, has been Executive Vice President
    and Chief Business Officer since November 2005. Mr. Levin
    was Fannie Mae s interim Chief Financial Officer from
    December 2004 to January 2006. Prior to that position,
    Mr. Levin was the Executive Vice President of Housing and
    Community Development from June 1998 to December 2004. From June
    1990 to June 1998, he was Executive Vice
    President Marketing. Mr. Levin joined Fannie Mae in
    1981.

Thomas A. Lund , 48, has been Executive Vice
    President Single-Family Mortgage Business since July 2005.
    He was interim head of Single-Family Mortgage Business from
    January 2005 to July 2005 and Senior Vice President Chief
    Acquisitions Office from January 2004 to January 2005.
    Mr. Lund has served as Senior Vice President Investor
    Channel from August 2000 to January 2004; Senior Vice
    President Southwestern Regional Office, Dallas, Texas from
    July 1996 to July 2000; and Vice President for marketing from
    January 1995 to July 1996.

Rahul N. Merchant,  50, has been Executive Vice President
    and Chief Information Officer since November 2006. Prior to
    joining Fannie Mae, Mr. Merchant was with Merrill
    Lynch & Co., where he served as Head of Global Business
    Technology from 2004 to 2006 and as Head of Global Business
    Technology for Merrill Lynch s Global Markets and
    Investment Banking division from 2000 to 2004. Before joining
    Merrill, he served as Executive Vice President at Dresdner,
    Kleinwort and Benson, a global investment bank, from 1998 to
    2000. He also previously served as Senior Vice President at
    Sanwa Financial Products and First Vice President at Lehman
    Brothers, Inc. Mr. Merchant serves on the board of advisors
    of the American India Foundation.

218

Table of Contents   

Peter S. Niculescu , 47, has been Executive Vice
    President Capital Markets (previously Mortgage Portfolio)
    since November 2002. Mr. Niculescu joined Fannie Mae in
    March 1999 as Senior Vice President Portfolio Strategy and
    served in that position until November 2002.

William B. Senhauser , 44, has been Senior Vice President
    and Chief Compliance Officer since December 2005. Prior to his
    present appointment, Mr. Senhauser was Vice President for
    Regulatory Agreements and Restatement from October 2004 to
    December 2005 and Vice President for Operating Initiatives,
    responsible for oversight of critical company-wide initiatives
    and management of special projects for the chief operating
    officer from January 2003 to September 2004. Mr. Senhauser
    joined Fannie Mae in 2000 as Vice President for Fair Lending.

Julie St. John , 55, has been Executive Vice President
    since July 2000. She served as Chief Information Officer from
    March 2004 to November 2006 and as Chief Technology Officer from
    July 2000 to March 2004. She served as Senior Vice
    President Mortgage Business Technology from November 1999
    to July 2000. She was Senior Vice President Guaranty and
    Franchise Technologies from November 1993 to November 1999.
    Ms. St. John joined Fannie Mae in 1990 as Vice President of
    Systems Development. Ms. St. John advised us in July 2006
    of her intention to retire from Fannie Mae. She has informed us
    that she intends to retire on December 15, 2006.

Beth A. Wilkinson , 44, has been Executive Vice
    President General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since
    February 2006. Prior to joining Fannie Mae, Ms. Wilkinson
    was a partner and co-chair, White Collar Practice Group for
    Latham & Watkins LLP, from 1998 to 2006. Before joining
    Latham, she served as a prosecutor and special counsel for
     U.S. v. McVeigh and Nichols  from 1996 to 1998.
    During her tenure at the Department of Justice,
    Ms. Wilkinson was appointed principal deputy of the
    Terrorism & Violent Crime Section in 1995, and served
    as Special Counsel to the Deputy Attorney General from 1995 to
    1996. Ms. Wilkinson also served as an Assistant
    U.S. Attorney in the Eastern District of New York from 1991
    to 1995. Prior to that time, Ms. Wilkinson was a Captain in
    the United States Army serving as an assistant to the general
    counsel of the Army for Intelligence & Special
    Operations from 1987 to 1991.

Michael J. Williams , 49, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Operating Officer since November 2005.
    Mr. Williams was Fannie Mae s Executive Vice President
    for Regulatory Agreements and Restatement from February 2005 to
    November 2005. He has been responsible for managing our overall
    effort to restate and reaudit Fannie Mae s financial
    statements since January 2005 and for fulfilling Fannie
    Mae s obligations under Fannie Mae s agreements with
    OFHEO since October 2004. Mr. Williams also served as
    President Fannie Mae eBusiness from July 2000 to February
    2005 and as Senior Vice
     President e-commerce 
    from July 1999 to July 2000. Prior to this, Mr. Williams
    served in various roles in the Single-Family and Corporate
    Information Systems divisions of the company. Mr. Williams
    joined Fannie Mae in 1991.

Under our bylaws, each executive officer holds office until his
    or her successor is chosen and qualified or until he or she
    resigns, retires or is removed from office.

Section 16(a)
    Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  

Our directors and officers file with the SEC reports on their
    ownership of our stock and on changes in their stock ownership.
    Based on a review of forms filed during 2004 or with respect to
    2004 and on representations from our directors and officers, we
    believe that all of our directors and officers filed all
    required reports and reported all holdings and transactions
    reportable during 2004 except as described below. In November
    and December 2006, each of the persons listed below filed an
    amended Form 4 or a Form 5 to report transactions that
    occurred prior to our initial registration with the SEC in March
    2003: Mr. Mudd and Mr. Pickett one transaction;
    Mr. Donilon five transactions; Mr. Adolfo Marzol,
    Ms. St. John and Mr. Williams seven transactions.
    In addition, the following persons did not report transactions
    occurring prior to our initial SEC registration:
    Ms. Spencer four transactions and
    Mr. Howard eight transactions. These transactions were
    inadvertently omitted from the officer or director s
    initial Form 4 filing. All of these transactions were
    reported on  Statements of Changes in Beneficial
    Ownership  that were posted on our Web site shortly after
    they took place. Mr. Williams  Form 5 also
    reported a holding that was inadvertently omitted from his
    Form 3.

219

Table of Contents   

Item 11.    

Executive
    Compensation  

Executive
    Compensation Information  

The following tables provide, for the periods stated,
    compensation information for those individuals who served as
    Chief Executive Officer during 2004 and our four other most
    highly compensated executive officers during 2004. We refer to
    these individuals below as the covered executives. Much of the
    information in the tables below has been previously provided in
     Form 8-Ks 
    we have filed. Information regarding 2004 salary, restricted
    stock awards and long-term incentive plan payouts for the
    covered executives other than Mr. Raines appeared in
     Form 8-Ks 
    we filed on January 21, 2005 and March 11, 2005.
    Mr. Raines  salary remained unchanged in 2004 from
    prior years, and he received no restricted stock award for 2004.
    Our
     Form 8-K 
    filed on January 21, 2005 also disclosed that our Board of
    Directors and its Compensation Committee determined that no cash
    bonuses would be paid for officers at the level of senior vice
    president or above for 2004.

We have provided compensation information for our Chief
    Executive Officer and our four other most highly compensated
    executive officers during 2005 in a
     Form 8-K 
    we are filing with the SEC today. Information in that
     Form 8-K 
    under the heading  Executive Compensation  is
    incorporated by reference into this
     Form 10-K. 

Summary
    Compensation Table   

The following table shows summary compensation information for
    the covered executives for 2004, 2003 and 2002.

(1)   

Positions indicated are the current
    position or, for departed executives, the most recently held
    position.

(2)   

Our executive compensation program
    is designed to tie a large portion of each officer s total
    compensation to performance. An executive officer s bonus
    generally is designed to reflect corporate and individual
    performance for the previous year. See also footnote
    (5) for information about long-term compensation.
     Salary  includes annual salary deferred to later
    years.  Bonus  includes amounts earned during the year
    under the Annual Incentive Plan.

(3)   

Other Annual
    Compensation  in 2004 includes $186,452 for the personal
    use of company transportation for Mr. Raines, which does
    not include an increase of approximately $5,600 in our federal
    income tax liability attributable to Mr. Raines 
    personal use of company airplane transportation.  Other
    Annual Compensation  for 2004 also includes a
     gross-up  for
    taxable income on insurance coverage provided by the company for
    the covered executives in the following amounts:
    Mr. Mudd $20,615; Mr. Levin $17,288;
    Ms. St. John $22,853; Mr. Williams $12,823;
    Mr. Donilon $21,943; and Mr. Raines $81,375.
     Other Annual Compensation  in 2003 includes $196,852
    for the personal use of company transportation for
    Mr. Raines, and, for Mr. Mudd, $80,400 for club membership
    fees agreed to by us in connection with recruiting him from his
    prior employment. It also includes $32,093 for residential
    security services

220

Table of Contents   

for each of Mr. Raines and
    Mr. Mudd and a
     gross-up  for
    taxable income on insurance coverage provided by the company for
    the covered executives in the following amounts:
    Mr. Mudd $1,066; Mr. Levin $851;
    Ms. St. John $846; Mr. Williams $717;
    Mr. Donilon $903; and Mr. Raines $2,503.
     Other Annual Compensation  in 2002 includes $123,539
    for personal use of company transportation for Mr. Raines,
    $39,525 for residential security services for Mr. Raines
    and Mr. Mudd and a
     gross-up  for
    taxable income on insurance coverage provided by the company for
    the covered executives in the following amounts:
    Mr. Mudd $1,358; Mr. Levin $950;
    Ms. St. John $1,064; Mr. Williams $865;
    Mr. Donilon $990; and Mr. Raines $3,160.

(4)   

Restricted stock awards and, in the
    case of Mr. Mudd, restricted stock unit awards made in
    March 2005 are reported as compensation for 2004. The shares and
    units vest over three years in equal annual installments.
    Dividends are paid on restricted common stock and dividend
    equivalents are paid on restricted stock units at the same rate
    as dividends on unrestricted common stock. As of
    December 31, 2004, the covered executives held a number of
    shares of unvested restricted common stock with an aggregate
    value based on closing price as follows:
    Mr. Mudd 5,000 shares, $356,050;
    Mr. Levin 2,920 shares, $207,933; Ms. St.
    John 1,000 shares, $71,210;
    Mr. Williams 1,000 shares, $71,210;
    Mr. Donilon 14,677 shares, $1,045,149;
    Mr. Raines held no shares. As of December 31, 2004,
    Mr. Mudd held no restricted stock units. The four covered
    executives who were employed by us as of December 31, 2005
    held shares of unvested restricted common stock and restricted
    stock units with an aggregate value based on the closing price
    on December 31, 2005 as follows:
    Mr. Mudd 127,476 shares, $6,222,104;
    Mr. Levin 56,339 shares, $2,749,907; Ms. St.
    John 34,548 shares, $1,686,288; and
    Mr. Williams 38,013 shares, $1,855,415.

(5)   

LTIP Payouts  relate to
    annual awards entitling executives to receive shares of common
    stock based upon and subject to our meeting corporate
    performance objectives over three-year periods. Generally, the
    Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors determines in
    January our achievement against the goals for the performance
    share cycle that just ended. That achievement determines the
    payout of the performance shares and the shares are paid out to
    current executives in two annual installments. Because we did
    not have reliable financial data for years within the award
    cycles, the Compensation Committee and the Board decided to
    postpone the determination of the amount of the awards under the
    performance share program for the three-year performance share
    cycles that ended in 2004 and 2005 and to postpone payment of
    the second installment of shares for the three-year performance
    share cycle that ended in 2003, the first installment of which
    was paid in January 2004. In the future, the Compensation
    Committee and the Board of Directors will review the performance
    share program and determine the appropriate approach for
    settling our obligations with respect to the existing unpaid
    performance share cycles.

(6)   

All Other Compensation 
    for each covered executive in 2004 includes a $6,150 employer
    matching contribution under the Retirement Savings Plan for
    Employees and premiums of $1,150 paid on behalf of each covered
    executive in 2004 for excess liability insurance coverage.
     All Other Compensation  for 2004 also includes
    premiums paid on behalf of each covered executive for universal
    life insurance coverage in the following amounts:
    Mr. Mudd $35,900; Mr. Levin $31,715;
    Ms. St. John $39,921; Mr. Williams $23,304;
    Mr. Donilon $38,286; and Mr. Raines $145,098.

(7)   

Mr. Donilon left Fannie Mae in
    April 2005.

(8)   

Mr. Raines ceased serving as
    an executive officer of Fannie Mae in December 2004, although
    under his employment agreement his retirement was not effective
    until June 2005.

Aggregated
    Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option
    Values  

The following table shows the aggregate number of shares
    underlying options exercised in 2004 and the value as of
    December 31, 2004 of
     in-the-money 
    outstanding options, whether or not exercisable.

(1)   

Value Realized  is the
    difference between the exercise price and the market price on
    the exercise date, multiplied by the number of options
    exercised.  Value Realized  numbers do not necessarily
    reflect what the executive might receive when he or she sells
    the shares acquired by the option exercise, since the market
    price of the shares at the time of sale may be higher or lower
    than the price on the exercise date of the option.

221

Table of Contents   

(2)   

Value of Unexercised
     In-the-Money 
    Options  is the aggregate, calculated on a
     grant-by-grant 
    basis, of the product of the number of unexercised options at
    the end of 2004 multiplied by the difference between the
    exercise price for the grant and the December 31, 2004
    closing price per share of Fannie Mae common stock of $71.21,
    excluding grants for which the exercise price equaled or
    exceeded $71.21. As of November 30, 2006, the closing price
    per share of Fannie Mae common stock was $57.03.

Retirement
    Plans  

Fannie
    Mae Retirement Plan   

The Federal National Mortgage Association Retirement Plan for
    Employees Not Covered Under Civil Service Retirement Law, which
    we refer to as the Retirement Plan, provides benefits for those
    eligible employees who are not covered by the federal Civil
    Service retirement law. Normal retirement benefits are computed
    on a single life basis using a formula based on final average
    annual earnings and years of credited service. Participants are
    fully vested when they complete five years of credited service.
    Since 1989, provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
    amended, have limited the amount of annual compensation that may
    be used for calculating pension benefits and the annual benefit
    that may be paid. For 2004, the statutory compensation and
    benefit caps were $205,000 and $165,000, respectively. Before
    1989, some employees accrued benefits based on higher income
    levels. For employees who retire before age 65, benefits
    are reduced by stated percentages for each year that they are
    younger than 65.

The covered executives had approximately the following years of
    credited service as of December 31, 2004: Mr. Levin,
    24 years; Mr. Mudd, 5 years; Ms. St. John,
    14 years; Mr. Williams, 14 years. At the
    effective time of his retirement, Mr. Raines had
    approximately 13 years of credited service. Upon his
    resignation, Mr. Donilon had approximately 5 years of
    credited service.

Because the Retirement Plan is coordinated with Social Security
    Covered Compensation as defined in Internal Revenue Service
    regulations, the benefits under the Retirement Plan are not
    subject to deductions for social security benefits or other
    offset amounts.

Supplemental
    Pension Plans   

We adopted the Supplemental Pension Plan to provide supplemental
    retirement benefits to employees who do not participate in or
    are not fully vested in the Executive Pension Plan and whose
    salary exceeds the statutory compensation cap applicable to the
    Retirement Plan or whose benefit under the Retirement Plan is
    limited by the statutory benefit cap applicable to the
    Retirement Plan. Separately, we adopted the 2003 Supplemental
    Pension Plan to provide additional benefits to our officers
    based on the annual cash bonuses received by our officers. For
    purposes of determining benefits under the 2003 Supplemental
    Pension Plan, the amount of an officer s annual cash bonus
    taken into account is limited to 50% of the officer s
    salary.

The benefits under the Fannie Mae supplemental pension plans are
    not subject to deductions for social security benefits or other
    offset amounts.

222

Table of Contents   

The following table shows the estimated annual benefits that
    would have been payable under the Retirement Plan and, if
    applicable, the supplemental pension plans to an employee who
    did not participate in or was not fully vested in the Executive
    Pension Plan and who turned 65 and retired on January 1,
    2005, using years of service accrued through January 1,
    2005.

Fannie
    Mae Retirement Plan and Supplemental Pension Plans  

Executive
    Pension Plan   

We adopted the Executive Pension Plan to supplement the benefits
    payable to key officers under the Retirement Plan. The
    Compensation Committee selects the participants in the Executive
    Pension Plan. Active participants in the Executive Pension Plan
    are Executive Vice Presidents. The Board of Directors sets their
    pension goal, which is part of the formula that determines the
    pension benefits for each participant. Mr. Mudd is also an
    active participant in the Executive Pension Plan. His pension
    goal was approved by the independent members of the Board of
    Directors. Payments are reduced by any amounts payable under the
    Retirement Plan and any amounts payable under the Civil Service
    retirement system attributable to our contributions for service
    with it.

Participants  pension benefits generally range from 30% to
    60% of the average total compensation for the 36 consecutive
    months of the participant s last 120 months of
    employment when total compensation was the highest. Total
    compensation generally is a participant s average annual
    base salary, including deferred compensation, plus the
    participant s other taxable compensation (excluding income
    or gain in connection with the exercise of stock options) earned
    for the relevant year, in an amount up to 50% of annual base
    salary for that year. However, under his current employment
    agreement, Mr. Mudd s total compensation for a given
    year includes other taxable compensation up to 100%, not 50%, of
    his annual base salary for that year.

Participants who retire before age 60 generally receive a
    reduced benefit. Participants typically vest fully in their
    pension benefit after ten years of service as a participant in
    the Executive Pension Plan, with partial vesting usually
    beginning after five years. The benefit payment typically is a
    monthly amount equal to 1/12th of the participant s annual
    retirement benefit payable during the lives of the participant
    and the participant s surviving spouse. If a participant
    dies before receiving benefits under the Executive Pension Plan,
    generally his or her surviving spouse will be entitled to a
    death benefit that begins when the spouse reaches age 55,
    based on the participant s pension benefit at the date of
    death.

223

Table of Contents   

Estimated
    Annual Pension Benefits   

Estimated annual benefits payable under our combined plans upon
    retirement for the covered executives, assuming full vesting at
    age 60 and that our corporate performance caused the
    participants  non-salary taxable compensation to equal or
    exceed 50% of annual base salary, were as follows as of
    December 31, 2004: Mr. Mudd (50% pension benefit),
    $637,500; Mr. Levin (40% pension benefit), $355,350;
    Ms. St. John (40% pension benefit), $298,110;
    Mr. Williams (40% pension benefit), $298,110. Under his
    current employment agreement, which did not go into effect until
    2005, Mr. Mudd s benefits under the Executive Pension
    Plan will take into account his non-salary taxable compensation
    in an amount up to 100% of his annual base salary, rather than
    50%. As of December 31, 2005, Mr. Mudd s
    estimated annual benefits payable upon retirement under our
    combined retirement plans, assuming full vesting at age 60
    and that our corporate performance caused his non-taxable
    compensation to equal or exceed 100% of his annual base salary,
    was $950,000. Mr. Raines  actual annual benefit upon
    retirement was $1,313,722. Mr. Donilon s annual
    benefit upon reaching age 55 will be $140,023. As discussed
    below under  Employment Agreement with Franklin Raines,
    Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  our Board of
    Directors has not made a final determination about the amounts
    to be paid, if any, to participants in certain PSP cycles, which
    may result in a related adjustment to Mr. Raines 
    annual pension benefits.

Employment
    Arrangements  

The employment contracts, termination of employment and
     change-in-control 
    arrangements that are currently in place for our covered
    executives are described below.

Severance
    Program   

On March 10, 2005, our Board of Directors approved a
    severance program that provides guidelines regarding the
    severance benefits that management level employees, including
    executive officers, may receive if their employment with us is
    terminated as a result of corporate restructuring,
    reorganization, consolidation, staff reduction, or other similar
    circumstances, and only where there are no performance related
    issues, and the termination has not been for cause. Eligible
    participants in the program receive a severance payment of one
    year s salary plus two to four weeks  salary (three to
    four weeks  salary in the case of executive officers) for
    each year of service with us up to a maximum of one and a half
    years  salary. Participants terminated after the first
    quarter of the fiscal year receive a pro rata payout of their
    annual cash incentive award target for that year, adjusted for
    corporate performance. Consistent with the terms of our stock
    compensation plans, the vesting of options scheduled to vest
    within 12 months of termination is accelerated and the
    post-termination exercise period of options is extended to the
    earlier of the option expiration date or 12 months
    following the termination of employment. Restricted stock and
    restricted stock unit awards granted under the Stock
    Compensation Plan of 2003 and vesting within 12 months of
    termination are subject to accelerated vesting, and unpaid
    performance shares for completed cycles are paid out. As
    provided under the terms of our stock compensation plans,
    participants in the severance program who have attained a
    certain age and service will receive additional accelerated
    vesting of their restricted stock and restricted stock units and
    options, in addition to the full option exercise period.
    Participants are required to execute a separation agreement to
    receive these benefits containing, where permitted, a one-year
    non-compete clause. The program also provides for outplacement
    services and continued access to our medical and dental plans
    for up to five years, with the first 18 months 
    premiums to remain at a level no higher than they would be if
    the participant were still an active employee. Employee
    eligibility for the program is determined by the Chairman of the
    Board, our highest ranking officer, or a designee of either. In
    addition, OFHEO s approval must be received prior to the
    program being offered to any OFHEO-designated executive officer.
    The program, which we described in a
     Form 8-K 
    filed on March 11, 2005, is scheduled to expire on
    December 31, 2006 and will be replaced with a program that
    will not apply to our executive officers.

224

Table of Contents   

Employment
    Agreement with Daniel Mudd, President and Chief Executive
    Officer   

On November 15, 2005, we entered into a new employment
    agreement with Mr. Mudd, effective June 1, 2005 when
    he was appointed our President and Chief Executive Officer. We
    described this agreement in a
     Form 8-K 
    filed on November 15, 2005. The major terms of the
    agreement are as follows:

Employment Term.   Through December 31,
    2009.

Base Salary.   Mr. Mudd s annual base
    salary will be no lower than $950,000. This base salary is
    subject to periodic review and possible increases, but not
    decreases, by the Board of Directors. Compensation arrangements
    for Mr. Mudd are determined annually by the Board of
    Directors (excluding Mr. Mudd and any other non-independent
    members of the Board) upon the recommendation of the
    Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
    Mr. Mudd s annual salary from June 1, 2005 was
    $950,000 and his 2006 salary remains the same.

Annual Bonus.   The amount of any cash bonus
    Mr. Mudd receives may be less than, equal to, or greater
    than his target amount, depending on corporate and individual
    performance, and subject to prior approval from OFHEO while the
    company is subject to its capital restoration plan.
    Mr. Mudd s annual cash bonus target award from
    June 1, 2005 was 275% of his base salary, and his bonus
    target award for 2006 remains the same.

Executive Pension Plan.   Mr. Mudd is
    entitled to participate in our Executive Pension Plan and our
    Supplemental Pension Plans described above. The Executive
    Pension Plan supplements the benefits payable to key officers
    under the Fannie Mae Retirement Plan. Mr. Mudd s
    employment agreement provides that his pension goal will be at
    least 50% of the average total compensation for the 36
    consecutive months of his last 120 months of employment
    when total compensation was the highest. Mr. Mudd s
    pension goal is currently set at 50%. Mr. Mudd s total
    compensation for a given year includes other taxable
    compensation up to 100%, not 50%, of his annual base salary for
    that year. If he retires before reaching age 60, his
    pension goal will be reduced by 3 percentage points, rather
    than the 2 percentage points reduction generally applicable
    to participants in the plan, for each year in which he receives
    benefits prior to age 60. In addition, if his benefit
    payment is in the form of a joint and 100% survivor annuity, it
    will be actuarially reduced to reflect the joint life expectancy
    of Mr. Mudd and his spouse.

Equity and Incentive Awards.   During the
    employment term, Mr. Mudd is eligible to be considered for
    awards under our stock option, restricted stock, annual
    incentive and performance share programs, all in accordance with
    our compensation philosophy and programs that are in effect from
    time to time. Under our capital restoration plan, we must obtain
    the approval of OFHEO prior to providing Mr. Mudd with any
    non-salary compensation awards.

Life Insurance.   During the employment term,
    Mr. Mudd is eligible to receive life insurance benefits in
    accordance with our life insurance policies and programs that
    are in effect from time to time.

Fringe Benefits.   Mr. Mudd is eligible to
    receive certain fringe benefits in accordance with our policies,
    including legal expenses incurred in negotiating his employment
    agreement and reimbursement for a complete annual physical
    examination. He is also eligible to participate generally in
    company benefit programs that are from time to time in effect
    and in which our other senior officers generally are entitled to
    participate.

Clawback.   Mr. Mudd s bonus and other
    incentive-based or equity-based compensation will be subject to
    reimbursement to us if required by Section 304 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or provisions of our compensation
    plans and arrangements, notwithstanding any provisions of the
    agreement to the contrary.

Mr. Mudd s employment agreement provides for certain
    benefits upon the termination of his employment with us
    depending on the reason for his termination:

Termination without Cause, for Good Reason or upon expiration
    of the agreement.   Mr. Mudd s employment
    agreement provides that if we terminate him without
     Cause,  or if Mr. Mudd terminates his

225

Table of Contents   

employment for any of the specified  Good Reason 
    events described below, or if Mr. Mudd s employment is
    terminated due to the expiration of the agreement term on
    December 31, 2009, he would be entitled to receive his
    accrued but unpaid base salary, base salary for the period
    through the second anniversary of the termination of his
    employment (subject to offset for income from other employment
    or self-employment, other than board service), all amounts
    payable (but unpaid) under our annual incentive plan with
    respect to any year ended on or prior to the date of termination
    of his employment, a prorated annual incentive plan payment for
    the year of termination, all amounts payable (but unpaid) under
    any performance share award with respect to a performance cycle
    that had ended as of the date of termination of his employment,
    a prorated performance share program payment for any performance
    cycle as to which at least 18 months had elapsed as of the
    date of termination, full vesting of any unvested restricted
    stock and stock options, for his stock options granted on or
    after the date of the employment agreement an exercise period of
    three years (or, if earlier, until the expiration date of the
    stock options), and, only in the cases of termination by us
    without  Cause  and termination by Mr. Mudd for a
     Good Reason,  medical and dental coverage for
    Mr. Mudd and his spouse and coverage for his dependents (so
    long as they remain his dependents or, if later, until they
    reach the age of 21), at no cost to Mr. Mudd, until the
    earlier of the second anniversary of the termination of his
    employment and the date on which Mr. Mudd obtains
    comparable coverage through another employer.

Termination due to serious illness or
    disability.   With the exception of the continued
    medical and dental coverage, the same benefits described above
    would be payable in the event Mr. Mudd s employment
    were to terminate by reason of serious illness or disability,
    subject to an offset against salary continuation for any
    employer-provided disability benefits.

Termination due to acceptance of senior position in
    U.S. federal government.   If Mr. Mudd
    terminates his employment by reason of his acceptance of an
    appointment to a senior position in the U.S. federal
    government, he will receive his accrued but unpaid base salary,
    all amounts payable (but unpaid) under our annual incentive plan
    with respect to any year ended on or prior to the date of
    termination of his employment, a prorated annual incentive plan
    payment for the year of termination, all amounts payable (but
    unpaid) under any performance share award with respect to a
    performance cycle that had ended as of the date of termination
    of his employment, a prorated performance share program payment
    for any performance cycle as to which at least 18 months
    had elapsed as of the date of termination, and full vesting of
    any unvested restricted stock.

Termination due to death.   In the event of
    Mr. Mudd s death during the employment term, his
    estate or beneficiary, as applicable, would be entitled to his
    accrued but unpaid base salary, all amounts payable (but unpaid)
    under the annual incentive plan for any year ended on or prior
    to his death, a prorated annual incentive plan payment for the
    year of death, all amounts payable (but unpaid) under any
    performance share award with respect to a performance cycle that
    had ended on or prior to the date of death, a prorated
    performance share program payment for any performance cycle as
    to which at least 18 months had elapsed prior to the date
    of death, full vesting of any unvested restricted stock and
    stock options, and for his stock options granted on or after the
    date of the employment agreement an exercise period of three
    years (or, if earlier, until the expiration date of the stock
    options).

Termination due to retirement.   In the event
    Mr. Mudd retires at or after age 65, or at an earlier
    age in certain situations, he would be entitled to receive his
    accrued but unpaid base salary, all amounts payable (but unpaid)
    under any performance share award with respect to a performance
    cycle that had ended as of the date of his retirement, a
    prorated performance share program payment for any performance
    cycle as to which at least 18 months had elapsed as of the
    date of his retirement, full vesting of any unvested stock
    options, for his stock options granted on or after the date of
    the employment agreement an exercise period of three years (or,
    if earlier, until the expiration date of the stock options),
    and, in the case of retirement at or after age 65, full
    vesting of any unvested restricted stock and, in the case of
    retirement at an earlier age, the Board may, in its discretion,
    fully vest any unvested restricted stock.

Voluntary termination and termination for
    Cause.   If Mr. Mudd is terminated for
     Cause  or if Mr. Mudd terminates his employment
    voluntarily (other than a voluntary termination with  Good
    Reason  as defined

226

Table of Contents   

in his agreement or a voluntary termination to accept an
    appointment to a senior position in the U.S. federal
    government), he would be entitled only to accrued but unpaid
    base salary plus such vested benefits or awards, if any, which
    have vested prior to such date; provided, however, that if he is
    terminated for  Cause,  he would not be entitled to
    any amounts payable (but unpaid) of any bonus or under any
    performance share award with respect to a performance cycle if
    the reason for such termination for  Cause  is
    substantially related to the earning of such bonus or to the
    performance over the performance cycle upon which the payment
    was based.

Mr. Mudd s employment agreement defines  Good
    Reason  as any of the following circumstances that remains
    uncured after 30 days notice: (a) a material reduction
    of his authority or a material change in his functions, duties
    or responsibilities that in any material way would cause his
    position to become less important, (b) a reduction in his
    base salary, (c) a requirement that he report to anyone
    other than the Chairman of the Board of Directors, (d) a
    requirement that he relocate his office outside of the
    Washington, DC area, or (e) our breach of any material
    obligation we have under the agreement. Under the agreement, we
    would have  Cause  if Mr. Mudd
    (A) materially harmed us by, in connection with his service
    under his employment agreement, engaging in dishonest or
    fraudulent actions or willful misconduct, or performing his
    duties in a grossly negligent manner, or (B) were convicted
    of, or pleaded  nolo contendere  with respect to, a felony.
    The agreement further provides that no act or failure to act
    will be considered  willful  unless it is done, or
    omitted to be done, in bad faith or without reasonable belief
    that the action or omission was in our best interests.

Mr. Mudd s employment agreement also obligates him not
    to compete with us in the United States, solicit any officer or
    employee of ours or our affiliates to terminate his or her
    relationship with us or to engage in prohibited competition, or
    to assist others to engage in activities in which Mr. Mudd
    would be prohibited from engaging, in each case for two years
    following termination. Mr. Mudd s employment agreement
    provides us with the right to seek and obtain injunctive relief
    from a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain Mr. Mudd
    from any actual or threatened breach of the obligations
    described in the preceding sentence. Disputes arising under the
    employment agreement are to be resolved through arbitration, and
    we bear Mr. Mudd s legal expenses unless he does not
    prevail.

Agreement
    with Robert Levin, Executive Vice President and Chief Business
    Officer   

We have a letter agreement with Mr. Levin, dated
    June 19, 1990. That agreement provides that if he is
    terminated for reasons other than for  cause,  he will
    continue to receive his base salary for a period of
    12 months from the date of termination and will continue to
    be covered by our life, medical, and long-term disability
    insurance plans for a
     12-month 
    period, or until re-employment that provides certain coverage
    for benefits, whichever occurs first. For the purpose of this
    agreement,  cause  means a termination based upon
    reasonable evidence that Mr. Levin has breached his duties
    as an officer by engaging in dishonest or fraudulent actions or
    willful misconduct. Any disability benefits that he receives
    during the
     12-month 
    period will reduce the amount otherwise payable by us, but only
    to the extent the benefits are attributable to payments made by
    us. A description of this letter agreement was included in a
     Form 8-K 
    we filed on December 27, 2004.

Employment
    Agreement with Franklin Raines, Former Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer   

In May 2004, we entered into a new employment agreement with
    Franklin Raines, our former Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer, as amended in June and again in September 2004. OFHEO
    approved the termination benefits in Mr. Raines 
    agreement and notified us of this approval on November 17,
    2004.

On December 21, 2004, Mr. Raines tendered his
    resignation and ceased performing his duties as Chairman and
    Chief Executive Officer. We described Mr. Raines 
    agreement and his compensation upon termination in our
    December 27, 2005
     Form 8-K 
    and in a Form 8-K we filed on November 14, 2006. On
    December 23, 2004, we received a letter from OFHEO
    informing us that OFHEO would review Mr. Raines 
    termination benefits and requesting information regarding those
    benefits. OFHEO indicated that, among other matters, it was
    concerned with whether, at the time of termination, there had
    been enhancements or modifications to benefits since the
    termination package was agreed upon. OFHEO also stated in the
    December 23 letter that we should not pay any termination
    benefits to Mr. Raines until OFHEO completed its review of
    the termination

227

Table of Contents   

benefits. To the extent certain payments have become legally due
    to Mr. Raines, we have informed OFHEO of the payments.

Although Mr. Raines ceased acting as our Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer as of December 21, 2004, he asserted that
    pursuant to his employment agreement his retirement was not
    effective until June 22, 2005, entitling him to an
    additional six months of service. Under his employment
    agreement, any dispute regarding the terms of the agreement is
    resolved through arbitration, with our bearing
    Mr. Raines  legal expenses unless he does not prevail.
    On September 19, 2005, Mr. Raines initiated
    arbitration proceedings against us before the American
    Arbitration Association. The principal issue before the
    arbitrator was whether we were permitted to waive the
    requirement contained in Mr. Raines  employment
    agreement that he provide six months  notice prior to
    retiring. On April 24, 2006, the arbitrator issued a
    decision finding that we could not unilaterally waive the notice
    period, and that the effective date of Mr. Raines s
    retirement was June 22, 2005. Because the Board of
    Directors has not made a final determination about the amounts
    to be paid, if any, to participants in certain PSP cycles, the
    parties cannot yet determine if there remain any disputes
    related to PSP payments. On November 7, 2006, the parties
    proposed to the arbitrator a partial consent award providing for
    a cash payment to Mr. Raines of approximately
    $2.6 million, reflecting a disbursement from his deferred
    compensation balance plus certain other sums, less certain
    offsetting items. The arbitrator approved the award on
    November 12, 2006. The parties have not yet reached an
    agreement on certain other calculations related to the change in
    the effective date of his retirement, as ordered by the
    arbitrator. These include whether Mr. Raines is entitled to
    as much as $140,000 in additional cash compensation over the
    six-month period preceeding his June 22, 2005 retirement
    date, and whether Mr. Raines is entitled to any additional
    bonus compensation and options by virtue of the change in
    retirement date. If we cannot reach an agreement, additional
    arbitration proceedings may ensue.

Pursuant to his employment agreement, in accordance with the
    arbitrator s conclusions and in accordance with our
    employee benefit plans, we have determined that Mr. Raines
    is entitled to receive the following:

Immediately prior to his retirement, Mr. Raines held vested
    and exercisable options to purchase a total of
    1,739,759 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging
    from $60.3125 to $80.95 per share. Upon his retirement, he
    vested in options to purchase an additional 257,131 shares
    of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $69.43 to
    $78.315. Under our stock compensation plans, all options held at
    the time of retirement by any option holder who is at least
    55 years old and who has at least 5 years of service
    with us remain exercisable until their initial expiration date,
    which is generally 10 years after grant. As a result,
    Mr. Raines  vested options, including those vesting by
    reason of his retirement, will expire between May 2008 and
    January 2014.

Under our Performance Share program, for the performance cycle
    completed in 2003, Mr. Raines was determined in January
    2004 to be entitled to receive 139,155 shares, of which he
    was paid 69,577 shares in January 2004 in accordance with
    the program. For the cycles concluding in 2004 through 2006,
    Mr. Raines was granted awards with the target, threshold
    and maximum share amounts listed in the table below, based on
    the achievement of the specified performance goals. However, as
    previously announced, because we did not have reliable financial
    data for years within the award cycles, the Compensation
    Committee and the Board of Directors decided to postpone the
    determination of the amount of the awards under the performance
    share program for the three-year performance share cycles that
    ended in 2004 and 2005 and to postpone payment of the second
    installment of shares for the three-year performance share cycle
    that ended in 2003 (the first installment of which was paid in
    January 2004). In the future, the Compensation Committee and the
    Board of Directors will review the performance share program and
    determine the amounts to be paid, if any, to participants in
    these PSP cycles.

228

Table of Contents   

If shares are paid out under the program for a given period, the
    number of shares Mr. Raines will receive will be reduced on
    a pro rata basis depending on the length of his service during
    the applicable award cycle.

Under our executive pension plan, estimated monthly payments of
    approximately $107,051 will be payable during the lives of
    Mr. Raines and his surviving spouse.

Under our qualified pension plan, Mr. Raines will receive
    approximately $2,640 per month during his life. After his
    death, Mr. Raines  wife will receive approximately
    $1,320 per month during her life.

Under our plans, Mr. Raines elected to defer the receipt of
    earned salary and other compensation. As of August 31,
    2006, Mr. Raines  deferred balance was approximately
    $8.5 million. As mentioned above, our Board of Directors
    has not made a final determination about the amounts to be paid,
    if any, to participants in certain PSP cycles, which may result
    in a related adjustment to Mr. Raines  deferred
    amounts. Pending payout, deferred amounts will be allocated by
    Mr. Raines among the hypothetical investment options in
    accordance with the plans and will receive a corresponding rate
    of return.

Mr. Raines is entitled to lifetime medical and dental
    coverage for himself and his spouse, and coverage for his
    dependents until they reach the age of 21 or so long as they
    remain his dependents, at no cost to Mr. Raines.

Consistent with our executive life insurance program, we will
    pay the premiums on a life insurance policy for Mr. Raines
    with a benefit of $5,000,000 until he reaches age 60, and a
    benefit of $2,500,000 thereafter.

Mr. Raines will receive retirement savings he has
    accumulated in our retirement savings plan (a 401(k) plan) in
    accordance with the terms of that plan.

Pursuant to his agreement, Mr. Raines is entitled to
    receive administrative services to support the provision of an
    office and related secretarial and administrative services
    during such time as he is not employed on a full-time basis.
    Mr. Raines must reimburse us for the fair market value of
    this benefit, including our cost of administration. He has not
    requested these services.

Separation
    Agreement with Julie St. John, Executive Vice
    President   

On July 7, 2006, we entered into a separation agreement
    with Ms. St. John. Ms. St. John has been engaged in
    the ongoing restructuring of our Enterprise Systems and
    Operations division. To allow us to obtain Ms. St.
    John s continued assistance with the restructuring and
    permit a smooth transition, Ms. St. John agreed to defer
    her departure. Ms. St. John has informed us that she
    intends to retire on December 15, 2006. The provisions of
    the separation relating to the terms of Ms. St. John s
    separation from Fannie Mae were approved by the Director of
    OFHEO, conditioned on our retention of any existing rights with
    respect to restitution, disgorgement, or other remedial action
    relating to matters contained in OFHEO s Report of the
    Special Examination of Fannie Mae, May 2006. We described this
    agreement in a
     Form 8-K 
    filed on July 7, 2006.

Under the separation agreement, and in accordance with the terms
    of the severance program for management level employees,
    Ms. St. John will be entitled to receive the compensation
    and benefits described below upon her separation.

Severance Payment.   For her 16 years of
    service, Ms. St. John will be entitled to 78 weeks of
    her current base pay, totaling $794,463.

Stock Options.   Ms. St. John will be
    entitled to accelerated vesting of options to purchase
    34,429 shares of common stock, at exercise prices ranging
    from $69.43 to $78.315 per share, that are scheduled to
    vest within 12 months of her termination date. Options she
    holds to purchase 18,470 shares of common stock at
    $78.315 per share will be cancelled. Under our stock
    compensation plans, all options held and vested at the time of
    retirement by any option holder who is at least 55 years
    old and who has at least 5 years of service with us remain
    exercisable until their original expiration date, which is
    generally 10 years after grant. As a result,
    Ms. St. John s vested options will expire between
    November 2007 and January 2014.

229

Table of Contents   

Restricted Stock.   Ms. St. John will be
    entitled to accelerated vesting of 16,935 shares of
    restricted stock that are scheduled to vest within
    12 months of her termination date.

Deferred Cash.   In February 2006, Ms. St.
    John was awarded a variable long-term incentive award for the
    2005 performance year, payable partly in cash and at a rate of
    25% per year beginning in January 2007. Ms. St. John
    will be entitled to a lump sum payment of $145,695, which
    represents the cash payment she would have received within
    12 months of her termination date.

Annual Cash Bonus.   If we pay bonuses under our
    Annual Incentive Plan for 2006, Ms. St. John will be
    entitled to a lump sum prorated bonus for 2006. The total amount
    of bonuses that may be paid under the Annual Incentive Plan to
    all eligible employees is typically determined based on the
    achievement of corporate goals.

Performance Share Payouts.   As a member of our
    senior management, Ms. St. John has received annual awards
    entitling her to receive shares of common stock based upon and
    subject to our meeting corporate performance objectives over
    three-year periods. Generally, the Compensation Committee of our
    Board determines in January our achievement against the goals
    for the three-year performance share cycle that just ended. That
    achievement determines the payout of the performance shares and
    the shares are paid out to current executives in two annual
    installments.

For the performance share cycle completed in 2003, Ms. St.
    John was determined in January 2004 to be entitled to receive
    23,850 shares of common stock, of which she has been paid
    11,925 shares in accordance with the program.

For the performance share cycles ending in 2004 through 2006,
    Ms. St. John has been granted awards with the target,
    threshold and maximum share amounts listed in the table below,
    based on the achievement of the specified performance goals.
    However, because we did not have reliable financial data for
    years within the award cycles, the Compensation Committee and
    the Board decided to postpone the determination of the amount of
    the awards under the performance share program for the
    three-year performance share cycles that ended in 2004 and 2005
    and to postpone payment of the second installment of shares for
    the three-year performance share cycle that ended in 2003 (the
    first installment of which was paid in January 2004). In the
    future, the Compensation Committee and the Board will review the
    performance shares program and determine the appropriate
    approach for settling our obligations with respect to the
    existing unpaid performance share cycles.

To the extent the Compensation Committee determines that
    performance share awards or any alternative payment in lieu of
    performance share awards are payable to any other Executive Vice
    President, Ms. St. John is entitled to receive payouts of
    any unpaid performance shares for cycles that have been
    completed on or before the date on which she ceases to be an
    employee. As a retiree, Ms. St. John also will be entitled
    to a payment for the performance share cycle ending in 2006,
    reduced on a pro rata basis based on the length of her service
    during the cycle ending in 2006.

Medical Coverage.   Ms. St. John will be
    entitled to continued access to our medical and dental plans for
    up to five years, and Fannie Mae will pay a portion of the
    premiums necessary to continue her existing medical
     and/or 
    dental coverage under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget
    Reconciliation Act, or COBRA, for up to 18 months after her
    termination. Ms. St. John also will be entitled to participate
    in the medical coverage plan available to our retirees having
    the required number of years of service at a reduced cost
    offered to such retirees.

The separation agreement provides that Ms. St. John may not
    solicit or accept employment with or act in any way, directly or
    indirectly, to solicit or obtain employment or work for Freddie
    Mac, any one of the Federal

230

Table of Contents   

Home Loan Banks or the Office of Finance, whether such
    employment is to be as a Freddie Mac, Federal Home
    Loan Bank or Office of Finance employee, consultant or
    advisor, for a period of 12 months following termination.
    Under the separation agreement, Ms. St. John agreed to a
    general release of the company from any and all claims arising
    from her employment with or termination from the company. She
    also agreed to cooperate with any investigation relating to us
    conducted by us, our auditor, OFHEO or any federal, state or
    local government authority.

The separation agreement will not terminate or limit the
    protections provided under the indemnification agreement between
    us and Ms. St. John, the form of which was filed as
    Exhibit 10.7 to the Form 10 we filed on March 31,
    2003, nor any director and officer insurance that is in effect
    during her employment. Consistent with our severance program for
    management level employees, Ms. St. John also will be
    entitled to certain outplacement services to be used within
    12 months after she ceases to be an employee.

Separation
    Agreement with Ann Kappler, Former Executive Vice President and
    General Counsel   

On August 23, 2005, we entered into a separation agreement with
    Ms. Kappler, our former Executive Vice President and General
    Counsel. Under the separation agreement and upon her separation
    from Fannie Mae on January 3, 2006, Ms. Kappler received
    accelerated vesting of all unvested options she held, options to
    purchase a total of 44,286 shares of our common stock at prices
    ranging from $69.43 to $78.315 per share. In addition, the
    exercise period of all 130,281 options held by Ms. Kappler at
    prices ranging from $62.50 to $80.95 per share was extended to
    the option expiration dates, which range from January 2009 to
    January 2014. Ms. Kappler also received accelerated vesting
    of all 32,813 shares of unvested restricted stock she held. The
    remaining terms of Ms. Kappler s separation agreement
    were generally in accordance with the provisions of our
    severance program for management level employees discussed under
     Employment Arrangements Severance Program. 

Director
    Compensation Information  

Cash
    Compensation   

Our non-management directors, with the exception of the
    non-executive Chairman of our Board, are paid a retainer at an
    annual rate of $35,000, plus $1,500 for attending each Board or
    Board committee meeting in person or by telephone. Committee
    chairpersons received an additional retainer at an annual rate
    of $10,000, plus an additional $500 for each committee meeting
    chaired and $300 for each telephone committee meeting chaired.
    As we described in a Form 8-K filed on January 21, 2005, in
    January 2005, our Board approved a compensation arrangement for
    the non-executive Chairman of the Board, Mr. Ashley, in
    recognition of the substantial amount of time and effort
    necessary to fulfill the duties of the position. Under this
    arrangement, Mr. Ashley receives an annual fee of $500,000.

Restricted
    Stock Awards   

We have a restricted stock award program for non-management
    directors established under the Fannie Mae Stock Compensation
    Plan of 2003. The award program provides for consecutive
    four-year cycles of awards of restricted common stock. Awards
    vest in four equal annual installments after each annual
    meeting, provided the participant continues to serve on the
    Board of Directors. If a director joins the Board of Directors
    during a four-year cycle, he or she receives a pro rata portion
    of the grant for the cycle, based on the time remaining in the
    cycle. These grants vest on the same schedule as those of
    directors who participate in the full four-year cycle. Vesting
    generally accelerates upon departure from the Board due to
    death, disability, or for elected directors, not being
    renominated after reaching age 70. No restricted stock has
    vested since May 2004 and no awards have yet been made in the
    four-year cycle scheduled to begin with the 2006 annual meeting.

Each director has an outstanding grant of restricted common
    stock pursuant to the restricted stock award program established
    under the Fannie Mae Stock Compensation Plan of 2003. In October
    2003, we granted 2,600 shares of restricted common stock to
    each non-management director who was a member of the Board at
    that time. We subsequently made pro rata grants of restricted
    common stock to non-management directors who joined the Board
    after October 2003.

231

Table of Contents   

Each director who served on the Board between the 2001 Annual
    Meeting and May 2006 received a grant of restricted common stock
    under the Fannie Mae Stock Compensation Plan of 1993. In May
    2001, we granted 871 shares of restricted common stock for
    the
     2001-2006 
    cycle to each non-management director who was a member of the
    Board at that time. These shares of restricted common stock vest
    over a five-year period at the rate of 20% per year. Each
    director who joined the Board during the cycle received a pro
    rata portion of the grant for the cycle, based on the time
    remaining in the cycle.

Stock
    Option Awards   

Each non-management director is granted an annual nonqualified
    stock option to purchase 4,000 shares of common stock
    immediately following the annual meeting of stockholders at the
    fair market value on the date of grant. A non-management
    director appointed or elected as a mid-term replacement receives
    a nonqualified stock option to purchase at the fair market value
    on the date of grant a pro rata number of shares equal to the
    fraction of the remainder of the term. Each option will expire
    ten years after the date of grant and vests in four equal annual
    installments beginning on the first anniversary of the grant.
    Non-management directors will have one year to exercise the
    options when they leave the Board. No annual stock option awards
    have yet been made with respect to annual meetings that would
    have been held in 2005 or 2006.

Fannie
    Mae Director s Charitable Award Program   

In 1992, we established our Director s Charitable Award
    Program. The purpose of the program is to acknowledge the
    service of our directors, recognize our own interest and that of
    our directors in supporting worthy institutions, and enhance our
    director benefit program to enable us to continue to attract and
    retain directors of the highest caliber. Under the program, we
    make donations upon the death of a director to up to five
    charitable organizations or educational institutions of the
    director s choice. We donate $100,000 for every year of
    service by a director up to a maximum of $1,000,000. To be
    eligible to receive a donation, a recommended organization must
    be an educational institution or charitable organization and
    must qualify to receive tax-deductible donations under the
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The program is generally funded
    by life insurance contracts on the lives of participating
    directors. The Board of Directors may elect to amend, suspend or
    terminate the program at any time.

Matching
    Gifts   

To further our support for charitable giving, non-employee
    directors are able to participate in the Matching Gifts Program
    of the Fannie Mae Foundation on the same terms as our employees.
    Under this program, the Fannie Mae Foundation will match gifts
    made by employees and directors to 501(c)(3) charities, up to an
    aggregate total of $10,000 in any calendar year, including up to
    $500 which may be matched on a
     2-for-1 
    basis.

Deferred
    Compensation   

We have a deferred compensation plan in which non-management
    directors can participate. Non-management directors may
    irrevocably elect to defer up to 100% of their annual retainer
    and all fees payable to them in their capacity as a member of
    the Board in any calendar year into the deferred compensation
    plan. Plan participants receive an investment return on the
    deferred funds as if the funds were invested in a hypothetical
    portfolio chosen by the participant from among the investment
    options our chief financial officer designates as available
    under the plan. Prior to the deferral, plan participants must
    elect to receive the deferred funds either in a lump sum, in
    approximately equal annual installments, or in an initial
    payment followed by approximately equal annual installments,
    with a maximum of 15 installments. Deferral elections generally
    must be made prior to the year in which the compensation
    otherwise would have been paid, and payments will be made as
    specified in the deferral election. Participants in the plan
    will be unsecured creditors of the company and will be paid from
    our general assets.

On November 16, 2004, our Board of Directors authorized a
    new deferred compensation plan to ensure that our plans comply
    with new requirements under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
    specifically Section 409A and we disclosed the plan in a
     Form 8-K 
    filed on November 22, 2004. The new elective deferred
    compensation plan applies to compensation that is deferred after
    December 31, 2004. The terms described under the prior

232

Table of Contents   

plan above are not expected to change. The prior deferred
    compensation plan will continue to operate for compensation
    deferred under that plan on or prior to December 31, 2004.

Other
    Expenses   

We also pay for or reimburse directors for
     out-of-pocket 
    expenses incurred in connection with their service on the Board,
    including travel to and from our meetings, accommodations, and
    meals.

Any director who is our employee does not receive compensation
    for his or her service as a director.

Compensation
    Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation in Compensation
    Decisions  

Our Board has a Compensation Committee consisting of Bridget
    Macaskill, who is the Chair, Stephen Ashley, Dennis Beresford,
    Brenda Gaines and Greg Smith. Since January 1, 2004, the
    following current and former directors have also served on the
    Compensation Committee: Ann Korologos, Donald Marron, Anne
    Mulcahy, Joe Pickett, Taylor Segue, III, and John Wulff. As
    discussed below in  Item 13 Certain Relationships
    and Related Transactions Legal Fees,  pursuant to the
    provisions of our bylaws and indemnification agreements, our
    directors have a right to have us pay their legal fees and
    expenses reasonably incurred in connection with any
    investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding by reason of
    the fact that such person is or was serving as our director.
    From January 2004 through September 2006, we advanced the
    expenses of members of our Compensation Committee for the
    reasonable costs and fees incurred by them relating to certain
    examinations and lawsuits as follows: Mr. Ashley, $378,882;
    Ms. Korologos, $214,703; Mr. Marron, $124,656;
    Ms. Mulcahy, $112,010, Mr. Pickett, $163,360 and
    Mr. Wulff, $117,426.

Item 12.    

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters  

The following table provides information as of December 31,
    2004 with respect to shares of common stock that may be issued
    under our existing equity compensation plans. We have provided
    equity compensation plan information as of December 31,
    2005 in a
     Form 8-K 
    we are filing with the SEC today. Information in that
     Form 8-K 
    under the heading  Equity Compensation Plan
    Information  is incorporated by reference into this
     Form 10-K. 

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information 
    (As of December 31, 2004)  

(1)   

This amount includes outstanding
    stock options; restricted stock units; the maximum number of
    shares issuable to eligible employees pursuant to our
    stock-based performance award; shares issuable upon the payout
    of deferred stock balances; the maximum number of shares that
    may be issued pursuant to performance share awards that have
    been made to members of senior management but for which no
    determination has yet been made regarding the final number of
    shares payable; and the maximum number of shares that may be
    issued pursuant to performance share awards that have been made
    to members of senior management for which a payout determination
    has been made but for which the shares were not paid out as of
    December 31, 2004. Performance share awards entitle the
    recipient to receive shares of common stock based upon and
    subject to our meeting corporate performance objectives over
    three-year periods. Outstanding awards, options and rights
    include grants under the Fannie Mae Stock Compensation Plan of
    1993, the Stock

233

Table of Contents   

Compensation Plan of 2003, the 1985
    Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the payout of shares deferred
    upon the settlement of awards made under the 1993 plan and a
    prior plan.

(2)   

The weighted average exercise price
    is calculated for the outstanding options and does not take into
    account restricted stock units, stock-based performance awards,
    deferred shares or the performance shares described in footnote
    (1).

(3)   

This number of shares consists of
    10,418,495 shares available under the 1985 Employee Stock
    Purchase Plan and 35,435,491 shares available under the
    Stock Compensation Plan of 2003 that may be issued as restricted
    stock, stock bonuses, stock options, or in settlement of
    restricted stock units, performance share awards, stock
    appreciation rights or other stock-based awards. No more than
    1,820,369 of the shares issuable under the Stock Compensation
    Plan of 2003 may be issued as restricted stock or restricted
    stock units vesting in full in fewer than three years,
    performance shares with a performance period of less than one
    year, or bonus shares subject to similar vesting provisions or
    performance periods.

Stock
    Ownership  

We encourage our directors, officers and employees to own our
    stock in order to align their interests with the interests of
    stockholders. Our compensation programs are structured so that a
    significant portion of the compensation paid to officers is in
    the form of common stock or rights to acquire common stock. Our
    employees also have the opportunity to own Fannie Mae common
    stock through bonus stock opportunities and our Employee Stock
    Ownership Program.

Stock
    Ownership Guidelines   

In April 2003, the Board of Directors adopted formal stock
    ownership requirements for executive officers. In November 2005,
    the Board also adopted stock ownership guidelines for
    non-management members of the Board. These requirements and
    guidelines are contained in our Corporate Governance Guidelines.

Stock Ownership Guidelines for Non-Management Members of the
    Board:

Each non-management director is expected to own Fannie Mae
    common stock with a value equal to at least five times the
    director s annual cash retainer (currently, five times
    $35,000, or $175,000).

Each non-management director has three years from the time of
    election or appointment to reach the expected ownership level,
    excluding trading blackout periods imposed by the company.

Stock Ownership Requirements for  Senior Executives :

Senior executives are officers holding positions at or above the
    level of Executive Vice President.

Each Fannie Mae senior executive is required to hold shares of
    Fannie Mae common stock as a multiple of the executive s
    base salary, as follows:

Job Level   

Multiple of Base
    Salary   

Chief Executive Officer

five times

Executive Vice President

two times

Each senior executive has three years from the time of
    appointment to reach the expected ownership level.

234

Table of Contents   

Beneficial
    Ownership   

The following table shows the beneficial ownership of Fannie Mae
    common stock by each of our current directors and the covered
    executives, and all current directors and executive officers as
    a group, as of October 1, 2006, or as otherwise noted. As
    of October 1, 2006, no director or covered executive, nor
    all directors and executive officers as a group, owned as much
    as 1% of our outstanding common stock.

(1)   

Beneficial ownership is determined
    in accordance with the rules of the SEC for computing the number
    of shares of common stock beneficially owned by each person and
    the percentage owned. Holders of restricted stock have no
    investment power but have sole voting power over the shares and,
    accordingly, these shares are included in this table. Holders of
    shares through our Employee Stock Ownership Plan, or ESOP,
    generally have no investment power but have sole voting power
    over the shares so these shares are also included in this table.
    Participants in our ESOP who

235

Table of Contents   

are at least 55 years of age
    and have at least 10 years of participation in the ESOP may
    elect to diversify out of shares of our common stock by rolling
    their assets into the investments in our 401(k) Plan.
    Additionally, although holders of shares through our ESOP have
    sole voting power through the power the direct the trustee of
    the plan to vote their shares, to the extent some holders do not
    provide any direction as to how to vote their shares, the plan
    trustee may vote those shares in the same proportion as the
    trustee votes the shares for which the trustee has received
    direction. Holders of stock options have no investment or voting
    power over the shares issuable upon the exercise of the options
    until the options are exercised.

(2)   

Mr. Ashley s shares
    include 1,200 shares held by his spouse and
    2,299 shares of restricted stock.

(3)   

Mr. Beresford s holdings
    consist of restricted stock.

(4)   

Mr. Donilon s shares
    include 100 shares held by his spouse and 37 shares
    held through our ESOP. Mr. Donilon left Fannie Mae in April
    2005. The information presented is based on a Form 4 filed
    by Mr. Donilon on May 3, 2005.

(5)   

Mr. Duberstein s shares
    include 2,299 shares of restricted stock.

(6)   

Ms. Gaines  holdings
    consist of restricted stock.

(7)   

Mr. Gerrity s shares
    include 17,552 shares held jointly with his spouse and
    2,299 shares of restricted stock.

(8)   

Ms. Horn s holdings
    consist of restricted stock.

(9)   

Mr. Levin s shares
    consist of 225,101 shares held jointly with his spouse and
    115,816 shares of restricted stock.

(10)   

Ms. Macaskill s holdings
    consist of restricted stock.

(11)   

Mr. Mudd s shares include
    167,752 shares of restricted stock, and do not include
    63,806 restricted stock units held by Mr. Mudd over which
    he will obtain voting rights and investment power when the
    restrictions lapse.

(12)   

Mr. Pickett s shares
    include 2,299 shares of restricted stock.

(13)   

Ms. Rahl s shares include
    200 shares held by her spouse and 2,299 shares of
    restricted stock.

(14)   

Ms. St. John s shares
    include 44,711 shares of restricted stock and
    851 shares held through our ESOP.

(15)   

Mr. Smith s shares
    consist of restricted stock.

(16)   

Mr. Swygert s shares
    include 2,299 shares of restricted stock.

(17)   

Mr. Williams  shares
    include 6,000 shares held jointly with his spouse,
    700 shares held by his daughter, 86,953 shares of
    restricted stock and 851 shares held through our ESOP. His
    beneficially owned total includes 1,271 shares of deferred
    stock that he could obtain within 60 days in certain
    circumstances.

(18)   

Mr. Wulff s shares
    consist of restricted stock.

(19)   

The amount of shares held by all
    directors and executive officers as a group includes
    688,523 shares of restricted stock held by our directors
    and executive officers, 5,142 held by them through our ESOP,
    6,550 shares of stock held by their family members,
    14,922 shares of restricted stock held by an executive
    officer s spouse and 614 shares held through our ESOP
    by an executive officer s spouse. The stock options column
    includes options to purchase 62,238 shares held by an
    officer s spouse. The beneficially owned total includes
    1,271 shares of deferred stock. The shares in this table do
    not include 135,417 shares of restricted stock units over
    which the holders will not obtain voting rights or investment
    power until the restrictions lapse.

The following table shows the beneficial ownership of Fannie Mae
    common stock by each holder of more than 5% of our common stock
    as of December 31, 2005, or as otherwise noted, which is
    the most recent information provided.

236

Table of Contents   

Item 13.    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions  

Described below are certain business transactions, employment
    and compensation arrangements and charitable donations that we
    have engaged in since January 1, 2004 with parties who are,
    or who are related in some way to, our officers, directors or
    holders of more than 5% of our common stock.

Transactions
    with 5% Shareholders  

Citigroup Inc. ( Citigroup ) beneficially owned more
    than 5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of
    December 31, 2005, and Barclays PLC and its affiliates
    ( Barclays ) beneficially owned more than 5% of the
    outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31,
    2003. Since January 1, 2004, we have engaged in securities
    and other financial instrument transactions in the ordinary
    course of business with each of Citigroup and Barclays and their
    respective affiliates. We have extensive, multi-billion dollar
    relationships with Citigroup and Barclays. Each of Citigroup and
    Barclays, or their affiliates, have acted as dealers who
    distribute our debt securities, dealers who commit to sell or
    buy mortgage securities or loans, issuers of investments in our
    liquid investment portfolio, derivatives counterparties and
    counterparties who have been involved in other financial
    instrument transactions with us. These transactions were on
    substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for
    comparable transactions with unrelated third parties.

Transactions
    with The Duberstein Group  

Mr. Duberstein is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
    The Duberstein Group, Inc., an independent strategic planning
    and consulting company. Our contract with The Duberstein Group
    provides that The Duberstein Group shall provide consulting
    services related to legislative and regulatory issues, and
    associated matters. The firm has provided services to us since
    1991. During 2004, 2005 and 2006 the firm provided services on
    an annual fixed-fee basis of $375,000. Mr. Duberstein is a
    non-independent Fannie Mae director.

Employment
    Relationships  

Patrick Swygert Jr., the son of our director, Mr. Swygert,
    was a non-officer employee in our eBusiness Marketing area.
    Mr. Swygert s son was paid approximately $59,000 in
    2004 in salary and cash bonus. He also received benefits under
    our compensation and benefit plans that are generally available
    to our employees, including our employee stock purchase plan and
    employee stock ownership plan. Mr. Swygert s son left
    our employment in 2004.

Barbara Spector, the sister of our Chief Business Officer,
    Mr. Levin, is a non-officer employee in our Enterprise
    Systems Operations division. From January 1, 2004 through
    November 1, 2006, we paid or awarded Ms. Spector
    approximately $329,000 in salary and cash bonuses, including
    amounts that she will receive in full only if she remains
    employed by us until early 2010. For 2004 and 2005, she has also
    received an aggregate of 394 shares of our common stock in
    the form of restricted stock that vests over four years. She
    also receives benefits under our compensation and benefit plans
    that are generally available to our employees, including our
    retirement plan, employee stock purchase plan and employee stock
    ownership plan. The Enterprise Systems Operations division does
    not report, nor has it ever reported, to Mr. Levin.

Rebecca Senhauser, the wife of William Senhauser, our Chief
    Compliance Officer, is a Senior Vice President in our Housing
    and Community Development division. From January 1, 2004
    through November 1, 2006, we paid or awarded
    Ms. Senhauser approximately $1,717,000 in salary and cash
    bonuses, including some amounts that Ms. Senhauser will
    receive in full only if she remains employed by us until early
    2010. For 2004 and 2005, she has also received an aggregate of
    18,973 shares of our common stock in the form of restricted
    stock that vests over three or four years. Ms. Senhauser
    also receives benefits under our compensation and benefit

237

Table of Contents   

plans that are generally available to our employees, including
    our retirement plan and our employee stock ownership plan. As a
    member of senior management, she also receives benefits under
    our compensation and benefit plans available to senior officers,
    including reimbursement for tax and financial planning service,
    participation in the Supplemental Pension Plan and 2003
    Supplemental Pension Plan, and participation in the Performance
    Share Program. For the three-year performance cycle completed in
    2003, it was determined in January 2004 that she was entitled to
    receive 5,730 shares, of which she received
    2,865 shares in accordance with the program and the balance
    was scheduled to be received in January 2005. Because our Board
    of Directors and Compensation Committee determined to defer
    payment of the unpaid performance shares, the balance of these
    shares has not been issued to Ms. Senhauser. The Housing
    and Community Development division does not report, nor has it
    ever reported, to Mr. Senhauser. Mr. and Ms. Senhauser
    recuse themselves from any matters that may directly and
    significantly affect the other, including matters that may
    affect each other s compensation and evaluation.

Legal
    Fees  

Pursuant to the provisions of our bylaws and indemnification
    agreements, directors and officers have a right to have us pay
    their legal fees and expenses reasonably incurred in connection
    with any investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding, to
    the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, by reason of the
    fact that such person is or was serving as a director or officer
    of Fannie Mae. Until such time as an indemnification
    determination is made, we are under an obligation to advance
    those fees and expenses. During 2004 and 2005, we advanced the
    expenses of certain current and former officers, directors and
    other employees for the reasonable costs and fees incurred by
    them, as they relate to the OFHEO special examination and
    consent order, the Paul Weiss and SEC investigations, and
    several shareholder and derivative lawsuits. The amounts we paid
    on behalf of current and former executive officers and directors
    from January 2004 through September 2006 were as follows:
    Ms. Bordonaro, $74,767; Mr. Donilon, $173,710;
    Ms. Gorelick, $268,427; Mr. Howard, $3,233,645;
    Ms. Kappler, $481,719; Ms. Korologos, $214,703;
    Mr. Marron, $124,656; Mr. Marzol, $560,043;
    Ms. Mulcahy, $112,010; Mr. Raines, $3,890,114;
    Mr. Ashley, $378,882; Mr. Gerrity, $302,804;
    Ms. Knight, $117,572; Mr. Levin, $236,713;
    Mr. Mudd, $1,313,039; Mr. Niculescu, $335,632;
    Mr. Pickett, $163,360; Ms. Rahl, $135,511; and
    Mr. Wulff, $117,426.

Engagement
    of Former Vice Chair s Law Firm  

Jamie S. Gorelick, who served as an executive officer and as
    Vice Chair of our Board of Directors from 1997 to 2003, left
    Fannie Mae in 2003 and became a partner in the law firm of
    Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering (now Wilmer Cutler Pickering
    Hale and Dorr LLP) in July 2003. Wilmer rendered legal services
    to us prior to 2003 and has continued to render legal services
    to us since then.

Certain
    Arrangements with Retired Chief Executive Officers  

James Johnson.   In February 2000, we entered
    into a consulting agreement with our former CEO, James Johnson,
    under which Mr. Johnson provides certain advisory services
    to us on issues such as corporate strategy and finance, industry
    relations, public policy and international securities
    distribution. This consulting agreement became effective
    following Mr. Johnson s departure from our Board. The
    agreement was amended in April 2005 to temporarily reduce the
    consulting fee and to eliminate our obligation to provide
    administrative support services to Mr. Johnson. Under the
    amended agreement, we pay Mr. Johnson an annual consulting
    fee of $300,000. Once we have filed our restated financial
    statements with the SEC, we will pay Mr. Johnson an annual
    fee in an amount equal to approximately $415,000 increased by
    the percentage increase in the consumer price index each year
    since 2004. As amended, the agreement will continue until two
    years after we provide written notice to Mr. Johnson or
    until he provides us written notice of termination, and may be
    terminated immediately for  Cause.  We have paid
    Mr. Johnson a consulting fee of approximately $388,000 in
    2001, $395,000 in 2002, $405,000 in 2003, $415,000 in 2004,
    $349,000 in 2005 and $275,000 from January 2, 2006 through
    November 1, 2006 for his services. Prior to the 2005
    amendment of the agreement, we also provided certain support
    services in connection with the agreement, including secretarial
    support, access to a car and driver and the use thereof on a
    part-time basis and some telecommunications support. As provided
    in the agreement, Mr. Johnson reimbursed us for his use of these
    support services to the extent he used them for matters
    unrelated to his services under the agreement. The cost to us
    for the services of support staff, certain

238

Table of Contents   

telecommunications services and a car and driver on a part-time
    basis, less reimbursements from Mr. Johnson, was
    approximately $233,000 in 2001, $218,000 in 2002, $193,000 in
    2003, $304,000 in 2004, $140,000 in 2005 and $0 in 2006.

David Maxwell.   Pursuant to his employment
    agreement, our former CEO, David Maxwell, is eligible to
    participate in our employee welfare benefit plans, including our
    health and medical plans, and is entitled to have us pay all
    medical, dental and hospitalization expenses for
    Mr. Maxwell and his spouse that are not covered by our
    plans. Pursuant to his agreement, we provide Mr. Maxwell
    with an office and secretary, as well as excess personal
    liability insurance, financial planning assistance and an annual
    physical exam. We anticipate paying these benefits to
    Mr. Maxwell until such time as he no longer requests them.
    The following table sets forth our estimated costs of providing
    certain of these benefits.

Franklin Raines.   We provide our former CEO
    Franklin Raines with certain employee benefits as described
    above under  Employment Agreement with Franklin Raines,
    Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. 

Charitable
    Contributions  

We have a corporate charitable donations program and are the
    sole provider of support for the Fannie Mae Foundation for
    similar activity. We encourage our employees to volunteer their
    time to charitable organizations, including the Foundation, and
    actively support these volunteer activities. Our charitable
    activities, and those of the Foundation, generally focus on
    creating affordable homeownership and housing opportunities
    nationally and improving the quality of life for people of our
    hometown, Washington, D.C., through partnerships and
    initiatives and by funding and promoting research and education
    on housing-related issues. In 2004, we donated approximately
    $1.4 million of securities to the Foundation. In 2006, we
    made a contribution to the Foundation of $14 million. Our
    President and CEO, Daniel Mudd, is the Chairman of the Board of
    the Foundation. In addition, the Board of Directors of the
    Foundation includes four additional members who are current
    officers of Fannie Mae and two members who are former officers
    of Fannie Mae. Effective as of January 1, 2004, directors
    of the Foundation who are current Fannie Mae employees do not
    receive any additional compensation for serving on the
    Foundation s Board of Directors.

Under its Matching Gifts Program, the Fannie Mae Foundation will
    match gifts made by employees to 501(c)(3) public charities, up
    to an aggregate total of $10,000 per employee in any
    calendar year, including up to $500 which may be matched on a
     2-for-1 
    basis. Directors and executive officers are eligible to
    participate in this matching program on the same terms as our
    other employees.

We made charitable contributions to Howard University totaling
    approximately $76,300 during the period from 2004 through 2006.
    These contributions were in support of our commitment to
    community development and affordable housing, and in particular
    in furtherance of our commitment to revitalize the LeDroit Park
    neighborhood. One of our directors, Mr. Swygert, is the
    president of Howard University.

The Fannie Mae Foundation made charitable contributions to the
    University of Pennsylvania of $91,667 in each of 2004 and 2005
    to support training for mid-career professionals in real estate
    financing and to support research on housing policy. One of our
    directors, Mr. Gerrity, is a professor at the University of
    Pennsylvania.  Mr. Gerrity had no involvement in the
    Foundation s grant-making decision.

Item 14.    

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services  

The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors is directly
    responsible for the appointment, oversight and evaluation of our
    independent registered public accounting firm. In accordance
    with the Audit Committee s charter, it must approve, in
    advance of the service, all audit and permissible non-audit
    services to be provided

239

Table of Contents   

by our independent registered public accounting firm and
    establish policies and procedures for the engagement of the
    outside auditor to provide audit and permissible non-audit
    services. Our independent registered public accounting firm may
    not be retained to perform non-audit services specified in
    Section 10A(g) of the Exchange Act.

The Audit Committee appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP as
    our independent registered public accounting firm in January
    2005. The Audit Committee dismissed KPMG LLP as our independent
    registered public accounting firm in December 2004, after
    concluding that Fannie Mae s previously filed interim and
    audited financial statements and the independent auditor s
    reports thereon for the periods from January 2001 through the
    second quarter of 2004 should no longer be relied upon because
    such financial statements were prepared applying accounting
    practices that did not comply with generally accepted accounting
    principles. Accordingly, we were required to restate our
    previously reported audited consolidated financial statements
    for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. We also
    restated our previously reported December 31, 2001
    consolidated balance sheet to reflect corrected items that
    relate to prior periods. Deloitte & Touche audited
    these restated consolidated financial statements, as well as our
    consolidated financial statements for the year ended
    December 31, 2004.

The following table sets forth the fees paid or accrued for
    services provided by our independent registered public
    accounting firm Deloitte & Touche for 2004 and the fees
    paid or accrued for services provided by our independent
    registered public accounting firm KPMG LLP for 2003. During
    2004, KPMG LLP reviewed our interim financial statements for the
    quarters ended March 31, 2004 and June 30, 2004. KPMG
    LLP did not report on our financial statements for the year
    ended December 31, 2004, but was in the process of auditing
    the 2004 information. The fees for services provided by KPMG LLP
    in 2004 are not reflected in the table below.

240

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.    

Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules  

(a)    

Documents
    filed as part of this report  

241

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose
    signature appears below constitutes and appoints Stephen B.
    Ashley, Daniel H. Mudd and Robert T. Blakely, and each of them
    severally, his or her true and lawful
     attorney-in-fact 
    with power of substitution and resubstitution to sign in his or
    her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to do any
    and all things and execute any and all instruments that such
    attorney may deem necessary or advisable under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules, regulations and requirements
    of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in
    connection with the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and any and all amendments hereto, as fully for all intents and
    purposes as he or she might or could do in person, and hereby
    ratifies and confirms all said
     attorneys-in-fact 
    and agents, each acting alone, and his or her substitute or
    substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
    hereof.

Federal National Mortgage Association

By: 

/s/   Daniel
    H. Mudd 

Daniel H. Mudd

President and Chief Executive Officer

Date: December 6, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   Stephen
    B. Ashley  

Stephen
    B. Ashley

Chairman of the Board of Directors

December 6, 2006

/s/   Daniel
    H. Mudd  

Daniel
    H. Mudd

President and Chief Executive
    Officer and Director

December 6, 2006

/s/   Robert
    T. Blakely  

Robert
    T. Blakely

Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer

December 6, 2006

/s/   David
    C. Hisey  

David
    C. Hisey

Senior Vice President and
    Controller

December 6, 2006

/s/   Dennis
    R.
    Beresford  

Dennis
    R. Beresford

Director

December 6, 2006

/s/   Kenneth
    M.
    Duberstein  

Kenneth
    M. Duberstein

Director

December 6, 2006

/s/   Brenda
    J. Gaines  

Brenda
    J. Gaines

Director

December 6, 2006

242

Table of Contents   

243

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

Item 

Description 

3

.1

Fannie Mae Charter Act
    (12 U.S.C.   1716 et seq.) (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Fannie Mae s registration
    statement on Form 10, filed March 31, 2003.)

3

.2

Fannie Mae Bylaws, amended as on
    September 19, 2006 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 3.1 to Fannie Mae s Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed September 25, 2006.)

4

.1

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Preferred Stock, Series D (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Fannie Mae s
    registration statement on Form 10, filed March 31,
    2003.)

4

.2

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Preferred Stock, Series E (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Fannie Mae s
    registration statement on Form 10, filed March 31,
    2003.)

4

.3

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Preferred Stock, Series F (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Fannie Mae s
    registration statement on Form 10, filed March 31,
    2003.)

4

.4

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Preferred Stock, Series G (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Fannie Mae s
    registration statement on Form 10, filed March 31,
    2003.)

4

.5

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Preferred Stock, Series H (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Fannie Mae s
    registration statement on Form 10, filed March 31,
    2003.)

4

.6

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Preferred Stock, Series I (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to Fannie Mae s
    registration statement on Form 10, filed March 31,
    2003.)

4

.7

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Preferred Stock, Series J (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to Fannie Mae s
    registration statement on Form 10, filed March 31,
    2003.)

4

.8

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Preferred Stock, Series K (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to Fannie Mae s
    registration statement on Form 10, filed March 31,
    2003.)

4

.9

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Preferred Stock, Series L (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Fannie Mae s Quarterly
    Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2003.)

4

.10

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Preferred Stock, Series M (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Fannie Mae s Quarterly
    Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2003.)

4

.11

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Preferred Stock, Series N (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Fannie Mae s Quarterly
    Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2003.)

4

.12

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Non-Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock,
     Series 2004-1 
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Fannie
    Mae s Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed January 4, 2005.)

4

.13

Certificate of Designation of
    Terms of Fannie Mae Preferred Stock, Series O (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Fannie Mae s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed January 4, 2005.)

10

.1

Employment Agreement between
    Fannie Mae and Franklin D. Raines, as amended on June 30,
    2004  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
    Fannie Mae s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2004.)

10

.2

Letter Agreement between Fannie
    Mae and Franklin D. Raines, dated September 17, 2004 
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Fannie
    Mae s Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed September 23, 2004.)

10

.3

Employment Agreement between
    Fannie Mae and Daniel H. Mudd, as amended on June 30,
    2004  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
    Fannie Mae s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2004.)

10

.4

Letter Agreement between Fannie
    Mae and Daniel H. Mudd, dated September 18, 2004 
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Fannie
    Mae s Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed September 23, 2004.)

10

.5

Employment Agreement between
    Fannie Mae and J. Timothy Howard, as amended on June 30,
    2004  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
    Fannie Mae s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2004.)

10

.6

Letter Agreement between Fannie
    Mae and Timothy Howard, dated September 20, 2004 
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Fannie
    Mae s Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed September 23, 2004.)

10

.7

Letter Agreement between Fannie
    Mae and Robert J. Levin, dated June 19, 1990 
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Fannie
    Mae s registration statement on Form 10, filed
    March 31, 2003.)

10

.8

Letter Agreement between Fannie
    Mae and Adolfo Marzol, dated October 24, 1998 
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Fannie
    Mae s registration statement on Form 10, filed
    March 31, 2003.)

E-1

Table of Contents   

E-2

Table of Contents   

This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or
    arrangement. 

E-3

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

F-1

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Fannie Mae:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Fannie Mae (the  Company ) as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of
    income, changes in stockholders  equity, and cash flows for
    each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
    2004. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
    Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
    fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
    Fannie Mae as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the
    results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
    three years in the period ended December 31, 2004, in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America.

We were engaged to audit, in accordance with the standards of
    the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, and our report
    dated December 6, 2006 disclaimed an opinion on
    management s assessment of the effectiveness of the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting because
    of a scope limitation and expressed an adverse opinion on the
    effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting because of material weaknesses and the
    effects of a scope limitation.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company has restated the accompanying 2002 and
    2003 consolidated financial statements.

/s/  Deloitte &
    Touche LLP

Washington, DC

December 6, 2006

F-2

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE  

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

(Dollars in millions, except
    share amounts)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-3

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE  

Consolidated Statements of Income 

(Dollars and shares in
    millions, except per share amounts)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows   

(Dollars in
    millions)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

Consolidated
    Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity   

(Dollars and shares in
    millions, except per share amounts)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

1.    

Restatement
    of Previously Issued Financial Statements  

Overview   

As a result of an investigation by the Office of Federal Housing
    Enterprise Oversight ( OFHEO ) and a review of our
    accounting practices by the staff of the Securities and Exchange
    Commission ( SEC ), we filed a
     Form 8-K 
    with the SEC in December 2004 stating that our previously filed
    interim and audited financial statements and the independent
    auditor s reports thereon for the periods from January 2001
    through the second quarter of 2004 should no longer be relied
    upon because such financial statements were prepared applying
    accounting practices that did not comply with generally accepted
    accounting principles ( GAAP ).

On May 23, 2006, OFHEO issued a report on its special
    examination of our business practices. On that date, we entered
    into settlements resolving matters with OFHEO and the SEC and
    agreed to pay a civil penalty of $400 million, which is
    recorded in  Other expenses  in the consolidated
    statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2004.

In 2006, we completed a comprehensive review of our accounting
    policies and practices to ensure that they are in compliance
    with GAAP. This review included an examination of accounting
    issues identified by OFHEO and other third parties, as well as
    issues identified by our management. As a result, we have
    restated our previously reported audited consolidated financial
    statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002.
    We have also restated our previously reported December 31,
    2001 consolidated balance sheet to recognize corrected items
    that relate to periods prior to January 1, 2002. In these
    notes to the consolidated financial statements, we refer to
    those periods as the  restatement periods. 

Except as otherwise noted, all financial information presented
    in the consolidated financial statements for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002 and related notes are presented
     as restated.  This note describes the accounting
    errors identified and corrected in our restatement adjustments.
    For a description of our significant accounting policies, see
     Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies. 

Summary
    of Restatement Adjustments   

We have classified our restatement adjustments into the seven
    primary categories as set forth below. These categories involve
    subjective judgments by management regarding classification of
    amounts and particular accounting errors that may fall within
    more than one category. While such classifications are not
    required under GAAP, management believes these classifications
    may assist investors in understanding the nature and impact of
    the corrections made in completing the restatement.

F-7

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the impact of the restatement
    adjustments on net income available to common stockholders and
    basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002.

See the  Financial Statement Impact  section below for
    further details on the impact of the restatement adjustments in
    the consolidated financial statements for the restatement
    periods.

Debt
    and Derivatives   

We identified five errors associated with our debt and
    derivatives. The most significant error was that we incorrectly
    designated derivatives as cash flow or fair value hedges for
    accounting and reporting purposes. For derivatives designated as
    cash flow hedges, this error resulted in the recognition of
    changes in the fair value of these derivatives in
     Accumulated other comprehensive income 
    ( AOCI ) in the consolidated balance sheets instead of
    in the consolidated statements of income. For derivatives
    designated as fair value hedges, this error resulted in the
    recognition of changes in the fair value of the hedged items as
    fair value adjustments in the consolidated balance sheets and as
    gain or loss in the consolidated statements of income. In
    conjunction with the review of these transactions, we identified
    the following additional errors associated with our debt and
    derivatives: we incorrectly excluded foreign exchange
    derivatives from netting adjustments for transactions executed
    with the same counterparty; we did not record a small number of
    financial instruments as derivatives;

F-8

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

we incorrectly valued certain option-based and foreign exchange
    derivatives; and we incorrectly calculated interest expense by
    using inappropriate estimates in our amortization of debt cost
    basis adjustments.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a pre-tax increase in net income of
    $4.4 billion and a pre-tax decrease in net income of
    $5.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
    2002, respectively. In addition, we recorded a reduction in
    retained earnings of $10.6 billion as of December 31,
    2001, which reflects derivative restatement adjustments for all
    periods prior to and including December 31, 2001. As such,
    the accumulation of all derivative adjustments through 2003
    resulted in a cumulative reduction in retained earnings of
    $12.1 billion. This reduction in retained earnings, in
    combination with an incremental loss reflected in the 2004
    consolidated financial statements of $729 million, resulted
    in a cumulative reduction in pre-tax net income of
    $12.9 billion, or $8.4 billion after tax, as of
    December 31, 2004. These restatement adjustments also impacted
    the consolidated balance sheets, resulting in a decrease in
    total assets of $5.0 billion and $3.7 billion as of
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily from a
    reduction in  Deferred tax assets  as a result of no
    longer applying hedge accounting and deferring losses.
    Additionally, we decreased total liabilities by
    $9.1 billion and $9.0 billion as of December 31,
    2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily from no longer recording
    debt at fair value due to the loss of hedge accounting as well
    as correcting the amortization of debt cost basis adjustments.
    The effect from the change in debt cost basis adjustments, in
    turn, had the effect of increasing the amount of  Debt
    extinguishment losses, net  recognized in the consolidated
    statements of income. Each of the errors that resulted in these
    adjustments is described below.

We incorrectly classified derivatives as cash flow or fair value
    hedges for accounting and reporting purposes, even though they
    did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment pursuant to
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
    No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities  ( SFAS 133 ). The primary
    reasons for the loss of hedge accounting treatment were the
    improper use of the  shortcut  method as defined by
    SFAS 133 and inadequate assessments of hedge effectiveness
    and ineffectiveness measurement, both at hedge inception and at
    each reporting period thereafter. In other instances, hedging
    relationships were not properly documented at the inception of
    the hedge. Under cash flow hedge accounting, we initially
    recorded unrealized gains or losses on derivatives in AOCI in
    the consolidated balance sheets to be recognized into income in
    subsequent periods. Under fair value hedge accounting, we
    recorded unrealized gains or losses on derivatives in the
    consolidated statements of income offset by unrealized gains or
    losses on the asset or liability being hedged. The impact of
    correcting errors on derivatives that were previously classified
    as cash flow hedges resulted in the reversal of all previously
    recorded fair value adjustments in AOCI and the recognition of
    these fair value adjustments in  Derivatives fair value
    losses, net  in the consolidated statements of income. The
    impact of correcting errors on derivatives that were previously
    classified as fair value hedges resulted in the reversal of
    previously recorded fair value adjustments recorded on the
    hedged items. As the majority of these derivatives were
    designated as hedges against debt, the reversal of fair value
    adjustments resulted in a reduction of  Short-term
    debt  and  Long-term debt  in the consolidated
    balance sheets and changes in  Interest expense  in
    the consolidated statements of income. This error impacted all
    previously reported results and varied substantially from period
    to period based on the portfolio size and prevailing interest
    rates.

We incorrectly excluded foreign exchange derivatives from
    netting adjustments for transactions executed with the same
    counterparty where we had the legal right and intent to offset
    pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board
    ( FASB ) Interpretation ( FIN ) No. 39,
     Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts (an
    interpretation of APB Opinion No. 10 and FASB Statement
    No. 105)  ( FIN 39 ). As a result, the
    amounts of derivative assets and liabilities in the consolidated
    balance sheets were misstated. The impact of correcting this
    error changed the reported amount of derivative assets and
    liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.

We did not record a small number of financial instruments that
    met the definition of a derivative pursuant to SFAS 133,
    which resulted in a misstatement of derivative assets and
    liabilities at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets.
    The correction of this error resulted in the recognition of
    derivative assets and liabilities at fair

F-9

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

value with subsequent changes in the fair value of these
    derivatives recognized in the consolidated statements of income.

We incorrectly valued certain option-based and foreign exchange
    derivatives. We incorrectly valued certain option-based
    derivatives by using inaccurate volatility measures, which
    resulted in incorrect fair value adjustments to the previously
    reported consolidated financial statements. To correct this
    error, we revalued option-based derivatives with new volatility
    measures supported by market analysis and revalued foreign
    exchange derivatives. We also incorrectly recorded fair value
    adjustments on foreign exchange derivatives previously accounted
    for as fair value hedges. We recorded adjustments on these
    derivatives equal to foreign currency translation adjustments of
    our foreign denominated debt. These foreign exchange derivatives
    should have been independently recorded at fair value. The
    impact of correcting this error resulted in changes in the fair
    value gain or loss associated with these derivatives, which was
    recognized in the consolidated statements of income.

We incorrectly calculated interest expense by using
    inappropriate estimates in our amortization of debt cost basis
    adjustments. We amortized discounts, premiums and other deferred
    price adjustments by amortizing these amounts through the
    expected call date of the borrowings as opposed to amortizing
    these amounts through the contractual maturity date of the
    borrowings. Additionally, we utilized a convention in the
    calculation that was based on the average number of days of
    interest in a month regardless of the days contractually agreed
    upon. We corrected these errors by recalculating amortization of
    these costs through the contractual maturity date of the
    respective borrowings and using the contractual number of days
    in the month. The correction of these errors resulted in changes
    in the recognition of  Interest expense  and
     Debt extinguishment losses, net  in the consolidated
    statements of income.

Commitments   

We identified five errors associated with mortgage loan and
    security commitments. The most significant errors were that we
    did not record certain mortgage loan and security commitments as
    derivatives under SFAS 133 and we incorrectly classified
    mortgage loan and security commitments as cash flow hedges,
    which resulted in changes in fair value not being reflected in
    earnings. We also incorrectly interpreted
    SFAS No. 149,  Amendment of Statement 133 on
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 
    ( SFAS 149 ), and therefore we incorrectly
    recorded a transition adjustment in 2003. In conjunction with
    the review of these transactions, we identified the following
    additional errors associated with mortgage loan and security
    commitments: we did not record certain security commitments as
    securities and we incorrectly valued mortgage loan and security
    commitments.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a pre-tax decrease in net income of
    $1.8 billion and a pre-tax increase in net income of
    $5.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
    2002, respectively for a cumulative
     pre-tax 
    increase in retained earnings of $4.0 billion as of
    December 31, 2003. This pre-tax increase, combined with a
    commitments-related gain of $135 million reflected in the
    2004 consolidated financial statements, resulted in a cumulative
    pre-tax increase in retained earnings of $4.1 billion, as
    of December 31, 2004. The net impact on retained earnings,
    including tax effects and the $185 million after-tax charge
    to  Cumulative effect of change in accounting
    principle  as described below, was $2.5 billion as of
    December 31, 2004. After considering the increased
    amortization recognized in restatement attributable to the
    commitments adjustment, the total net impact of these commitment
    adjustments was an increase in retained earnings of
    $535 million, net of tax, as of December 31, 2004.
    Each of the errors that resulted in these adjustments is
    described below.

Prior to July 1, 2003, we did not record as derivatives
    mortgage loan and security commitments that were derivatives
    pursuant to SFAS 133, which resulted in a misstatement of
    our derivative assets and liabilities in the consolidated
    balance sheets. The impact of correcting this error resulted in
    the recognition of these commitments as derivatives at fair
    value in the consolidated balance sheets, with changes in the
    fair value of these commitments recorded in the consolidated
    statements of income. This error impacted previously reported
    results and varied substantially from period to period based on
    volume, prevailing interest rates and the market price of the
    underlying collateral. The correction of this error also
    resulted in recording cost basis adjustments

F-10

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

to the acquired assets for the value of these derivatives as of
    their settlement date. These cost basis adjustments are
    amortized into interest income over the life of the acquired
    assets. The impact of this amortization is reflected in the
     Amortization of Cost Basis Adjustments  section below.

We incorrectly classified mortgage loan and security commitments
    as cash flow hedges. The primary reasons we did not qualify for
    hedge accounting treatment were the lack of assessment of the
    effectiveness of the hedging relationship and the failure to
    adequately identify and document the forecasted transactions. As
    discussed above, under cash flow hedge accounting, we deferred
    unrealized gains or losses on derivatives in AOCI in the
    consolidated balance sheets. The impact of correcting this error
    resulted in the recognition of derivatives at fair value in the
    consolidated balance sheets, with changes in the fair value of
    these derivatives recognized in the consolidated statements of
    income. This error impacted previously reported results and
    varied substantially from period to period based on volume,
    prevailing interest rates and the market price of the underlying
    collateral.

As part of the adoption of SFAS 149 in 2003 ,  we
    incorrectly recorded a SFAS 149 transition adjustment that
    was not required because the commitments for which the
    transition adjustment was recorded should previously have been
    accounted for as derivatives under SFAS 133 or as
    securities under Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF )
    Issue
     No. 96-11, 
     Accounting for Forward Contracts and Purchased Options to
    Acquire Securities Covered by FASB Statement No. 115
     ( EITF 96-11 ). We also incorrectly recorded
    as derivatives certain multifamily mortgage loan commitments
    that did not qualify as derivatives. The transition adjustment
    originally recorded was an after-tax charge of $185 million
    in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended
    December 31, 2003 as a  Cumulative effect of change in
    accounting principle.  The impact of correcting these
    errors resulted in the removal of the fair value adjustments
    related to multifamily loan commitments and the reversal of the
    entire transition adjustment in the consolidated statement of
    income for the year ended December 31, 2003.

Prior to July 1, 2003, the effective date of SFAS 149,
    we did not account for certain qualifying security purchase
    commitments in the consolidated balance sheets pursuant to
    EITF 96-11, which resulted in a misstatement of
     Investments in securities  and AOCI in the
    consolidated balance sheets and related  Investment losses,
    net  in the consolidated statements of income associated
    with these commitments. The impact of correcting this error
    resulted in the recognition of these commitments as either
     trading  or
      available-for-sale  
    ( AFS ) securities, and the recognition of changes in
    the fair value of the securities in  Investment losses,
    net  in the consolidated statements of income for trading
    securities or in AOCI in the consolidated balance sheets for AFS
    securities.

We incorrectly valued mortgage loan and security commitments
    that we recorded as derivatives by utilizing inconsistent or
    inaccurate pricing. We corrected this error by revaluing
    mortgage loan and security commitment derivatives. The impact of
    correcting this error resulted in changes in unrealized gains or
    losses associated with these commitments in the consolidated
    statements of income and corresponding changes in derivatives at
    fair value in the consolidated balance sheets.

Investments
    in Securities   

We identified the accounting errors described below related to
    our investments in securities that resulted in a pre-tax
    decrease in net income of $332 million and
    $715 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
    2002, respectively.

Classification
    and Valuation of Securities  

We identified three errors associated with the classification
    and valuation of securities. The most significant error was that
    we incorrectly classified securities at acquisition as
      held-to-maturity  
    ( HTM ) that we did not intend to hold to maturity,
    which resulted in not recognizing changes in the fair value of
    these securities in AOCI or earnings. As a result of our review
    of acquired securities, we derecognized all previously recorded
    HTM securities recorded at amortized cost and recognized at fair
    value $419.5 billion and $69.5 billion of AFS and
    trading securities, respectively, in 2003. Our holding of
    investments in trading securities is a

F-11

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

significant change from our previously reported consolidated
    financial statements, as the majority of our investments in
    securities were historically classified as HTM. As a part of our
    review of these transactions, we identified the following
    additional errors: we incorrectly valued securities and we
    incorrectly classified certain dollar roll repurchase
    transactions as short-term borrowings instead of purchases and
    sales of securities.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a pre-tax increase in net income of
    $148 million and a decrease of $90 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These
    restatement adjustments also impacted the consolidated balance
    sheets, resulting in an increase of $2.4 billion and
    $6.1 billion in total assets and an increase of
    $37 million and decrease of $324 million in total
    liabilities as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
    Each of the errors that resulted in these adjustments is
    described below.

We incorrectly classified securities as HTM pursuant to
    SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in
    Debt and Equity Securities  ( SFAS 115 ).
    SFAS 115 requires that securities be classified based on
    management s investment intent on the date of acquisition
    and that securities originally designated as HTM can only be
    reclassified if specified criteria are met. Previously, we
    selected HTM as a default designation on the date we acquired
    the security. Subsequently, we would select classification as
    either HTM or AFS, at the end of the month in which the security
    was acquired. The effect of this error was that securities were
    incorrectly reclassified from HTM to AFS and the
    reclassification did not meet the criteria of SFAS 115 for
    such reclassification. The impact of correcting this error
    resulted in the classification of all securities previously
    classified as HTM securities as either AFS or trading
    securities, with changes in the fair value of securities
    classified as AFS recorded in AOCI and changes in the fair value
    of securities classified as trading recognized in
     Investment losses, net  in the consolidated
    statements of income. We discontinued the use of the HTM
    designation during the restatement period. In our restatement
    process, we corrected this error using information contained
    within the historical trade system to determine the original
    investment intent for each security and the appropriate
    classification. Fair value adjustments related to
     Investments in securities  resulted in an increase in
    AOCI of $2.3 billion and $6.4 billion for AFS
    securities as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively,
    in the consolidated balance sheets and an additional loss of
    $100 million and a gain of $209 million for trading
    securities for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively, in  Investment losses, net  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

We had valuation errors associated with securities. We
    incorrectly recorded the cost basis for certain securities in
    connection with implementing a new settlement system in 2002. We
    also incorrectly accounted for certain securities on a
    settlement date basis rather than a trade date basis pursuant to
    Statement of Position ( SOP )
     No. 01-6, 
     Accounting by Certain Entities (Including Entities with Trade
    Receivables) That Lend to or Finance the Activities of Others
      ( SOP 01-6 ). 
    In addition, we incorrectly valued our previously reported AFS
    securities. To correct these errors, we revalued securities and
    corrected the cost basis of the impacted securities. The impact
    of correcting these errors resulted in a change in the realized
    and unrealized gains or losses associated with these securities
    as well as amortization of the cost basis adjustments in
     Interest income  in the consolidated statements of
    income. The impact of the amortization of the revised cost basis
    adjustments is reflected in the  Amortization of Cost Basis
    Adjustments  section below.

We enter into agreements referred to as  dollar roll
    repurchase transactions,  where we transfer mortgage-backed
    securities ( MBS ) in exchange for funds and agree to
    repurchase substantially the same securities at a future date.
    We incorrectly classified some dollar roll repurchase
    transactions as secured borrowings as these repurchase
    transactions did not qualify for secured borrowing treatment
    under SFAS No. 125,  Accounting for Transfers and
    Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
    Liabilities  ( SFAS 125 ) and
    SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and
    Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities
    (a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125)
     ( SFAS 140 ). For transactions that did not
    qualify for secured borrowing treatment, the impact of
    correcting the errors resulted in the reversal of
     Short-term debt  in the consolidated balance sheets
    and the recognition of a sale or purchase of a security for each
    transaction, resulting in the recognition of gains and losses in
     Investment losses, net  in the consolidated
    statements of income.

F-12

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Impairment
    of Securities  

We identified the following errors associated with the
    impairment of securities: we did not assess certain types of
    securities for impairment and we did not assess interest-only
    securities and lower credit quality investments for impairment.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a pre-tax decrease in net income of
    $480 million and $625 million and a decrease in total
    assets of $1.2 billion and $872 million for the years
    ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Each of the
    errors that resulted in these adjustments is described below.

We did not appropriately assess certain securities for
    impairment due to deteriorated credit quality of the
    securities  underlying collateral and, in some cases,
    deteriorated credit quality of the securities  issuer
    during the restatement period. Included in this population of
    securities were investments in manufactured housing bonds.
    Additionally, when we recorded impairment, in certain
    circumstances we did not use contemporaneous market prices where
    available. To correct these errors, we remeasured securities and
    assessed them for credit-related impairments. The impact of
    correcting these errors resulted in a change in the carrying
    amount of these securities in the consolidated balance sheets
    and a reduction in net income recorded in  Investment
    losses, net  in the consolidated statements of income.

We did not assess interest-only securities and lower credit
    quality investments for impairment pursuant to EITF Issue
     No. 99-20, 
     Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
    Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That Continue to
    Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets
     ( EITF 99-20 ). In certain instances, we
    incorrectly combined interest-only and principal-only
    certificates issued from securitization trusts for impairment
    evaluation purposes even though the interest-only certificates
    could not be, or had not been, legally combined into a single
    security. To correct this error, we assessed these securities
    separately for impairment. The impact of correcting this error
    resulted in a decrease in the carrying amount of these
    securities in the consolidated balance sheets and a reduction in
    net income recorded in  Investment losses, net  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

MBS
    Trust Consolidation and Sale Accounting   

We identified three errors associated with MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting: we incorrectly recorded asset
    sales that did not meet sale accounting criteria; we did not
    consolidate certain MBS trusts that were not considered
    qualifying special purpose entities ( QSPE ) and for
    which we were deemed to be the primary beneficiary or sponsor of
    the trust; and we did not consolidate certain MBS trusts in
    which we owned 100% of the securities issued by the trust and
    had the ability to unilaterally cause the trust to liquidate.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a pre-tax decrease in net income of
    $226 million and $59 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. This was the
    result of the net change in the value of the assets and
    liabilities that were recognized and derecognized in conjunction
    with consolidation or sale activity. These restatement
    adjustments also affected the consolidated balance sheets,
    resulting in an increase of $8.9 billion and
    $7.7 billion in total assets and an increase in total
    liabilities of $8.6 billion and $7.1 billion as of
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Each of the
    errors that resulted in these adjustments is described below.

We incorrectly recorded asset sales that did not meet the sale
    accounting criteria set forth in SFAS 125 and
    SFAS 140, primarily because the assets were transferred to
    an MBS trust that did not meet the QSPE criteria. To correct
    this error, we reviewed our MBS trusts and accounted for the
    transfers of assets that did not meet the sale accounting
    criteria as secured borrowings. The impact of correcting this
    error resulted in the derecognition of retained interest and
    recourse obligations recorded upon transfer of the assets, the
     re-recognition 
    of the transferred assets and the recognition of
     Short-term debt  or  Long-term debt  in the
    consolidated balance sheets to the extent of any proceeds
    received in connection with the transfer of assets. Correcting
    this error also resulted in the reversal of any gains or losses
    related to these failed asset sales recorded in  Investment
    losses, net  in the consolidated statements of income.

F-13

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

We failed to consolidate MBS trusts that were not considered
    QSPEs and for which we were deemed to be the primary beneficiary
    or sponsor of the trust. These entities included those to which
    we transferred assets in a transaction that initially qualified
    as a sale and for QSPE status, but where the trust subsequently
    failed to meet the criteria to be a QSPE, primarily because our
    ownership interests in the trust exceeded the threshold
    permitted for a QSPE. Additionally, these entities included
    those where we were not the transferor of assets to the trust,
    but where the trust is not considered a QSPE and our investments
    or guaranty contracts provide us with the majority of the
    expected losses or residual returns, as defined by
    FIN No. 46 (revised December 2003),  Consolidation
    of Variable Interest Entities (an interpretation of ARB
    No. 51)  ( FIN 46R ). To correct this
    error, we consolidated these trusts, then deconsolidated trusts
    when they no longer required consolidation.

We incorrectly did not consolidate MBS trusts in which we owned
    or acquired over time 100% of the related securities issued by
    the trust and had the ability to unilaterally liquidate the
    trust. To correct this error, we consolidated those MBS trusts
    in which we had the unilateral ability to liquidate and
    deconsolidated these trusts when we no longer had the unilateral
    ability to liquidate.

Correcting these errors related to MBS trust consolidation and
    sale accounting resulted in a decrease in  Investments in
    securities  of $154.0 billion and $128.8 billion,
    an increase in  Mortgage loans  of $162.8 billion
    and $136.1 billion and an increase in debt of
    $9.9 billion and $7.5 billion as of December 31,
    2003 and 2002, respectively.

In situations where we were required to consolidate an MBS
    trust, we derecognized the MBS recorded in the consolidated
    balance sheets as  Investments in securities  and
    recognized the underlying assets held by the trust, either as
    mortgage loans or mortgage-related securities. Loans that were
    consolidated from trusts in which we were the transferor have
    been classified as held for sale ( HFS ) and are
    recorded at the lower of cost or market, whereas loans that were
    consolidated from trusts in which we were not the transferor
    have been classified as held for investment ( HFI )
    and recorded at amortized cost. Mortgage-related securities that
    were consolidated from trusts have been classified as AFS
    securities. We also derecognized assets and liabilities
    associated with our guaranty and master servicing arrangements
    associated with the consolidated MBS trusts and recognized these
    amounts as cost basis adjustments to  Mortgage loans 
    in the consolidated balance sheets, where applicable. The impact
    of the amortization of this cost basis adjustment is reflected
    in the  Amortization of Cost Basis Adjustments 
    section below. For consolidated MBS trusts in which we owned
    less than 100% of the related securities, we recorded short-term
    or long-term debt in the consolidated balance sheets for the
    portion of the security position due to third parties.

Correcting these errors related to MBS trust consolidation and
    sale accounting also impacted the consolidated statements of
    income. We recorded an additional loss of $230 million and
    $26 million in  Investments losses, net  in the
    consolidated statements of income for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily due to
    reversing previously recorded asset sales. As a result of
    adopting FIN 46R, we consolidated certain MBS trusts
    created prior to February 1, 2003 and recorded a
    $34 million gain in  Cumulative effect of change in
    accounting principle, net of tax effect  in the
    consolidated statement of income for the year ended
    December 31, 2003. For MBS trusts created after
    January 31, 2003 and that were consolidated due to the
    application of FIN 46R, we recorded a $195 million
    gain in  Extraordinary gains (losses), net of tax
    effect  in the consolidated statement of income for the
    year ended December 31, 2003, reflecting the difference
    between the fair value of the consolidated assets and
    liabilities and the carrying amount of our interest in the MBS
    trust. In addition, we recorded a decrease in  Guaranty fee
    income  of $247 million and $198 million and an
    increase in  Interest income  of $594 million and
    $710 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
    2002, respectively, as a result of derecognizing our guaranty
    assets and obligations and recognizing cost basis adjustments to
    the consolidated mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities.

Additionally, two real estate mortgage investment conduit
    ( REMIC ) transactions were specifically identified
    and questioned by OFHEO regarding our intent for entering into
    the transactions and the timing of income recognition. Our
    review concluded that the historical treatment of accounting for
    these transfers was appropriate and consistently applied.

F-14

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Financial
    Guaranties and Master Servicing   

We identified the accounting errors described below related to
    our financial guaranties and master servicing that resulted in a
    pre-tax increase in net income of $175 million and
    $178 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
    2002, respectively.

Recognition,
    Valuation and Amortization of Guaranties and Master
    Servicing  

We identified seven errors associated with the recognition,
    valuation and amortization of our guaranty and master servicing
    contracts. The most significant errors were that we incorrectly
    amortized guaranty fee buy-downs and risk-based pricing
    adjustments; we incorrectly valued our guaranty assets and
    guaranty obligations; we incorrectly accounted for buy-ups; we
    did not record credit enhancements associated with our
    guaranties as separate assets; and we incorrectly recorded
    adjustments to guaranty assets and guaranty obligations based on
    the amount of Fannie Mae mortgage-backed securities
    ( Fannie Mae MBS )  held in the consolidated balance
    sheets. In conjunction with the review of these issues, we
    identified the following additional errors: we did not record
    guaranty assets and guaranty obligations associated with our
    guaranties to MBS trusts in which we were the transferor of the
    trust s underlying loans and we did not recognize master
    servicing assets and related deferred profit, where applicable.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a pre-tax increase in net income of
    $1.0 billion and $491 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These restatement
    adjustments also impacted the consolidated balance sheets,
    resulting in an increase of $144 million and
    $246 million in total assets and a decrease in total
    liabilities of $1.6 billion and $1.2 billion as of
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Each of the
    errors that resulted in these adjustments is described below.

For guaranties entered into before January 1, 2003, the
    effective date of FIN No. 45,  Guarantor s
    Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
    Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others (an interpretation
    of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and rescission of
    FASB Interpretation No. 
    34)  ( FIN 45 ), we made errors in
    applying amortization to up-front cash receipts associated with
    our guaranties, known as buy-downs and risk-based pricing
    adjustments, pursuant to SFAS No. 91,  Accounting
    for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or
    Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases (an amendment
    of FASB Statements No. 13, 60, and 65 and rescission of
    FASB Statement No. 17)  ( SFAS 91 ). The
    errors in amortization of these items are described in the
     Amortization of Cost Basis Adjustments  section
    below. The impact of correcting these errors resulted in changes
    in the periodic recognition of  Guaranty fee income 
    in the consolidated statements of income. For guaranties entered
    into or modified after the adoption of FIN 45, buy-downs
    and risk-based pricing adjustments should have been recorded as
    an additional component of  Guaranty obligations  and
    amortized in proportion to the reduction to  Guaranty
    assets.  The impact of correcting this error resulted in
    changes in the carrying amount of  Other liabilities 
    and  Guaranty obligations  in the consolidated balance
    sheets and changes in the periodic recognition of  Guaranty
    fee income  in the consolidated statements of income.

We had valuation errors associated with our guaranty assets and
    guaranty obligations. We incorrectly included up-front cash
    payments associated with our guaranties, known as buy-ups, in
    the basis of our guaranty assets while also recording these
    buy-ups as a separate asset included in  Other assets 
    in the consolidated balance sheets. We recorded guaranty
    obligations equal to the recorded guaranty assets, including any
    buy-ups, when we should have independently measured guaranty
    obligations at fair value based on estimates of expected credit
    losses and recorded deferred profit associated with these
    arrangements. The impact of correcting these errors resulted in
    decreases in  Other assets  and  Guaranty
    obligations  in the consolidated balance sheets.

We did not correctly account for buy-ups. Historically, we
    accounted for buy-ups at amortized cost under the retrospective
    effective interest method pursuant to SFAS 91. However,
    since the recognition of income on a
     buy-up  is
    subject to the risk that we may not substantially recover our
    investment due to prepayments, we should have subsequently
    measured the fair value of the buy-ups as if they were debt
    securities pursuant to

F-15

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

SFAS 140 and recorded imputed interest as a component of
     Guaranty fee income  in the consolidated statements
    of income under the prospective interest method pursuant to
    EITF 99-20. The impact of correcting this error resulted in
    recording buy-ups at fair value as a component of  Other
    assets  in the consolidated balance sheets with changes in
    the fair value recorded in AOCI in the consolidated balance
    sheets.

In some transactions, we receive the benefit of lender-provided
    credit enhancements, such as lender recourse, in lieu of
    receiving a higher guaranty fee. Previously, we did not record
    these credit enhancements as assets in the consolidated balance
    sheets. The impact of correcting this error resulted in the
    recognition of credit enhancements as a component of  Other
    assets,  an offsetting increase to  Guaranty
    obligations,  and subsequent amortization of the credit
    enhancement as a component of  Other expenses  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

Historically, when we acquired a Fannie Mae MBS, we reduced the
    recorded guaranty asset and guaranty obligation by an amount
    equal to the pro rata portion of Fannie Mae MBS held in the
    consolidated balance sheets relative to the total amount of
    gross outstanding Fannie Mae MBS. In addition, we reclassified a
    pro rata portion of recorded guaranty fee income to interest
    income in an amount equal to the ratio of the Fannie Mae MBS
    held in the consolidated balance sheets relative to the total
    amount of gross outstanding Fannie Mae MBS. Because each Fannie
    Mae MBS trust to which we have a guaranty obligation, and from
    which we have the right to receive guaranty fees, is separate
    from us, we should not have reduced the recorded guaranty asset
    and guaranty obligation or reclassified guaranty fee income with
    respect to Fannie Mae MBS held in the consolidated balance
    sheets unless we had consolidated the related MBS trust.
    Correcting this error increased  Guaranty assets  and
     Guaranty obligations  in the consolidated balance
    sheets, and resulted in a decrease in  Net interest
    income  of $948 million and $768 million and a
    corresponding increase in  Guaranty fee income  in the
    consolidated statements of income for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

We did not record certain retained interests as guaranty assets
    and certain recourse obligations as guaranty obligations in
    connection with the transfer of loans to MBS trusts for which we
    were the transferor pursuant to SFAS 125 and SFAS 140.
    To correct this error, we examined all of our guaranty
    arrangements in these transactions and recorded guaranty assets
    and guaranty obligations as applicable. The impact of correcting
    this error resulted in an increase in  Guaranty
    assets  and  Guaranty obligations  in the
    consolidated balance sheets with any remaining difference being
    recorded as a component of  Investment losses, net  in
    the consolidated statements of income.

We assume an obligation to perform certain limited master
    servicing activities in connection with securitizations and are
    compensated for assuming this obligation. We did not previously
    recognize master servicing assets and related deferred profit
    associated with our role as master servicer pursuant to
    SFAS 125 and SFAS 140. To correct this error, we
    reviewed our trust agreements to determine when we had master
    servicing responsibilities. The impact of correcting this error
    generally resulted in the recognition of master servicing assets
    as a component of  Other assets  and the recognition
    of a corresponding amount of deferred profit as a component of
     Other liabilities,  with subsequent amortization and
    impairment recorded to  Fee and other income  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

Impairment
    of Guaranty Assets and Buy-ups  

We identified the following errors associated with the
    impairment of guaranties: we did not assess guaranty assets or
    buy-ups for impairment in accordance with EITF 99-20 and
    SFAS 115, as appropriate.

The restatement adjustments related to impairments resulted in a
    pre-tax decrease in net income of $869 million and
    $313 million and a decrease in total assets of
    $1.8 billion and $1.1 billion for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Each of the
    errors that resulted in these adjustments is described below.

We did not assess guaranty assets for impairment. As a result,
    guaranty assets were overstated in previously issued financial
    statements. The impact of correcting this error resulted in a
    reduction to  Guaranty assets 

F-16

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

with a proportional reduction to  Guaranty
    obligations  in the consolidated balance sheets. The
    impairment of the guaranty asset was fully offset by
    amortization of the guaranty obligation. While the impairment of
    the guaranty asset is categorized in this section, the
    proportionate reduction of the guaranty obligation is
    categorized in the  Recognition, Valuation and Amortization
    of Guaranties and Master Servicing  section above.

We did not assess buy-ups for impairment. As a result,
     Other assets  and  Guaranty fee income 
    were overstated in previously issued financial statements. The
    impact of correcting this error resulted in a decrease in
     Other assets  in the consolidated balance sheets and
    a decrease in  Guaranty fee income  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

Amortization
    of Cost Basis Adjustments   

We identified multiple errors in amortization of mortgage loan
    and securities premiums, discounts and other cost basis
    adjustments. The most significant errors were that we applied
    incorrect prepayment speeds to cost basis adjustments; we
    aggregated dissimilar assets in computing amortization; and we
    incorrectly recorded cumulative amortization adjustments.
    Additionally, the correction of cost basis adjustments in other
    error categories, primarily settled mortgage loan and security
    commitments, resulted in the recognition of additional
    amortization. The errors that led to these corrected cost basis
    adjustments are described in the  Commitments, 
     Investments in Securities  and  MBS Trust
    Consolidation and Sale Accounting  sections above.

The restatement adjustments relating to these amortization
    errors resulted in a pre-tax decrease in net income of
    $1.3 billion and a pre-tax increase in net income of
    $135 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
    2002, respectively. Each of the errors that resulted in these
    adjustments is described below.

SFAS 91 requires the recognition of cost basis adjustments
    as an adjustment to interest income over the life of a loan or
    security by using the interest method and applying a constant
    effective yield ( level yield ). In calculating a
    level yield, we calculate amortization factors, based on
    prepayment and interest rate assumptions. Our method for
    estimating prepayment rates applied incorrect assumptions to
    certain assets.

In addition, we incorrectly aggregated dissimilar assets in
    computing amortization. Our amortization calculation aggregated
    loans with a wide range of coupon rates, which in some cases led
    to amortization results that did not produce an appropriate
    level yield over the life of the loans. To correct this error,
    we recalculated amortization of loans and securities factoring
    in prepayment and interest rate assumptions that were applied to
    the appropriate asset types. The impact of correcting these
    errors resulted in changes in the periodic recognition of
    interest income in the consolidated statements of income.

The manner in which we calculated and recorded the cumulative
     catch-up  adjustment was inconsistent with the
    provisions of SFAS 91. The impact of correcting this error
    resulted in changes in the periodic recognition of interest
    income in the consolidated statements of income.

Other
    Adjustments   

In addition to the previously noted errors, we identified and
    recorded other restatement adjustments related to accounting,
    presentation, classification and other errors that did not fall
    within the six categories described above.

The accumulation of the other restatement adjustments listed
    below resulted in a pre-tax decrease in net income of
    $926 million and $343 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Also, the other
    restatement adjustments impacted the consolidated balance
    sheets, resulting in an increase of $5.0 billion and
    $4.5 billion in total assets and an increase of
    $5.2 billion and $4.3 billion in total liabilities as
    of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

The following categories summarize the most significant other
    adjustments recorded as part of the restatement:

Accounting for partnership investments.   We
    incorrectly accounted for a portion of our low-income housing
    tax credit ( LIHTC ) and other partnership investments
    using the effective yield method instead

F-17

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

of using the equity method of accounting. The correction of this
    error resulted in changes in the carrying amount of these
    investments in the consolidated balance sheets, the recognition
    of our obligations to fund the partnerships, and changes in the
    income recognition on these investments in the consolidated
    statements of income. Additionally, we failed to consolidate a
    portion of the LIHTC and other partnership investments in which
    we were deemed to be the primary beneficiary pursuant to
    FIN 46R, which resulted in the reversal of any previously
    recorded investment and recognition of the underlying assets and
    liabilities of the entity in the consolidated balance sheets
    and, at the same time, we incorrectly consolidated some
    partnership investments which had the reverse effect. We also
    made errors in the capitalization of interest expense,
    measurement of impairment, and the recognition of our
    obligations to fund our partnership investments. The correction
    of these errors resulted in changes in the amount of interest
    expense and impairment recognized in the consolidated statements
    of income. Lastly, we made errors in the computation of net
    operating losses and tax credits allocated to us from these
    partnerships. The correction of these errors resulted in changes
    in  Deferred tax assets  in the consolidated balance
    sheets and changes in the  Provision for federal income
    taxes  in the consolidated statements of income. These
    restatement adjustments resulted in a pre-tax decrease in net
    income of $293 million and $199 million for the years
    ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In addition
    to the tax provision recorded for the partnership investments
    restatement adjustments, we also recorded a decrease in federal
    income tax expense of $138 million and $206 million
    due to changes in the recognition and classification of related
    tax credits and net operating losses for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These restatement
    adjustments also impacted the consolidated balance sheets,
    resulting in an increase of $791 million and
    $1.2 billion in total assets and an increase of
    $878 million and $1.3 billion in total liabilities as
    of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Classification of loans held for sale.   We
    incorrectly classified loans held for securitization at a future
    date as HFI loans rather than HFS loans pursuant to
    SFAS No. 65,  Accounting for Certain Mortgage
    Banking Activities  ( SFAS 65 ). Accordingly,
    we did not record lower of cost or market ( LOCOM )
    adjustments on these loans. To correct this error, we recorded
    an adjustment to reclassify such loans from HFI to HFS and
    recorded an associated LOCOM adjustment. These restatement
    adjustments resulted in a pre-tax decrease in net income of
    $303 million and $40 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Provision for credit losses.   We incorrectly
    recorded the  Provision for credit losses  due to
    errors associated with the  Allowance for loan
    losses,   Reserve for guaranty losses,  real
    estate owned ( REO ) and troubled debt restructurings
    ( TDR ).

We made errors in developing our estimates of the
     Allowance for loan losses  and the  Reserve for
    guaranty losses,  which resulted in an understatement of
    the provision for credit losses. These errors were primarily
    related to the use of inappropriate data in the calculation of
    the allowance and reserve, such as incorrect loan populations,
    inaccurate default statistics and inaccurate loss severity in
    the event that loans default. We also made judgmental
    adjustments to the calculated allowance without adequate support
    and incorrectly included an estimate of credit enhancement
    collections in the estimate of the  Allowance for loan
    losses.  Estimates of recoveries from credit enhancements
    that were not entered into contemporaneously or in contemplation
    of a guaranty or loan purchase should not have been included in
    the overall estimate of the allowance or the reserve. As a
    result of misclassifying certain loans as HFI, we incorrectly
    recorded an  Allowance for loan losses  on these
    loans. Finally, we did not properly allocate the reserve between
    the  Allowance for loan losses  and the  Reserve
    for guaranty losses.  To correct these errors, we
    recalculated the allowance and reserve with updated information
    and supportable data, reviewed and documented any judgmental
    adjustments and appropriately applied estimates of recoveries
    from credit enhancements to the loan population.

We made errors in calculating loan charge-off amounts. These
    errors were related to REO and foreclosed property expense,
    including making inappropriate determinations of the initial
    cost basis of

F-18

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

REO assets at foreclosure, as well as not expensing costs
    related to foreclosure activities in the proper periods. To
    correct these errors, we reviewed REO and foreclosed property
    expense to determine and record the appropriate cost basis and
    timing of charge-offs and expense recognition. We also
    incorrectly recognized insurance proceeds in excess of estimated
    charge-off at foreclosure and fair value gains above the
    recorded investment of REO properties as recoveries to the
    allowance and the reserve. To correct this error, we
    recalculated the allowance and reserve.

We historically did not recognize modifications that granted
    concessions to borrowers as TDRs pursuant to
    SFAS No. 114,  Accounting by Creditors for
    Impairment of a Loan (an amendment of FASB Statement No. 5
    and 15)  ( SFAS 114 ). To correct this
    error, we recognized these modifications as TDRs and recorded an
    adjustment to the  Allowance for loan losses  and the
     Provision for credit losses  in the consolidated
    balance sheets and consolidated statements of income,
    respectively.

The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a pre-tax decrease in net income of
    $278 million and $201 million as well as an increase
    in the provision for credit losses of $273 million and
    $164 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
    2002, respectively.

Early funding.   We offer early funding options
    to lenders that allow them to receive cash payments for mortgage
    loans that will be securitized into Fannie Mae MBS at a future
    date. A corresponding forward commitment to sell the security
    that will be backed by the mortgage loans is required to be
    delivered with the mortgage loans and is executed on the
    settlement date of the commitment. We incorrectly recorded these
    transactions as HFS loans prior to the actual creation of the
    Fannie Mae MBS when we were the intended purchaser of the MBS.
    The impact of correcting this error was to remove any previous
    HFS loans from these transactions and record the transactions as
     Advances to lenders,  carried at amortized cost, in
    the consolidated balance sheets, resulting in a decrease of
    $4.7 billion and $20.5 billion in  Mortgage
    loans  with a corresponding increase in  Advances to
    lenders  as of December 31, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively.

Collateral associated with derivatives
    contracts.   We did not record cash collateral we
    received associated with some derivatives contracts. The impact
    of correcting this error was to record additional  Cash and
    cash equivalents  and  Restricted cash  of
    $3.4 billion and $1.1 billion and a corresponding
    liability to our derivative counterparties in  Other
    liabilities  as of December 31, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively.

The following items, while restatement errors, were not
    individually significant to the consolidated financial
    statements for the restatement period:

Accounting for reverse mortgages.   We made
    errors in accounting for reverse mortgages. When computing
    interest income on reverse mortgages we did not use the expected
    life of the borrower and house price expectations in the
    interest income calculations and did not apply the retrospective
    level yield method. To correct this error, we recalculated
    interest income for these mortgages and recorded the change in
     Interest income  in the consolidated statements of
    income. We also incorrectly recorded loan loss reserves on these
    mortgages. To correct this error, we adjusted the
     Allowance for loan losses  and the  Provision
    for credit losses  in the consolidated balance sheets and
    consolidated statements of income, respectively.

Accrued interest on delinquent loans.   We
    incorrectly included a recovery rate, which was based on
    historic trends of loans that subsequently changed to current
    payment status, in calculating accrued interest on delinquent
    loans. The effect of this error was to record interest income on
    loans that should have been on nonaccrual status. The correction
    of this error resulted in the reversal of interest income
    recorded in the periods when loans should have been on
    nonaccrual status.

Amortization of prepaid mortgage insurance.   We
    amortized prepaid mortgage insurance over a period that is not
    representative of the period in which we received the benefits
    of the mortgage insurance. To correct this error, we
    recalculated amortization of this mortgage insurance and
    recorded the difference in  Other expenses  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

F-19

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Computation of interest income.   We incorrectly
    calculated interest income on certain investments. The
    calculations utilized a convention that was based on the average
    number of days of interest in a month regardless of the actual
    number of days in the month. We corrected the calculation of
    interest using the actual number of days in the month and
    adjusted the timing of interest income recognition.

Mortgage insurance contract.   We entered into a
    mortgage insurance contract that did not transfer sufficient
    underlying risk of economic loss to the insurer and therefore
    did not qualify as mortgage insurance for accounting purposes.
    We incorrectly amortized the premiums paid as an expense. To
    correct this error, we recorded premiums paid on the policy as a
    deposit, reducing such deposit as recoveries from the policy
    were received.

Stock-based compensation.   We made errors in
    the computation and classification of stock-based compensation,
    including the misclassification of some awards as
    non-compensatory when they were compensatory. The impact of
    correcting these errors resulted in the recognition of
    additional  Salaries and employee benefits expense  in
    the consolidated statements of income, a decrease in  Other
    liabilities  and an increase in  Additional paid-in
    capital  in the consolidated balance sheets. None of these
    errors related to awards that were not properly authorized and
    priced.

In addition to the specified errors listed and described above,
    we recognized other restatement adjustments related to our
    revised accounting policies and practices. These adjustments,
    both individually and in the aggregate, did not have a
    significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.

As a result of our restatement adjustments, our effective tax
    rate decreased from the previously reported 26% to 24% for the
    year ended December 31, 2003 and from the previously
    reported 24% to 18% for the year ended December 31, 2002.
    These decreases resulted from errors in our tax provision
    relating primarily to the recognition of higher levels of tax
    credits from our investment in affordable housing projects and
    changes to deferred tax balances. As a result, the change in the
    provision for federal taxes as a percentage of the change in
    pre-tax income was higher than the statutory federal rate or our
    effective tax rate. See  Note 11, Income Taxes 
    for our restated tax rate reconciliation. In addition, the tax
    effects were applied to each of the categories identified above
    to display each error category net of tax and with the earnings
    per share impact.

In addition to the consolidated financial statement errors
    discussed above, we incorrectly applied the treasury stock
    method in computing the weighted average shares pursuant to
    SFAS No. 128,  Earnings per
    Share.   This resulted in a different number of
    weighted average dilutive shares outstanding being utilized in
    the earnings per share calculation. While common stock
    outstanding has not been restated, diluted EPS has been
    recalculated using the revised weighted average diluted shares.

We also identified errors in the presentation of business
    segments that were not in conformity with the requirements of
    SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an
    Enterprise and Related Information
     ( SFAS 131 ). For further information on this
    error, see  Note 15, Segment Reporting. 

We made errors in the fair value disclosure of financial
    instruments pursuant to SFAS No. 107,  Disclosures about
    Fair Value of Financial Instruments
     ( SFAS 107 ), by incorrectly calculating the
    fair value of our derivatives, commitments and AFS securities,
    as described above. In addition, we incorrectly calculated the
    fair value of our guaranty assets and guaranty obligations,
    which affected the fair value of our whole loans. We also
    incorrectly calculated the fair value of our HTM securities and
    debt. For our guaranty obligations we did not appropriately
    consider an estimate of the return on capital required by a
    third party to assume our liability. Correcting this error
    resulted in an increase in our guaranty obligations of
    approximately $1.2 billion (net of tax) and a decrease in the
    fair value of our whole loans of approximately $200 million
    (net of tax). This increase in the fair value of our guaranty
    obligations, coupled with other fair value changes made in
     re-estimating 
    the guaranty components, resulted in a decrease in the fair
    value of our net guaranty assets of approximately
    $1.7 billion (net of tax) as of December 31, 2003. For
    our HTM securities, we did not appropriately consider security
    characteristics and aggregation in developing our estimate of
    fair value. Correcting these errors resulted in a reduction in
    the fair value of these assets of approximately
    $800 million

F-20

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(net of tax) as of December 31, 2003, which was primarily
    due to changes in the estimated fair values of mortgage revenue
    bonds and REMICs. For our debt, we did not appropriately exclude
    certain commission costs associated with the issuance of new
    debt securities in creating the yield curve we used for
    estimating fair value. Correcting this error resulted in an
    increase in the estimated fair value of our debt of
    approximately $300 million (net of tax) as of
    December 31, 2003. For our out-of-the-money derivative
    options, we did not fully incorporate available market
    information that differentiates at-the-money volatilities from
    out-of-the-money volatilities in estimating fair value.
    Correcting the error resulted in a decrease in the estimated
    fair value of our derivatives of approximately $200 million
    (net of tax) as of December 31, 2003. To correct these
    errors, we recalculated the fair value of these items using new
    assumptions, observable data and appropriate levels of
    specificity. The impact of recalculating the estimated fair
    value of these items is reflected in  Note 19, Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments. 

Financial
    Statement Impact   

The following tables display the net impact of restatement
    adjustments in the previously issued consolidated balance
    sheets, consolidated statements of income, consolidated
    statements of cash flows and regulatory capital for 2003 and
    2002. In addition, we have included tables displaying the net
    impact of restatement adjustments on stockholders  equity
    and in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31,
    2001. The following consolidated financial statements are
    presented in a condensed format.

F-21

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Balance
    Sheet Impact  

The following table displays the cumulative impact of the
    restatement on the condensed consolidated balance sheet through
    and as of December 31, 2003.

(a)   

Certain previously reported
    balances have been reclassified to conform to the current
    condensed consolidated balance sheet presentation, as described
    in  Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies. 

(b)   

Reflects the impact of MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; the derecognition of HTM
    securities at amortized cost and recognition of AFS and trading
    securities at fair value; the reversal of the SFAS 149
    transition adjustment and recognition of revised securities
    commitment basis adjustments; the recognition of revised
    amortization on securities cost basis adjustments; and the
    derecognition of securities related to failed dollar roll
    repurchase transactions that did not meet the criteria for
    secured borrowing accounting.

(c)   

Reflects the impact of MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; the reclassification of
     Mortgage loans  to  Advances to lenders; 
    the recognition of revised mortgage loan commitment basis
    adjustments; the recognition of the LOCOM adjustment for loans
    classified as HFS; and the recognition of revised amortization
    on mortgage loan cost basis adjustments.

(d)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals from accrued interest and
    recognition of derivative fair value adjustments.

(e)   

Reflects the impairment of guaranty
    assets; the reversal of
     buy-up 
    amounts included in the basis of the guaranty assets; and the
    derecognition of guaranty arrangements upon consolidation.

(f)   

Reflects the impact of restatement
    adjustments on deferred taxes and the correction of tax
    credit-related errors associated with partnership investments.

(g)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals to  Derivative assets at fair
    value;  the reclassification of  Advances to
    lenders  from  Mortgage loans;  the impairment of
    buy-ups; the recognition of  Restricted cash  and

F-22

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Cash and cash
    equivalents  related to collateral received from
    derivatives counterparties; and the impact of cost basis
    transfers between error categories.

(h)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded unrealized gains and losses on the hedged items
    associated with fair value hedges; the recognition of revised
    amortization of debt basis adjustments; and the recognition of
    short-term and long-term debt upon consolidation of MBS trusts
    in which we own less than 100% of the related securities.

(i)   

Reflects the valuation adjustment
    related to the guaranty obligations; the reclassification of
    buy-downs and risk-based pricing adjustments from  Other
    liabilities;  and the derecognition of guaranty
    arrangements upon consolidation.

(j)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals to  Derivative liabilities at
    fair value;  the reversal of short-term debt associated
    with failed dollar roll repurchase transactions; the
    reclassification of buy-downs and risk-based pricing adjustments
    to  Guaranty obligations;  and the recognition of
    liabilities to derivative counterparties associated with
    restricted cash.

(k)   

Reflects the recognition of
    derivative fair value adjustments to the consolidated statements
    of income and other income or expense related adjustments.

(l)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded derivatives fair value adjustments and the recognition
    of unrealized gains (losses) on AFS securities and buy-ups.

The following table displays the cumulative impact of the
    restatement on the condensed consolidated balance sheet through
    and as of December 31, 2002.

(a)   

Certain previously reported
    balances have been reclassified to conform to the current
    condensed consolidated balance sheet presentation, as described
    in  Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies. 

(b)   

Reflects the impact of MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; the derecognition of HTM
    securities at amortized cost and recognition of AFS and trading
    securities at fair value, including commitments accounted for
    under
     EITF 96-11; 
    the recognition of revised securities commitment basis
    adjustments; the recognition of revised amortization on
    securities cost basis adjustments; and the derecognition of
    securities related to failed dollar roll repurchase transactions
    that did not meet the criteria for secured borrowing accounting.

F-23

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(c)   

Reflects the impact of MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; the reclassification of
     Mortgage loans  to  Advances to lenders; 
    the recognition of mortgage loan commitment basis adjustments;
    the recognition of the LOCOM adjustment for loans classified as
    HFS; and the recognition of revised amortization on mortgage
    loan cost basis adjustments.

(d)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals from accrued interest and
    recognition of derivative fair value adjustments.

(e)   

Reflects the impact of restatement
    adjustments on deferred taxes and the correction of tax
    credit-related errors associated with partnership investments.

(f)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals to  Derivative assets at fair
    value;  the reclassification of  Advances to
    lenders  from  Mortgage loans;  the impairment of
    buy-ups; the recognition of  Restricted cash  and
     Cash and cash equivalents  related to collateral
    received from derivatives counterparties; and the impact of cost
    basis transfers between error categories.

(g)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded unrealized gains and losses on hedged items associated
    with fair value hedges; the recognition of revised amortization
    of debt basis adjustments; and the recognition of short-term and
    long-term debt upon consolidation of MBS trusts in which we own
    less than 100% of the related securities.

(h)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals to  Derivative liabilities at
    fair value;  the reversal of short-term debt associated
    with failed dollar roll repurchase transactions; the correction
    of amortization of buy-downs and risk-based pricing adjustments;
    and the recognition of liabilities to derivative counterparties
    associated with restricted cash.

(i)   

Reflects the recognition of
    derivative fair value adjustments to the consolidated statements
    of income and other income or expense related adjustments.

(j)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded derivatives fair value adjustments and the recognition
    of unrealized gains (losses) on AFS securities and buy-ups.

The following table displays the cumulative impact of the
    restatement on the condensed consolidated balance sheet for all
    periods through and as of December 31, 2001.

F-24

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(a)   

Certain previously reported
    balances have been reclassified to conform to the current
    condensed consolidated balance sheet presentation, as described
    in  Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies. 

(b)   

Reflects the impact of MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; the derecognition of HTM
    securities at amortized cost and recognition of AFS and trading
    securities at fair value, including commitments accounted for
    under
     EITF 96-11; 
    the recognition of revised securities commitment basis
    adjustments; the recognition of revised amortization on
    securities cost basis adjustments; and the derecognition of
    securities related to failed dollar roll repurchase transactions
    that did not meet the criteria for secured borrowing accounting.

(c)   

Reflects impact of MBS trust
    consolidation and sale accounting; the reclassification of
     Mortgage loans  to  Advances to lenders; 
    the recognition of mortgage loan commitment basis adjustments;
    the recognition of the LOCOM adjustment for loans classified as
    HFS; and the recognition of revised amortization on mortgage
    loan cost basis adjustments.

(d)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals from accrued interest and
    recognition of derivative fair value adjustments.

(e)   

Reflects the impact of restatement
    adjustments on deferred taxes and the correction of tax-credit
    related errors associated with partnership investments.

(f)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals to  Derivative assets at fair
    value;  the reclassification of  Advances to
    lenders  from  Mortgage loans;  the impairment of
    buy-ups; the recognition of  Restricted cash  and
     Cash and cash equivalents  related to collateral
    received from derivatives counterparties; and the impact of cost
    basis transfers between error categories.

(g)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded unrealized gains and losses on hedged items associated
    with fair value hedges; the recognition of revised amortization
    of debt basis adjustments; and the recognition of short-term and
    long-term debt upon consolidation of MBS trusts in which we own
    less than 100% of the related securities.

(h)   

Reflects the reclassification of
    interest rate swap accruals to  Derivative liabilities at
    fair value;  the reversal of short-term debt associated
    with failed dollar roll repurchase transactions; the correction
    of amortization of buy-downs and risk-based pricing adjustments;
    and the recognition of liabilities to derivative counterparties
    associated with restricted cash.

(i)   

Reflects the recognition of
    derivative fair value adjustments to the consolidated statements
    of income and other income or expense related adjustments.

(j)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded derivatives fair value adjustments and the recognition
    of unrealized gains (losses) on AFS securities and buy-ups.

The following table displays the cumulative impact of the
    restatement on consolidated stockholders  equity in the
    condensed consolidated balance sheet through and as of
    December 31, 2001.

(a)   

Reflects the recognition of
    derivative fair value gains (losses) and revised amortization of
    debt cost basis adjustments.

F-25

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(b)   

Reflects the reversal of previously
    recorded derivative fair value losses.

(c)   

Reflects the recognition of net
    unrealized gains on AFS securities.

Statement
    of Income Impact  

The following table displays the impact of the restatement on
    the December 31, 2003 condensed consolidated statement of
    income.

(a)   

Certain amounts have been
    reclassified to conform to the current condensed income
    statements presentation, as described in  Note 2,
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. 

F-26

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table displays the impact of the restatement on
    the December 31, 2002 condensed consolidated statement of
    income.

(a)   

Certain amounts have been
    reclassified to conform to the current condensed income
    statements presentation, as described below in
     Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies. 

See the  Summary of Restatement Adjustments  section
    above for further details on the impact of the restatement
    errors on the consolidated statements of income.

Statement
    of Cash Flows Impact  

The following table displays the impact of the restatement on
    the December 31, 2003 and 2002 consolidated statements of
    cash flows.

The restatement adjustments resulted in a net increase in
     Cash and cash equivalents  of $2.0 billion and
    $489 million during the years ended December 31, 2003
    and 2002, respectively. The restatement adjustment to increase
    cash and cash equivalents was the result of recognizing cash
    collateral associated with certain derivatives contracts, which
    was partially offset by classifying cash due to certain MBS
    trusts as restricted cash.

F-27

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

These restatement adjustments and errors in the prior cash flow
    presentation resulted in a net increase of $38.7 billion
    and $30.8 billion in cash flows from operating activities,
    a net decrease of $36.9 billion and $42.2 billion in
    cash flows from investing activities and a net increase of
    $206 million and $11.9 billion in cash flows from
    financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2003
    and 2002, respectively. The primary causes of these changes were
    misclassifications of cash flows related to derivatives, trading
    securities and HFS loans, and an overstatement of cash flows
    from the sale of mortgage loans. In connection with the
    misapplication of hedge accounting, we incorrectly classified
    derivatives cash flows as investing and financing activities
    instead of as operating activities. We determined that we
    misapplied SFAS No. 102,  Statement of Cash
    Flows Exemption of Certain Enterprises and Classification
    of Cash Flows from Certain Securities Acquired for Resale (an
    amendment to FASB Statement No. 95) , which requires
    cash flows from trading securities and HFS loans to be
    classified as operating cash flows. As previously discussed, we
    incorrectly recorded sales of mortgage loans to MBS trusts that
    did not meet the definition of a QSPE under SFAS 140, which
    resulted in a net overall increase in cash flows from investing
    activities.

Regulatory
    Capital Impact  

The following table displays the impact of the restatement on
    regulatory capital as of December 31, 2003 and 2002.

The restatement adjustments resulted in a net decrease in
    regulatory core capital of $7.5 billion and
    $7.6 billion as of December 31, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively. Additionally, the restatement adjustments of
    $7.7 billion and $8.1 billion as of December 31,
    2003 and 2002, respectively, caused the previously reported
    surplus of required minimum capital to become a deficit.

Although we had a deficit of required minimum capital and the
    restatement adjustments decreased required critical capital by
    $7.6 billion and $7.9 billion as of December 31,
    2003 and 2002, we maintained a surplus of required critical
    capital.

These changes in our regulatory capital measures were primarily
    the result of errors relating to our accounting for derivative
    instruments. As AOCI is not included in the calculation of
    required minimum or critical capital,

F-28

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

the reclassification of net derivative losses from AOCI into net
    income had a significant negative impact on required minimum and
    critical capital, despite an increase in stockholders 
    equity.

2.    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

We are an entirely stockholder-owned corporation organized and
    existing under the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter
    Act, which we refer to as the  Charter Act  or our
     charter  (the Federal National Mortgage Association
    Charter Act, 12 U.S.C.  1716 et seq.). We were
    established in 1938 as a U.S. government entity. We became
    a mixed-ownership corporation by legislation enacted in 1954,
    with our preferred stock owned by the federal government and our
    common stock held by private investors. We became a fully
    privately-owned corporation by legislation enacted in 1968. The
    U.S. government does not guarantee, directly or indirectly,
    our securities or other obligations. Our regulators include
    OFHEO, the Department of Housing and Urban Development
    ( HUD ), the SEC and the Department of Treasury.

We operate in the secondary mortgage market by purchasing
    mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities, including
    mortgage-related securities guaranteed by us, from primary
    market institutions, such as commercial banks, savings and loan
    associations, mortgage banking companies, securities dealers and
    other investors. We do not lend money directly to consumers. We
    provide additional liquidity in the secondary mortgage market by
    issuing guaranteed mortgage-related securities.

We operate under three business segments: Single-Family Credit
    Guaranty, Housing and Community Development ( HCD )
    and Capital Markets. Our Single-Family Credit Guaranty segment
    generates revenue primarily from the guaranty fees we charge to
    compensate us for assuming the credit risk on the mortgage loans
    underlying guaranteed Single-Family Fannie Mae MBS. Our HCD
    segment generates revenue from a variety of sources including
    multifamily guaranty and transaction fees, bond credit
    enhancement fees, and investments in LIHTC and other housing
    partnerships. In addition, our HCD segment provides capital for
    housing projects that, among other things, generate tax credits.
    Our Capital Markets segment invests in mortgage loans,
    mortgage-related securities and liquid investments and generates
    interest income from those assets.

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
    as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the
    amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
    Management has made significant estimates in a variety of areas,
    including but not limited to, valuation of certain financial
    instruments and other assets and liabilities, amortization of
    deferred price adjustments, the allowance for loan losses and
    reserve for guaranty losses, and assumptions used in the
    calculation of expected losses
     and/or 
    expected residual returns in certain variable interest entities
    for consolidation determinations. Actual results could be
    different from these estimates.

Principles
    of Consolidation   

The consolidated financial statements include our accounts as
    well as other entities in which we have a controlling financial
    interest. All significant intercompany balances and transactions
    have been eliminated.

In addition to voting interests in an entity, a controlling
    financial interest may also exist in entities through
    arrangements that do not involve voting interests. Beginning in
    2003, we began evaluating entities deemed to be variable
    interest entities ( VIE ) under FIN 46R to
    determine when we must consolidate the assets, liabilities and
    non-controlling interests of a VIE. A VIE is an entity
    (i) that has total equity at risk that is not sufficient to
    finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
    support from other entities, (ii) where the group of equity
    holders does not have the ability to make significant decisions
    about the entity s activities, or the obligation to absorb
    the entity s expected losses or the right to receive the
    entity s expected residual returns, or both, or
    (iii) where the voting rights of some investors are not
    proportional to their obligations to absorb the expected losses
    of the entity, their rights to receive the expected residual
    returns of the entity, or both, and substantially all of the
    entity s activities either involve or are conducted on
    behalf of an

F-29

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

investor that has disproportionately few voting rights. The
    primary types of entities we evaluate under FIN 46R include
    those special purpose entities ( SPEs ) established to
    facilitate the securitization of mortgage assets in which we
    have the unilateral ability to liquidate the trust, those SPEs
    that do not meet the QSPE criteria, our LIHTC partnerships,
    other tax partnerships and other entities that meet the VIE
    criteria.

If an entity is a VIE, we determine if our variable interest
    causes us to be considered the primary beneficiary. We are the
    primary beneficiary and would consolidate the entity if we
    absorbed the majority of expected losses or expected residual
    returns, or both. In making the determination as to whether we
    are the primary beneficiary, we evaluate the design of the
    entity, including the risks that cause variability, the purpose
    for which the entity was created, and the variability that the
    entity was designed to create and pass along to its interest
    holders. When the primary beneficiary cannot be identified
    through a qualitative analysis, we use internal cash flow
    models, which may include Monte Carlo simulations, to compute
    and allocate expected losses or residual returns to each
    variable interest holder. The allocation of expected cash flows
    is based upon the relative contractual rights and preferences of
    each interest holder in the VIE s capital structure. When
    it is determined that we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE,
    we initially record the assets and liabilities of the VIE in the
    consolidated financial statements at the current fair value. For
    entities that hold only financial assets, any difference between
    the current fair value and the previous carrying amount of our
    interests in the VIE is recorded as  Extraordinary gains
    (losses), net of tax effect  in the consolidated statements
    of income. If we are determined to be the primary beneficiary
    when the VIE is created, we initially record the assets and
    liabilities of the VIE in the consolidated financial statements
    by carrying over our investment in the VIE to the consolidated
    assets and liabilities and no gain or loss is recorded.

If a consolidated VIE subsequently should not be consolidated
    because we cease to be deemed the primary beneficiary or we
    qualify for one of the scope exceptions of FIN 46R (for
    example, the entity is a QSPE in which we no longer have the
    unilateral ability to liquidate), we deconsolidate the VIE by
    carrying over our net basis in the consolidated assets and
    liabilities to our investment in the VIE.

As a result of our adoption of FIN 46R in 2003, we recorded
    a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of
    $34 million, net of taxes, related to the difference
    between the net amount added to the consolidated balance sheet
    and the amount of previously recognized interest in the newly
    consolidated entity.

Prior to our adoption of FIN 46R, the decision of whether
    to consolidate SPEs for which we did not have the unilateral
    ability to liquidate or that did not meet the criteria to be a
    QSPE primarily included consideration of whether a third party
    had made a substantive equity investment in an SPE, which party
    had voting rights, if any, which party made decisions about the
    assets in an SPE, which party was at risk of loss and whether we
    were the sponsor of an SPE. We consolidated an SPE if we
    retained or acquired control over the risks and rewards of the
    assets in the SPE of which we were the sponsor. We also
    consolidated an SPE if we had the unilateral ability to
    liquidate. We consolidated the SPE by carrying over our basis in
    the investment in the SPE to the consolidated assets and
    liabilities of the SPE. No gain or loss was recorded in
    connection with the consolidation of SPEs prior to the effective
    date of FIN 46R.

Investments in LIHTC partnerships were evaluated for
    consolidation, prior to the adoption of FIN 46R, in
    accordance with
     SOP 78-9, 
     Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures
      ( SOP 78-9 ). 
    We generally were not required to consolidate these partnerships
    because our limited partnership interest did not provide us with
    voting rights or control of the partnership.

Portfolio
    Securitizations   

Portfolio securitizations involve the transfer of mortgage loans
    or mortgage-related securities from the consolidated balance
    sheets to a trust (an SPE) to create Fannie Mae MBS, REMICs or
    other types of beneficial interests. We account for portfolio
    securitizations in accordance with SFAS 140, which requires
    that we evaluate a transfer of financial assets to determine if
    such transfer qualifies as a sale. Transfers of financial assets
    for which we surrender control and receive compensation other
    than beneficial interests are recorded as sales. Upon completion
    of a transfer that qualifies as a sale, we derecognize all
    assets transferred. The

F-30

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

previous carrying amount of the transferred assets is allocated
    between the assets sold and the retained interests, if any, in
    proportion to their relative fair values at the date of
    transfer. A gain or loss is recorded as a component of
     Investment losses, net  in the consolidated
    statements of income, which represents the difference between
    the allocated carrying amount of the assets sold and the
    proceeds from the sale, net of any liabilities incurred, which
    may include a recourse obligation for our financial guaranty.
    Retained interests are primarily in the form of Fannie Mae MBS,
    REMIC certificates, guaranty assets and master servicing assets
    ( MSA ).

Our retained interests in the form of Fannie Mae MBS, REMICs, or
    other types of beneficial interests are included in
     Investments in securities  in the consolidated
    balance sheets. Our retained interests related to our guaranty
    are included in  Guaranty assets  in the consolidated
    balance sheets and a description of our subsequent accounting
    for these retained interests, as well as how we determine fair
    value for the guaranty assets, is included in the  Guaranty
    Accounting  section of this note. Our retained interests in
    the form of MSA are included as a component of  Other
    assets  in the consolidated balance sheets and a
    description of our subsequent accounting for these retained
    interests, as well as how we determine fair value for MSA, is
    included in the  Master Servicing  section of this
    note.

If a portfolio securitization does not meet the criteria for
    sale treatment, the transferred assets remain on the
    consolidated balance sheets and we record a liability to the
    extent of any proceeds we received in connection with such
    transfer.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents and Statements of Cash Flows   

Short-term highly liquid instruments with a maturity of three
    months or less that are readily convertible to cash are
    considered cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents
    are carried at cost, which approximates fair value.

Additionally, we may pledge cash equivalent securities as
    collateral as discussed below. We record items that are
    specifically purchased as part of the liquid investment
    portfolio as  Investments in securities  in the
    consolidated balance sheets in accordance with
    SFAS No. 95,  Statement of Cash Flows
     ( SFAS 95 ).

We classify short-term U.S. Treasury Bills as  Cash
    and cash equivalents  in the consolidated balance sheets.
    The carrying value of these securities, which approximates fair
    value, was $507 million and $849 million as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The consolidated statements of cash flows are prepared in
    accordance with SFAS 95. In the presentation of the
    consolidated statements of cash flows, cash flows from
    derivatives that do not contain financing elements, mortgage
    loans held for sale, trading securities and guaranty fees,
    including
     buy-up  and
    buy-down payments, are included as operating activities. Federal
    funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell
    are presented as investing activities, while federal funds
    purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are
    presented as financing activities. Cash flows related to dollar
    roll repurchase transactions that do not meet the SFAS 140
    requirements to be classified as secured borrowings are recorded
    as purchases and sales of securities in investing activities,
    whereas cash flows related to dollar roll repurchase
    transactions qualifying as secured borrowings pursuant to
    SFAS 140 are considered proceeds and repayments of
    short-term debt in financing activities.

Restricted
    Cash   

When we collect cash that is due to certain MBS trusts in
    advance of our requirement to remit these amounts to the trust,
    we record the collected cash amount as  Restricted
    cash  in the consolidated balance sheets. As of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, we had  Restricted
    cash  of $445 million and $284 million,
    respectively, related to such activity. We also have restricted
    cash related to certain collateral arrangements as described in
    the  Collateral  section of this note.

F-31

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Securities
    Purchased under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold under
    Agreements to Repurchase   

We treat securities purchased under agreements to resell and
    securities sold under agreements to repurchase as secured
    financing transactions when the transactions meet all of the
    conditions of a secured financing in SFAS 140. We record
    these transactions at the amounts at which the securities will
    be subsequently reacquired or resold, including accrued
    interest. When securities purchased under agreements to resell
    or securities sold under agreements to repurchase do not meet
    all of the conditions of a secured financing, we account for the
    transactions as purchases or sales, respectively.

Investments
    in Securities   

Securities
    Classified as
     Available-for-Sale 
    or Trading  

We classify and account for our securities as either AFS or
    trading in accordance with SFAS 115. Currently, we do not
    have any securities classified as HTM, although we may elect to
    do so in the future, but not earlier than December 31,
    2006. AFS securities are measured at fair value in the
    consolidated balance sheets, with unrealized gains and losses
    included in AOCI. Trading securities are measured at fair value
    in the consolidated balance sheets with unrealized gains and
    losses included in  Investment losses, net  in the
    consolidated statements of income. Realized gains and losses on
    AFS and trading securities are recognized when securities are
    sold; are calculated based upon the specific cost of each
    security; and are recorded in  Investment losses, net 
    in the consolidated statements of income. Interest and dividends
    on securities, including amortization of the premium and
    discount at acquisition, are included in the consolidated
    statements of income. A description of our amortization policy
    is included in the  Amortization of Cost Basis and Guaranty
    Price Adjustments  section of this note. When we receive
    multiple deliveries of securities on the same day that are
    backed by the same pools of loans, we calculate the specific
    cost of each security as the average price of the trades that
    delivered those securities.

Fair value is determined using quoted market prices in active
    markets, when available. If quoted market prices are not
    available for particular securities, we use quoted market prices
    for similar securities that we adjust for directly observable or
    corroborated (i.e., information purchased from third-party
    service providers) market information. In the absence of
    observable or corroborated market data, we use internally
    developed estimates, incorporating market-based assumptions
    wherever such information is available. For securities whose
    quoted market prices in active markets are available, we use bid
    prices when there is a spread between the bid and ask prices.

Securities
    Accounted for Under EITF 99-20  

We account for purchased and retained beneficial interests in
    securitizations in accordance with EITF Issue
     No. 99-20 
    when such beneficial interests carry a significant premium or
    are not of high credit quality (i.e., they have a rating below
    AA) at inception. We recognize the excess of all cash flows
    attributable to our beneficial interests estimated at the
    acquisition date over the initial investment amount (i.e., the
    accretable yield) as interest income over the life of those
    beneficial interests using the prospective interest method. We
    continue to estimate the projected cash flows over the life of
    those beneficial interests for the purposes of both recognizing
    interest income and evaluating impairment. We recognize an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment in the period in which the fair value of those
    beneficial interests has declined below their respective
    previous carrying amounts and an adverse change in our estimated
    cash flows has occurred. To the extent that there is not an
    adverse change in expected cash flows related to our beneficial
    interests, but the fair values of such beneficial interests have
    declined below their respective previous carrying amounts, we
    qualitatively assess them for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment pursuant to SFAS 115.

Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment  

We evaluate our investments for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment at least quarterly in accordance with SFAS 115
    and other related guidance, including SEC Staff Accounting
    Bulletin Topic 5M,  Other Than Temporary Impairment of
    Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities , and EITF
    Topic
     No. D-44, 

F-32

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Recognition of
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment upon the Planned Sale of a Security Whose Cost
    Exceeds Fair Value.  We consider an investment to be
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired if its estimated fair value is less than its amortized
    cost and we have determined that it is probable that we will be
    unable to collect all of the contractual principal and interest
    payments or we will not hold such securities until they recover
    to their previous carrying amount. For equity investments that
    do not have contractual payments, we primarily consider whether
    their fair value has declined below their carrying amount. For
    all
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment assessments, we consider many factors, including the
    severity and duration of the impairment, recent events specific
    to the issuer
     and/or  the
    industry to which the issuer belongs, external credit ratings
    and recent downgrades, as well as our ability and intent to hold
    such securities until recovery.

We consider guaranties, insurance contracts or other credit
    enhancements (such as collateral) in determining whether it is
    probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due
    according to the contractual terms of the debt security only if
    (i) such guaranties, insurance contracts or other credit
    enhancements provide for payments to be made solely to reimburse
    us for failure of the issuer to satisfy its required payment
    obligations, and (ii) such guaranties, insurance contracts
    or other credit enhancements are contractually attached to that
    security. Guaranties, insurance contracts or other credit
    enhancements are considered contractually attached if they are
    part of and trade with the security upon transfer of the
    security to a third party.

When we decide to sell an impaired investment and do not expect
    the fair value of the security to fully recover prior to the
    expected time of sale, we identify the security as
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired in the period the decision to sell is made.

Beginning in the second quarter of 2004, we agreed with OFHEO to
    a revised method of assessing securities backed by manufactured
    housing loans and by aircraft leases for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment. This revision was accounted for previously as a
    change in estimate. Using this revised method, we recognized
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment when: (i) our estimate of cash flows projected a
    loss of principal or interest; (ii) a security was rated BB
    or lower; (iii) a security was rated BBB or lower and
    trading below 90% of net carrying amount; or (iv) a
    security was rated A or better but trading below 80% of net
    carrying amount. This method has not resulted in any impairment
    incremental to that determined pursuant to our overall
    SFAS 115
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment policy.

When we determine an investment is
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired, we write down the cost basis of the investment to its
    fair value and include the loss in  Investment losses,
    net  in the consolidated statements of income. The fair
    value of the investment then becomes its new cost basis. We do
    not increase the investment s cost basis for subsequent
    recoveries in fair value.

In periods after we recognize an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on debt securities, we use the prospective interest
    method to recognize interest income. Under the prospective
    interest method, we use the new cost basis and the expected cash
    flows from the security to calculate the effective yield.

Mortgage
    Loans   

Upon acquisition, mortgage loans acquired that we intend to sell
    or securitize are classified as HFS while loans acquired that we
    have the ability and the intent to hold for the foreseeable
    future or until maturity are classified as HFI pursuant to
    SFAS 65. If the underlying assets of a consolidated VIE are
    mortgage loans, they are classified as HFS if we were initially
    the transferor of such loans; otherwise, such mortgage loans are
    classified as HFI.

Loans
    Held for Sale  

Loans held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or market
    and typically only include single-family loans, because we do
    not generally sell or securitize multifamily loans from our own
    portfolio. Any excess of an HFS loan s cost over its fair
    value is recognized as a valuation allowance, with changes in
    the valuation allowance recognized as  Investments losses,
    net  in the consolidated statements of income. Purchase
    premiums, discounts
     and/or  other
    loan basis adjustments on HFS loans are deferred upon loan
    acquisition,

F-33

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

included in the cost basis of the loan, and are not amortized.
    We determine any LOCOM adjustment on HFS loans on a pool basis
    by aggregating those loans based on similar risks and
    characteristics, such as product types and interest rates.

In the event that HFS loans are reclassified to HFI, the loans
    are transferred at LOCOM on the date of transfer forming the new
    cost basis of such loans. Any LOCOM adjustment recognized upon
    transfer is recognized as a basis adjustment to the HFI loan.

Loans
    Held for Investment  

HFI loans are reported at their outstanding unpaid principal
    balance adjusted for any deferred and unamortized basis
    adjustments, including purchase premiums, discounts
     and/or  other
    cost basis adjustments. We recognize interest income on mortgage
    loans on an accrual basis using the interest method, unless we
    determine the ultimate collection of contractual principal or
    interest payments in full is not reasonably assured. When the
    collection of principal or interest payments in full is not
    reasonably assured, the loan is placed on nonaccrual status as
    discussed in the  Allowance for Loan Losses and Reserve for
    Guaranty Losses  section of this note.

Allowance
    for Loan Losses and Reserve for Guaranty Losses   

The allowance for loan losses is a valuation allowance that
    reflects an estimate of incurred credit losses related to our
    recorded investment in HFI loans. The reserve for guaranty
    losses is a liability account in the consolidated balance sheets
    that reflects an estimate of incurred credit losses related to
    our guaranty to each MBS trust that we will supplement mortgage
    loan collections as required to permit timely payment of
    principal and interest due on the related Fannie Mae MBS. We
    recognize incurred losses by recording a charge to the provision
    for credit losses in the consolidated statements of income.

Credit losses related to groups of similar single-family and
    multifamily loans held for investment that are not individually
    impaired, or those that are collateral for Fannie Mae MBS, are
    recognized when (i) available information as of each
    balance sheet date indicates that it is probable a loss has
    occurred and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably
    estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 5,  Accounting
    for Contingencies  ( SFAS 5 ). Single-family
    and multifamily loans that we evaluate for individual impairment
    are measured in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 114.
    We record charge-offs as a reduction to the allowance for loan
    losses and reserve for guaranty losses when losses are confirmed
    through the receipt of assets such as cash or the underlying
    collateral in full satisfaction of our recorded investment in
    the mortgage loan.

Single-family
    Loans  

We aggregate single-family loans (except for those that are
    deemed to be individually impaired pursuant to
    SFAS 114) based on similar risk characteristics for
    purposes of estimating incurred credit losses. Those
    characteristics include but are not limited to:
    (i) origination year; (ii) loan product type; and
     (iii) loan-to-value 
    ( LTV ) ratio. By aggregating loans, there is not a
    single, distinct event that would result in an individual loan
    or pool of loans being impaired. Accordingly, to determine an
    estimate of incurred credit losses, we base our allowance and
    reserve methodology on the accumulation of a series of
    historical events and trends, such as loan severity, default
    rates and recoveries from mortgage insurance contracts that are
    contractually attached to a loan or other credit enhancements
    that were entered into contemporaneous with and in contemplation
    of a guaranty or loan purchase transaction. Our allowance
    calculation also incorporates a loss confirmation period (the
    anticipated time lag between a credit loss event and the
    confirmation of the credit loss resulting from that event) to
    ensure our allowance estimate captures credit losses that have
    been incurred as of the balance sheet date but have not been
    confirmed. In addition, management performs a review of the
    observable data used in its estimate to ensure it is
    representative of current economic conditions and other events
    existing at the balance sheet date. We consider certain factors
    when determining whether adjustments to the observable data used
    in our allowance methodology are necessary. These factors
    include, but are not limited to, levels of and trends in
    delinquencies; levels of and trends in charge-offs and
    recoveries; and terms of loans.

F-34

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

For both single-family and multifamily loans, the primary
    components of observable data used to support our allowance and
    reserve methodology include historical severity (the amount of
    charge-off loss recognized by us upon full satisfaction of a
    loan at foreclosure or upon receipt of cash in a pre-foreclosure
    sale) and historical loan default experience. The excess of our
    recorded investment in a loan, including recorded accrued
    interest, over the fair value of the assets received in full
    satisfaction of the loan is treated as a charge-off loss that is
    deducted from the allowance for loan losses or reserve for
    guaranty losses. Any excess of the fair value of the assets
    received in full satisfaction over our recorded investment in a
    loan at charge-off is applied first to recover any forgone, yet
    contractually past due, interest, then to  Foreclosed
    property expense (income)  in the consolidated statements
    of income. We also apply estimated proceeds from primary
    mortgage insurance that is contractually attached to a loan and
    other credit enhancements entered into contemporaneous with and
    in contemplation of a guaranty or loan purchase transaction as a
    recovery of our recorded investment in a charged-off loan, up to
    the amount of loss recognized as a charge-off. Proceeds from
    credit enhancements in excess of our recorded investment in
    charged-off loans are recorded in  Foreclosed property
    expense (income)  in the consolidated statements of income
    when received.

Multifamily
    Loans  

Multifamily loans are identified for evaluation for impairment
    through a credit risk classification process and are
    individually assigned a risk rating. Based on this evaluation,
    we determine whether or not a loan is individually impaired
    pursuant to SFAS 114. If we deem a multifamily loan to be
    individually impaired, we measure impairment on that loan based
    on the fair value of the underlying collateral as such loans are
    considered to be collateral-dependent. If we determine that an
    individual loan that was specifically evaluated for impairment
    is not individually impaired, we include the loan as part of a
    pool of loans with similar characteristics evaluated
    collectively for impairment pursuant to SFAS 5.

We stratify loans into different risk rating categories based on
    the credit risk inherent in each individual loan. Credit risk is
    categorized based on relevant observable data about a
    borrower s ability to pay, including reviews of current
    borrower financial information, operating statements on the
    underlying collateral, historical payment experience, collateral
    values when appropriate, and other related credit documentation.
    Multifamily loans that are categorized into pools based on their
    relative credit risk ratings are assigned certain default and
    severity factors representative of the credit risk inherent in
    each risk category. These factors are applied against our
    recorded investment in the loans, including recorded accrued
    interest associated with such loans, to determine an appropriate
    allowance. As part of our allowance process for multifamily
    loans, we also consider other factors based on observable data
    such as historical charge-off experience, loan size and trends
    in delinquency.

Nonaccrual
    Loans  

We discontinue accruing interest on single-family loans when it
    is probable that we will not collect principal or interest on a
    loan, which we have determined to be the earlier of either:
    (i) payment of principal and interest becomes three months
    or more past due according to the loan s contractual terms
    or (ii) in management s opinion, collectibility of
    principal or interest is not reasonably assured. We place a
    multifamily loan on nonaccrual status using the same criteria;
    however, multifamily loans are assessed on an individual loan
    basis.

When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, interest previously
    accrued but not collected becomes part of our recorded
    investment in the loan, and is collectively reviewed for
    impairment. We return a loan to accrual status when we determine
    that the collectibility of principal and interest is reasonably
    assured.

Restructured
    Loans  

A modification to the contractual terms of a loan that results
    in a concession to a borrower experiencing financial
    difficulties is considered a TDR. A concession, due to credit
    deterioration, has been granted to a borrower when we determine
    that the effective yield based on the restructured loan term is
    less than the effective yield prior to the modification pursuant
    to
     EITF 02-4, 
     Determining Whether a Debtor s Modification  

F-35

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

or Exchange of Debt Instruments is within the Scope of FASB
    Statement No. 15.  Impairment of a loan restructured in
    a TDR is based on the excess of the recorded investment in the
    loan over the present value of the expected future cash inflows
    discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate.

Loans modified that result in terms at least as favorable to us
    or those that are modified not as a result of a borrower
    experiencing financial difficulties are further evaluated to
    determine whether the modification is considered more than minor
    pursuant to SFAS 91 and
     EITF 01-7, 
     Creditor s Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of
    Debt Instruments.  If the modification is considered more
    than minor, we treat the modification as an extinguishment of
    the previously recorded loan and recognition of a new loan and
    any unamortized basis adjustments on the previously recorded
    loan are recognized in the consolidated statements of income.
    Modifications that are not more than minor are accounted for as
    a continuation of the previously recorded loan.

Individually
    Impaired Loans  

A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current
    information, it is probable that we will not receive all amounts
    due, including interest, in accordance with the contractual
    terms of the loan agreement. When making our assessment as to
    whether a loan is impaired, we also take into account
    insignificant delays in payment. We consider loans with payment
    delays in excess of three consecutive months as more than
    insignificant and therefore impaired.

Individually impaired loans include those restructured in a TDR
    and certain multifamily loans. Our measurement of impairment on
    an individually impaired loan follows the method that is most
    consistent with our expectations of recovery of our recorded
    investment in the loan. When a loan has been restructured, we
    measure impairment using a discounted cash flow analysis using
    the loan s original effective interest rate, as our
    expectation is that the loan will continue to perform under the
    restructured terms. When it is determined that the only source
    to recover our recorded investment in an individually impaired
    loan is through probable foreclosure of the underlying
    collateral, we measure impairment based on the fair value of the
    collateral, reduced by estimated disposal costs. Impairment
    recognized on individually impaired loans is part of our
    allowance for loan losses and reserve for guaranty losses.

Loans
    Purchased or Eligible to be Purchased from Trusts  

For securitization trusts that include a Fannie Mae guaranty, we
    have the option to purchase from those trusts, at par plus
    accrued interest, loans that have been past due for three or
    more consecutive months. We record loans that we acquire from
    trusts to which we were not the transferor at the time of
    securitization at their acquisition price, or par value plus
    interest advanced on behalf of the borrower by the servicer
    while the loan was nonperforming in the trust and a portion of
    the  Reserve for guaranty losses  is reclassified to
    the  Allowance for loan losses  in the consolidated
    balance sheets.

For trusts where we were the transferror prior to April 2,
    2003, we recorded loans eligible to be purchased from trusts at
    their acquisition price, or par value plus accrued interest and
    a portion of the  Reserve for guaranty losses  was
    reclassified to the  Allowance for loan losses  in the
    consolidated balance sheets. On or after April 2, 2003,
    when a loan becomes three or more months past due we record the
    loan in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value and a
    corresponding repurchase liability to the trust, pursuant to
     EITF 02-9, 
     Accounting for Changes That Result in a Transferor Regaining
    Control of Financial Assets Sold
      ( EITF 02-9 ). 

Acquired
    Property, Net   

Acquired property, net  includes foreclosed property
    received in full satisfaction of a loan. We recognize foreclosed
    property upon the earlier of the loan foreclosure event or when
    we take physical possession of the property (i.e., through a
    deed in lieu of foreclosure transaction). Foreclosed property is
    initially measured at its fair value less estimated costs to
    sell. We treat any excess of our recorded investment in the loan
    over the fair value less estimated costs to sell the property as
    a charge-off to the  Allowance for loan losses.  Any
    excess of

F-36

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

the fair value less estimated costs to sell the property over
    our recorded investment in the loan is recognized first to
    recover any forgone, contractually due interest, then to
     Foreclosed property expense (income)  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

Properties that we do not intend to sell or that are not ready
    for immediate sale in their current condition are classified
    separately as held for use, and are depreciated and recorded in
     Other assets  in the consolidated balance sheets. We
    report foreclosed properties that we intend to sell, we are
    actively marketing and are available for immediate sale in their
    current condition as held for sale. These properties are
    reported at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value
    less estimated selling costs, and are not depreciated. The fair
    value of our foreclosed properties is determined by third party
    appraisals, when available. When third party appraisals are not
    available, we estimate fair value based on factors such as
    prices for similar properties in similar geographical areas
     and/or 
    assessment through observation of such properties. We recognize
    a loss for any subsequent write-down of the property to its fair
    value less estimated costs to sell through a valuation allowance
    with an offsetting charge to  Foreclosed property expense
    (income)  in the consolidated statements of income. A
    recovery is recognized for any subsequent increase in fair value
    less estimated costs to sell up to the cumulative loss
    previously recognized through the valuation allowance. Gains or
    losses on sales of foreclosed property are recognized through
     Foreclosed property expense (income)  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

Guaranty
    Accounting   

Our primary guaranty transactions result from mortgage loan
    securitizations in which we issue Fannie Mae MBS. The majority
    of our Fannie Mae MBS issuances fall within two broad
    categories: (i) lender swap transactions, where a lender
    delivers mortgage loans to us to deposit into a trust in
    exchange for our guaranteed Fannie Mae MBS backed by those
    mortgage loans and (ii) portfolio securitizations, where we
    securitize loans that were previously included in the
    consolidated balance sheets, and create guaranteed Fannie Mae
    MBS backed by those loans. As guarantor, we guarantee to each
    MBS trust that we will supplement mortgage loan collections as
    required to permit timely payments of principal and interest due
    on the related Fannie Mae MBS. This obligation represents an
    obligation to stand ready to perform over the term of the
    guaranty. Therefore, our guaranty exposes us to credit losses on
    the loans underlying Fannie Mae MBS.

Guaranties
    Issued in Connection with Lender Swap Transactions  

The majority of our guaranty obligations arise from lender swap
    transactions. In a lender swap transaction, we receive a
    guaranty fee for our unconditional guaranty to the Fannie Mae
    MBS trust. We negotiate a contractual guaranty fee with the
    lender and collect the fee on a monthly basis based on the
    contractual rate multiplied by the unpaid principal balance of
    loans underlying a Fannie Mae MBS issuance. The guaranty fee we
    receive varies depending on factors such as the risk profile of
    the securitized loans and the level of credit risk we assume. In
    lieu of charging a higher guaranty fee for loans with greater
    credit risk, we may require that the lender pay an upfront fee
    to compensate us for assuming the additional credit risk. We
    refer to this payment as a risk-based pricing adjustment.
    Risk-based pricing adjustments do not affect the pass-through
    coupon remitted to Fannie Mae MBS certificate holders. In
    addition, we may charge a lower guaranty fee if the lender
    assumes a portion of the credit risk through recourse or other
    risk-sharing arrangements. We refer to these arrangements as
    credit enhancements. We also adjust the monthly guaranty fee so
    that the pass-through coupon rates on Fannie Mae MBS are in more
    easily tradable increments of a whole or half percent by making
    an upfront payment to the lender ( buy-up ) or
    receiving an upfront payment from the lender
    ( buy-down ).

FIN 45 requires a guarantor, at inception of a guaranty to
    an unconsolidated entity, to recognize a non-contingent
    liability for the fair value of its obligation to stand ready to
    perform over the term of the guaranty in the event that
    specified triggering events or conditions occur. We record this
    amount on the consolidated balance sheets as a component of
     Guaranty obligations.  We also record a guaranty
    asset that represents the present value of cash flows expected
    to be received as compensation over the life of the guaranty. If
    the fair value of the guaranty obligation is less than the
    present value of the consideration we expect to receive,

F-37

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

including the fair value of the guaranty asset and any upfront
    assets exchanged, we defer the excess as deferred profit, which
    is recorded as an additional component of  Guaranty
    obligations.  If the fair value of the guaranty obligation
    exceeds the compensation received, we recognize a loss in
     Guaranty fee income  in the consolidated statements
    of income at inception of the guaranty fee contract. We
    recognize a liability for estimable and probable losses for the
    credit risk we assume on loans underlying Fannie Mae MBS based
    on management s estimate of probable losses incurred on
    those loans at each balance sheet date. We record this
    contingent liability in the consolidated balance sheets as
     Reserve for guaranty losses. 

As we collect monthly guaranty fees, we reduce guaranty assets
    to reflect cash payments received and recognize imputed interest
    income on guaranty assets as a component of  Guaranty fee
    income  under the prospective interest method pursuant to
    EITF 99-20. We reduce the corresponding guaranty obligation,
    including the deferred profit, in proportion to the reduction in
    guaranty assets and recognize this reduction in the consolidated
    statements of income as an additional component of
     Guaranty fee income.  We assess guaranty assets for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment based on changes in our estimate of the cash flows to
    be received. When we determine a guaranty asset is
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired, we write down the cost basis of the guaranty asset to
    its fair value and include the amount of the write-down in
     Guaranty fee income  in the consolidated statements
    of income. Any
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment recorded on guaranty assets results in a
    proportionate reduction in the corresponding guaranty
    obligations, including the deferred profit.

We account for buy-ups in the same manner as AFS securities.
    Accordingly, we record buy-ups in the consolidated balance
    sheets at fair value in  Other assets,  with any
    changes in fair value recorded in AOCI, net of tax. We assess
    buy-ups for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment based on the provisions of EITF 99-20 and
    SFAS 115. When we determine a
     buy-up  is
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired, we write down the cost basis of the
     buy-up  to
    its fair value and include the amount of the write-down in
     Guaranty fee income  in the consolidated statements
    of income. Upfront cash receipts for buy-downs and risk-based
    price adjustments on and after January 1, 2003 are a
    component of the compensation received for issuing the guaranty
    and are recorded upon issuing a guaranty as an additional
    component of  Guaranty obligations,  for contracts
    with deferred profit, or a reduction of the loss recorded as a
    component of  Guaranty fee income,  for contracts
    where the compensation received is less than the guaranty
    obligation.

The fair value of the guaranty asset at inception is based on
    the present value of expected cash flows using management s
    best estimates of certain key assumptions, which include
    prepayment speeds, forward yield curves, and discount rates
    commensurate with the risks involved. These cash flows are
    projected using proprietary prepayment, interest rate, and
    credit risk models. Because the guaranty assets are like an
    interest-only income stream, the projected cash flows from our
    guaranty assets are discounted using interest spreads from a
    representative sample of interest-only trust securities. We then
    adjust the discounted cash flows for the less liquid nature of
    the guaranty asset as compared to the interest-only trust
    securities. The fair value of the obligation to stand ready to
    perform over the term of the guaranty represents
    management s estimate of the amount that we would be
    required to pay a third-party of similar credit standing to
    assume our obligation. This amount is based on the present value
    of expected cash flows using management s best estimates of
    certain key assumptions, which include default and severity
    rates and a market rate of return.

The initial recognition and measurement provisions of
    FIN 45 apply on a prospective basis to our guaranties
    issued or modified after December 31, 2002. For lender swap
    transactions entered into prior to the effective date of
    FIN 45, we recognized guaranty fees in the consolidated
    statements of income as  Guaranty fee income  on an
    accrual basis over the term of the unconsolidated Fannie Mae
    MBS. We recognized a contingent liability under SFAS 5
    based on management s estimate of probable losses incurred
    on those loans at each balance sheet date. Upfront cash payments
    received in the form of risk-based pricing adjustments or
    buy-downs were deferred as a component of  Other
    liabilities  in the consolidated balance sheets and
    amortized into  Guaranty fee income  in the
    consolidated statements of income over the life of the guaranty

F-38

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

using the interest method prescribed in SFAS 91. The
    accounting for buy-ups was not changed when FIN 45 became
    effective.

Guaranties
    Issued in Connection with Portfolio Securitizations  

In addition to retained interests in the form of Fannie Mae MBS,
    REMICs, and master servicing assets, we retain an interest in
    securitized loans in a portfolio securitization, which
    represents our right to future cash flows associated primarily
    with providing our guaranty. We account for the retained
    guaranty interest in a portfolio securitization in the same
    manner as AFS securities and record it in the consolidated
    balance sheets as a component of  Guaranty assets. 
    The fair value of the guaranty asset is determined in the same
    manner as the fair value of the guaranty asset in a lender swap
    transaction. We assume a recourse obligation in connection with
    our guaranty of the timely payment of principal and interest to
    the MBS trust that we measure and record in the consolidated
    balance sheets under  Guaranty obligations  based on
    the fair value of the recourse obligation at inception. Any
    difference between the guaranty asset and the guaranty
    obligation in a portfolio securitization is recognized as a
    component of the gain or loss on the sale of mortgage-related
    assets and is recorded as  Investment losses, net  in
    the consolidated statements of income.

We evaluate the component of the  Guaranty assets 
    that represents the retained interest in securitized loans for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment under EITF 99-20. We amortize and account for
    the guaranty obligations subsequent to the initial recognition
    in the same manner that we account for the guaranty obligations
    that arise under lender swap transactions and record a
     Reserve for guaranty losses  for estimable and
    probable losses incurred on the underlying loans at each balance
    sheet date.

Fannie
    Mae MBS included in  Investments in
    securities   

When we own Fannie Mae MBS, we do not derecognize any components
    of the  Guaranty assets,   Guaranty
    obligations,   Reserve for guaranty losses,  or
    any other outstanding recorded amounts associated with the
    guaranty transaction because our contractual obligation to the
    unconsolidated MBS trust remains in force until the trust is
    liquidated, unless the trust is consolidated. We value Fannie
    Mae MBS based on their legal terms, which includes the Fannie
    Mae guaranty to the MBS trust, and continue to reflect the
    unamortized obligation to stand ready to perform over the term
    of our guaranty and any incurred credit losses in our
     Guaranty obligations  and  Reserve for guaranty
    losses,  respectively. We disclose the aggregate amount of
    Fannie Mae MBS held as  Investments in securities  in
    the consolidated balance sheets as well as the amount of our
     Reserve for guaranty losses  and  Guaranty
    obligations  that relates to Fannie Mae MBS held as
     Investments in securities. 

Upon subsequent sale of a Fannie Mae MBS, we continue to account
    for any outstanding recorded amounts associated with the
    guaranty transaction on the same basis of accounting as prior to
    the sale of Fannie Mae MBS as no new assets were retained and no
    new liabilities have been assumed upon the subsequent sale.

Amortization
    of Cost Basis and Guaranty Price Adjustments   

Cost
    Basis Adjustments  

We account for cost basis adjustments, including premiums and
    discounts on mortgage loans and securities, in accordance with
    SFAS 91 ,  which generally requires deferred fees and
    costs to be recognized as an adjustment to yield using the
    interest method over the contractual or estimated life of the
    loan or security. We amortize these cost basis adjustments into
    interest income for debt securities and loans held for
    investment. We do not amortize cost basis adjustments for loans
    that we classify as HFS but include them in the calculation of
    gain or loss on the sale of those loans.

We hold a large number of similar mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities backed by a large number of similar
    mortgage loans for which prepayments are probable and for which
    we can reasonably estimate the timing of such prepayments. We
    use prepayment estimates in determining periodic amortization of
    cost basis adjustments on substantially all mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities in our portfolio under the interest
    method using a constant effective yield. We include this
    amortization in  Interest income  in each

F-39

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

period. For the purpose of amortizing cost basis adjustments, we
    aggregate similar mortgage loans or mortgage-related securities
    with similar prepayment characteristics. We consider Fannie Mae
    MBS to be aggregations of similar loans for the purpose of
    estimating prepayments. We aggregate individual mortgage loans
    based upon coupon rate, product type and origination year for
    the purpose of estimating prepayments. For each reporting
    period, we recalculate the constant effective yield to reflect
    the actual payments and prepayments we have received to date and
    our new estimate of future prepayments. We adjust the net
    investment of our mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities
    to the amount at which they would have been stated if the
    recalculated constant effective yield had been applied since
    their acquisition.

We use the contractual terms to determine amortization if
    prepayments are not probable, we cannot reasonably estimate
    prepayments, or we do not hold a large enough number of similar
    loans or there is not a large number of similar loans underlying
    a security. For these loans, we cease amortization of cost basis
    adjustments during periods in which interest income on the loan
    is not being recognized because the collection of the principal
    and interest payments are not reasonably assured (that is, when
    a loan is placed on  nonaccrual  status).

Deferred
    Guaranty Price Adjustments  

We applied the interest method using a constant effective yield
    to amortize all risk-based price adjustments and buy-downs in
    connection with our Fannie Mae MBS issued prior to
    January 1, 2003. We calculated the constant effective yield
    for deferred guaranty price adjustments based upon our estimate
    of the cash flows of the mortgage loans underlying the related
    Fannie Mae MBS, which includes an estimate of prepayments. For
    each reporting period, we recalculate the constant effective
    yield to reflect the actual payments and our new estimate of
    future prepayments. We adjust the carrying amount of deferred
    guaranty price adjustments to the amount at which they would
    have been stated if the recalculated constant effective yield
    had been applied since their inception.

For risk-based pricing adjustments and buy-downs that arose on
    Fannie Mae MBS issued after December 31, 2002, we record
    the cash received and increase  Guaranty obligations 
    by a similar amount.

Master
    Servicing   

Upon a transfer of loans to us, either in connection with a
    portfolio purchase or a lender swap transaction, we enter into
    an agreement with the lender, or its designee, to continue to
    perform the
     day-to-day 
    servicing of the mortgage loans, herein referred to as primary
    servicing. We assume an obligation to perform certain limited
    master servicing activities when these loans are securitized.
    These activities include assuming the ultimate obligation for
    the
     day-to-day 
    servicing in the event of default by the primary servicer and
    certain ongoing administrative functions associated with the
    securitization. As compensation for performing these master
    servicing activities, we receive the right to the interest
    earned on cash flows from the date of remittance by the servicer
    to us until the date of distribution of such cash flows to MBS
    certificate holders.

We record an MSA as a component of  Other assets  when
    the present value of the estimated compensation for master
    servicing activities exceeds adequate compensation for such
    servicing activities. Conversely, we record a master servicing
    liability ( MSL ) as a component of  Other
    liabilities  when the present value of the estimated
    compensation for master servicing activities is less than
    adequate compensation. Adequate compensation is the amount of
    compensation that would be required by a substitute master
    servicer should one be required and is determined based on
    market information for such services.

An MSA is carried at LOCOM and amortized in proportion to net
    servicing income for each period. We record impairment of the
    MSA through a valuation allowance. When we determine an MSA is
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired, we write down the cost basis of the MSA to its fair
    value. We individually assess our MSA for impairment by
    reviewing changes in historical interest rates and the impact of
    those changes on the historical fair values of the MSA. We then
    determine our expectation of the likelihood of a range of
    interest rate changes over an appropriate recovery period using
    historical interest rate movements. We record an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment when we do not expect to recover the valuation
    allowance based on our expectation of the interest rate changes
    and their impact on the fair value of the MSA during the
    recovery

F-40

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

period. Amortization and impairment of the MSA are recorded as
    components of  Fee and other income  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

An MSL is carried at amortized cost and amortized in proportion
    to net servicing loss for each period. The carrying amount of
    the MSL is increased to fair value when the fair value exceeds
    the carrying amount. Amortization and valuation adjustments of
    the MSL are recorded as components of  Fee and other
    income  in the consolidated statement of income.

When we receive an MSA in connection with a lender swap
    transaction, we record a corresponding amount of deferred profit
    as a component of  Other liabilities  in the
    consolidated balance sheets. This deferred profit is amortized
    in proportion to the amortization of the MSA. We also record a
    reduction or recovery of the recorded deferred profit amount
    based on any changes to the valuation allowance associated with
    the MSA. Changes in the deferred profit amount, including
    amortization and reductions or recoveries to the valuation
    allowance, are recorded as a component of  Fee and other
    income  in the consolidated statements of income. When we
    incur an MSL in connection with a lender swap transaction, we
    record a corresponding loss as  Fee and other income 
    in the consolidated statements of income.

MSA and MSL recorded in connection with portfolio
    securitizations are recorded in the same manner as retained
    interests and liabilities incurred in a securitization,
    respectively. Accordingly, these amounts are a component of the
    calculation of gain or loss on the sale of assets.

The fair values of the MSA and MSL are based on the present
    value of expected cash flows using management s best
    estimates of certain key assumptions, which include prepayment
    speeds, forward yield curves, adequate compensation, and
    discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. Changes in
    anticipated prepayment speeds, in particular, result in
    fluctuations in the estimated fair values of the MSA and MSL. If
    actual prepayment experience differs from the anticipated rates
    used in our model, this difference may result in a material
    change in the MSA and MSL fair values.

Other
    Investments   

Unconsolidated investments in limited partnerships are primarily
    accounted for under the equity method of accounting pursuant to
     SOP 78-9. 
    These investments include our LIHTC and other partnership
    investments. Under the equity method, our investment is
    increased (decreased) for our share of the investee s net
    income (loss) reflected in  Income from partnership
    investments  in the consolidated statements of income, as
    well as increased for contributions made and reduced by
    distributions received.

For other unconsolidated investments, we apply the equity or
    cost method of accounting. Investments in entities where our
    ownership is between 20% and 50%, or which provide us the
    ability to exercise significant influence over the entity s
    operations and management functions, are accounted for using the
    equity method. Investments in entities where our ownership is
    less than 20% and we have no ability to exercise significant
    influence over an entity s operations are accounted for
    using the cost method. These investments are included as
     Other assets  in the consolidated balance sheets.

We periodically review our investments to determine if a loss in
    value that is
     other-than-temporary 
    has occurred. In these reviews, we consider all available
    information, including the recoverability of our investment, the
    earnings and near-term prospects of the entity, factors related
    to the industry, financial and operating conditions of the
    entity and our ability, if any, to influence the management of
    the entity.

Internally
    Developed Software   

We incur costs to develop software for internal use. Certain
    direct development costs and software enhancements associated
    with internal-use software are capitalized, including external
    direct costs of materials and services, and internal labor costs
    directly devoted to these software projects under Statement of
    Position 98-1,  Accounting for Costs of Computer Software
    Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.  Costs incurred
    during the preliminary project stage, as well as maintenance and
    training costs, are expensed as incurred. Such capitalized costs
    were $40 million, $85 million and $49 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003

F-41

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

and 2002, respectively. We recognize an impairment charge of
    these capitalized costs when, during the development stage of
    the project, we determine that the project is no longer probable
    of completion. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and
    2002, we recognized impairment charges of $159 million and
    $3 million, respectively. No impairment charge was deemed
    necessary for 2003. Capitalized costs are included as
     Other assets  in the consolidated balance sheets.

Commitments
    to Purchase and Sell Mortgage Loans and Securities   

We enter into commitments to purchase and sell mortgage-related
    securities and to purchase single-family and multifamily
    mortgage loans. Commitments to purchase or sell some
    mortgage-related securities and to purchase single-family
    mortgage loans are derivatives under SFAS 133, as amended
    and interpreted. Our commitments to purchase multifamily loans
    are not derivatives under SFAS 133 because they do not
    provide for net settlement.

For those commitments that we account for as derivatives, we
    report them in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value in
     Derivative assets at fair value  or  Derivative
    liabilities at fair value  and include changes in their
    fair value in  Derivatives fair value gains (losses),
    net  in the consolidated statements of income. When these
    commitments settle, we include their fair value on the
    settlement date in the cost basis of the security or loan that
    we purchase.

Regular-way securities trades provide for delivery of securities
    within the time generally established by regulations or
    conventions in the market in which the trade occurs and are
    exempt from SFAS 133. Commitments to purchase or sell
    To-Be-Announced ( TBA ) eligible Fannie Mae MBS that
    settle on the earliest regularly-scheduled settlement date are
    regular-way securities trades; therefore, we did not account for
    them as derivatives prior to July 1, 2003. Commitments to
    purchase securities that have not yet been issued, such as
    REMICs, are regular-way securities trades if their settlement
    date is the date the securities are issued. Each REMIC
    transaction is individually negotiated; therefore, the period
    between trade date and issuance date is the shortest period
    possible for these commitments and they are regular-way
    securities trades. On July 1, 2003, SFAS 149 amended
    the regular-way securities trade exception for commitments for
    securities that have not yet been issued and TBA-eligible
    mortgage-related securities. That amendment required companies
    to provide documentation that they expected commitments to
    physically settle. We did not provide such documentation;
    therefore, beginning July 1, 2003, we account for all
    commitments for securities not yet issued or TBA securities as
    derivatives unless such securities are recorded on the trade
    date.

Commitments to purchase securities that we do not account for as
    derivatives, such as those that qualified as regular-way
    securities trades, are accounted for as forward contracts to
    purchase securities under the guidance of EITF 96-11. These
    commitments are designated as AFS or trading at inception and
    accounted for in a manner consistent with SFAS 115 for that
    category of securities. For commitments to sell mortgage-related
    securities in trading activities that we do not account for as
    derivatives, we account for them at fair value and include them
    in  Other assets  or  Other Liabilities  in
    the consolidated balance sheets with unrealized gains and losses
    included in  Investment losses, net  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

Beginning January 1, 2002, we applied trade date accounting
    to commitments to purchase or sell existing securities when
    these commitments settle within the period of time that is
    customary in the market in which those trades take place.

F-42

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the accounting standards that
    apply to our mortgage loan and securities commitments through
    December 31, 2004.

Derivative
    Instruments   

We account for our derivatives pursuant to SFAS 133, as
    amended and interpreted, and recognize all derivatives as either
    assets or liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets at
    their fair value on a trade date basis. Derivatives in a gain
    position are reported in  Derivative assets at fair
    value  and derivatives in a loss position are recorded in
     Derivative liabilities at fair value  in the
    consolidated balance sheets. We do not apply hedge accounting
    pursuant to SFAS 133; therefore, all fair value gains and
    losses on derivatives as well as interest accruals are recorded
    in  Derivatives fair value gains (losses), net  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

We offset the carrying amounts of derivatives in gain positions
    and loss positions with the same counterparty in accordance with
    FIN 39. We offset these amounts because the derivative
    contracts have determinable amounts, we have the legal right to
    offset amounts with each counterparty, that right is enforceable
    by law, and we intend to offset the amounts to settle the
    contracts.

Fair value is determined using quoted market prices in active
    markets, when available. If quoted market prices are not
    available for particular derivatives, we use quoted market
    prices for similar derivatives that we adjust for directly
    observable or corroborated (i.e., information purchased from
    third-party service providers) market information. In the
    absence of observable or corroborated market data, we use
    internally developed estimates, incorporating market-based
    assumptions wherever such information is available. For
    derivatives, we use a mid price when there is spread between a
    bid and ask price.

We evaluate financial instruments that we purchase or issue and
    other financial and non-financial contracts for embedded
    derivatives. To identify embedded derivatives that we must
    account for separately, we determine if: (i) the economic
    characteristics of the embedded derivative are not clearly and
    closely related to the economic characteristics of the financial
    instrument or other contract; (ii) the financial instrument
    or other contract (i.e., the hybrid contract) itself is not
    already measured at fair value with changes in fair value
    included in earnings; and (iii) whether a separate
    instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would
    meet the definition of a derivative. If the embedded derivative
    meets all three of these conditions, we separate it from the
    financial instrument or other contracts and carry it at fair
    value with changes in fair value included in the consolidated
    statements of income.

Collateral   

We enter into various transactions where we pledge and accept
    collateral, the most common of which are our derivative
    transactions. Required collateral levels vary depending on the
    credit risk rating and type of counterparty. We also pledge and
    receive collateral under our repurchase and reverse repurchase
    agreements. The fair value of the collateral received from our
    counterparties is monitored, and we may require additional
    collateral from those counterparties, as deemed appropriate.
    Collateral received under early funding agreements with lenders
    must meet our standard underwriting guidelines for the purchase
    or guarantee of mortgage loans.

Cash
    Collateral  

To the extent that we pledge cash collateral to a counterparty,
    we remove it from the consolidated balance sheets. We had not
    pledged any cash collateral as of December 31, 2004 or
    2003. Cash collateral accepted from a counterparty that we have
    the right to use is recorded as  Cash and cash
    equivalents  in the

F-43

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

consolidated balance sheets. Cash collateral accepted from a
    counterparty that we do not have the right to use is restricted
    cash and is included as  Restricted cash  in the
    consolidated balance sheets. We accepted cash collateral of
    $2.7 billion and $3.4 billion as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003, respectively, of which $601 million and
    $1.1 billion, respectively, was restricted.

Non-Cash
    Collateral  

Securities pledged to counterparties are included as either
     Investments in securities  or  Cash and cash
    equivalents  in the consolidated balance sheets. As of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, we pledged trading securities
    of $187 million and $201 million, respectively and AFS
    securities of $1.5 billion and $4.6 billion,
    respectively, which the counterparty does not have the right to
    sell or repledge. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, we
    pledged $242 million and $487 million, respectively, of cash
    equivalents, and as of December 31, 2003, we pledged $265
    million of AFS securities, which the counterparty had the right
    to sell or repledge.

The fair value of non-cash collateral accepted that we were
    permitted to sell or repledge was $3.5 billion and
    $3.1 billion as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively, of which none was sold or repledged. The fair
    value of collateral accepted that we were not permitted to sell
    or repledge was $393 million and $42 million as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Our liability to third party holders of Fannie Mae MBS that
    arises as the result of a consolidation of a securitization
    trust is fully collateralized by the underlying loans
     and/or 
    mortgage-related securities. When securities sold under
    agreements to repurchase meet all of the conditions of a secured
    financing, the collateral of the transferred securities are
    reported at the amounts at which the securities will be
    reacquired including accrued interest.

Debt   

Our outstanding debt is classified as either short-term or
    long-term based on the initial contractual maturity. Deferred
    items, including premiums, discounts and other deferred price
    adjustments are reported as basis adjustments to
     Short-term debt  or  Long-term debt  in the
    consolidated balance sheets. The carrying amount, accrued
    interest and basis adjustments of debt denominated in a foreign
    currency are re-measured into U.S. dollars using foreign
    exchange spot rates at the balance sheet date and any associated
    gains or losses are reported in  Fee and other income 
    in the consolidated statements of income.

The classification of interest expense as either short-term or
    long-term is based on the contractual maturity of the related
    debt. Premiums, discounts and other deferred price adjustments
    are amortized and reported through interest expense using the
    effective interest method over the contractual term of the debt.
    Amortization of premiums, discounts and other deferred price
    adjustments begins at the time of debt issuance. Interest
    expense for debt denominated in a foreign currency is
    re-measured into U.S. dollars using the weighted average
    spot rate for the month since the interest expense is incurred
    over the reporting period. The difference in rates arising from
    the month-end spot exchange rate used to calculate the interest
    accruals and the weighted-average exchange rate used to record
    the interest expense is a foreign currency transaction gain or
    loss for the period and is included in  Short-term and
    long-term debt interest expense  in the consolidated
    statements of income.

Fees
    Received on the Structuring of Transactions   

We offer certain re-securitization services to customers in
    exchange for fees. Such services include, but are not limited
    to, the issuance, guarantee and administration of Fannie Mae
    REMICs, Stripped Mortgage-Backed Securities ( SMBS ),
    Grantor Trusts, and Mega Securities issued (collectively, the
     Structured Securities ). We receive a one-time
    conversion fee upon issuance of a Structured Security that
    varies based on the value of securities issued and the
    transaction structure. The conversion fee compensates us for all
    services we provide in connection with the Structured Security,
    including services provided at and prior to security issuance
    and over the life of the Structured Securities. Except for
    Structured Securities where the underlying collateral is whole
    loans or private-label securities, we generally do not receive a
    guaranty fee as compensation in

F-44

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

connection with the issuance of a Structured Security because
    the transferred mortgage-related securities have previously been
    guaranteed by us or another party.

We defer a portion of the fee received upon issuance of a
    Structured Security based on our estimate of the fair value of
    our future administration services in accordance with EITF
     No. 00-21, 
     Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.  The
    deferred revenue is amortized on a straight-line basis over the
    expected life of the Structured Security. The excess of the
    total fee over the fair value of the future services is
    recognized in the consolidated statements of income upon
    issuance of a Structured Security. However, when we acquire a
    portion of a Structured Security contemporaneous with our
    structuring of the transaction, we defer and amortize a portion
    of this upfront fee as an adjustment to the yield of the
    purchased security pursuant to SFAS 91. Fees received and
    costs incurred related to our structuring of securities are
    presented on a gross basis as  Fee and other income 
    in the consolidated statements of income.

Income
    Taxes   

We recognize deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the
    difference in the basis of assets and liabilities for financial
    accounting and tax purposes pursuant to SFAS No. 109,
     Accounting for Income Taxes  ( SFAS 109 ).
    Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted
    tax rates that are expected to be applicable to the taxable
    income or deductions in the period(s) the assets are realized or
    the liabilities are settled. Deferred income tax assets and
    liabilities are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws
    and rates on the date of enactment. We recognize investment and
    other tax credits through our effective tax rate calculation
    assuming that we will be able to realize the full benefit of the
    credits. SFAS 109 also requires that a deferred tax asset
    be reserved by an allowance if, based on the weight of available
    positive and negative evidence, it is more likely than not that
    some portion, or all, of the deferred tax asset will not be
    realized. For the periods presented in the accompanying
    consolidated financial statements, we determined that, based on
    available evidence, a valuation allowance against our tax assets
    was not necessary.

Our tax reserves are based on significant estimates and
    assumptions as to the relative filing positions and potential
    audit and litigation exposures related thereto. We establish
    these reserves based upon management s assessment of
    exposure associated with permanent tax differences, tax credits
    and interest expense applied to temporary differences when a
    potential loss is probable and reasonably estimated. We
    continually analyze tax reserves and record adjustments as
    events occur that warrant adjustment to the reserves.

Stock-Based
    Compensation   

Effective January 1, 2003, we adopted the expense
    recognition provisions of the fair value method of accounting
    for employee stock compensation pursuant to
    SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ). In accordance with
    the transitional guidance of SFAS No. 148,
     Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Transition and
    Disclosure, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123,  and
    SFAS 123, we elected to prospectively apply the fair value
    method of accounting for stock-based awards granted on or after
    January 1, 2003. For such awards, compensation expense is
    measured at fair value and recognized in  Salaries and
    employee benefits expense  in the consolidated statements
    of income over the required service period. Prior to adoption of
    SFAS 123, we applied the intrinsic value method of
    Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion
    No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
     ( APB 25 ) and did not recognize compensation
    expense on our stock-based compensation, except for options
    deemed to be variable awards and stock awards. We continue to
    account for stock-based compensation awarded prior to
    January 1, 2003 under APB 25, unless such awards were
    modified subsequent to that date.

Had compensation costs for our stock-based compensation plans
    been determined using the fair value method required by
    SFAS 123 for all periods presented, our net income
    available to common stockholders and earnings per share would
    have been reduced to the pro forma amounts displayed in the
    table below.

F-45

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The fair value of the options granted under our stock-based
    compensation plans are estimated on the date of the grant using
    a Black-Scholes model with the following weighted average
    assumptions displayed in the table below.

Pensions
    and Other Postretirement Benefits   

We provide pension and postretirement benefits and account for
    these benefit costs on an accrual basis. Pension and
    postretirement benefit amounts recognized in the consolidated
    financial statements are determined on an actuarial basis using
    several different assumptions. The two most significant
    assumptions used in the valuation are the discount rate and
    long-term rate of return on assets. In determining our net
    periodic benefit expense, we apply a discount rate in the
    actuarial valuation of our pension and postretirement benefit
    obligations. In determining the discount rate as of each balance
    sheet date, we consider the current yields on high-quality,
    corporate fixed-income debt instruments with maturities
    corresponding to the expected duration of our benefit
    obligations. Additionally, the net periodic benefit expense
    recognized in the consolidated financial statements for our
    qualified pension plan is impacted by the long-term rate of
    return on plan assets. We base our assumption of the long-term
    rate of return on the current investment portfolio mix, actual
    long-term historical return information and the estimated future
    long-term investment returns for each class of assets. We
    measure plan assets and obligations as of the date of the
    consolidated financial statements.

Earnings
    per Share   

Earnings per share ( EPS ) are presented for both
    basic EPS and diluted EPS. Basic EPS is computed by dividing net
    income available to common stockholders by the weighted average
    number of shares of common stock outstanding during the year.
    Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net income available to
    common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of
    common stock outstanding during the year, plus the dilutive
    effect of common stock equivalents such as convertible
    securities, stock options and other performance awards. These
    common stock equivalents are excluded from the calculation of
    diluted EPS when the effect of inclusion, assessed individually,
    would be anti-dilutive.

F-46

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other
    Comprehensive Income   

Other comprehensive income is the change in equity, net of tax,
    resulting from transactions recorded in the consolidated
    statements of income, plus certain transactions that are
    recorded directly to stockholders  equity. These other
    transactions include unrealized gains and losses on AFS
    securities and commitments accounted for under EITF 96-11
    whose underlying securities are classified as AFS, unrealized
    gains and losses on guaranty assets resulting from portfolio
    transactions and buy-ups resulting from lender swap
    transactions, deferred hedging gains and losses from cash flow
    hedges entered into prior to 2001 and changes in our minimum
    pension liability.

Fair
    Value Measurements   

We estimate fair value as the amount at which an asset could be
    bought or sold, or a liability could be incurred or settled, in
    a current transaction between willing parties (i.e., other than
    in a forced or liquidation sale). If a quoted market price is
    available, the fair value is the product of the number of
    trading units multiplied by that market price. If a quoted
    market price is not available, the estimate of fair value
    considers prices for similar assets or similar liabilities and
    the results of valuation techniques to the extent available in
    the circumstances. Valuation techniques incorporate assumptions
    that market participants would use in their estimates of values.

Financial
    Statement Reclassifications   

Certain amounts reflected in the consolidated financial
    statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002
    have been reclassified to conform to the presentation for the
    year ended December 31, 2004. In the consolidated
    statements of income, reclassifications include, but are not
    limited to, a separate caption for interest income on mortgage
    loans that was previously reported as mortgage portfolio
    interest income, as well as additional categories for other
    expenses previously classified as administrative expenses. In
    the consolidated balance sheets, reclassifications include, but
    are not limited to, the creation of a new caption for mortgage
    loans that were previously included in our mortgage portfolio,
    reclassification of debentures, notes and bonds into short-term
    and long-term debt categories and federal funds sold and
    securities purchased under agreements to resell, advances to
    lenders and deferred tax assets were reclassified from other
    assets.

New
    Accounting Pronouncements   

SOP 03-3, 
    Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a
    Transfer  

In December 2003, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee
    of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued
     SOP 03-3, 
     Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a
    Transfer
      ( SOP 03-3 ). 
     SOP 03-3 
    applies to acquired loans, debt securities and beneficial
    interests where there has been evidence of deterioration in
    credit quality since origination and for which it is probable at
    the purchase date that the investor will not be able to collect
    all contractually required payments receivable. It addresses the
    accounting for differences between the contractual cash flows of
    acquired loans and the cash flows expected to be collected from
    an investor s initial investment in loans acquired in a
    transfer if those differences are attributable, at least in
    part, to credit quality.

SOP 03-3 
    requires purchased loans, debt securities and beneficial
    interests within its scope to be initially recorded at fair
    value and prohibits the creation or carry over of a valuation
    allowance at the date of purchase. It limits the yield that may
    be accreted as interest income on such loans to the excess of an
    investor s estimate of undiscounted expected principal,
    interest and other cash flows from the loan over the
    investor s initial investment in the loan. The amount of
    yield to be accreted is not displayed in the consolidated
    balance sheets. Subsequent increases in estimated future cash
    flows to be collected are recognized prospectively in interest
    income through a yield adjustment over the remaining life of the
    loan. Decreases in estimated future cash flows to be collected
    are recognized as an impairment expense through a valuation
    allowance.
     SOP 03-3 
    applies prospectively to loans acquired in fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2004. Loans carried at fair
    value or mortgage loans held for sale are excluded from the
    scope of
     SOP 03-3. 
     SOP 03-3 
    will apply primarily

F-47

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

to delinquent loans that we purchase from MBS trusts in
    connection with our guaranty as well as to delinquent loans in
    MBS trusts or private-label trusts that we consolidate pursuant
    to FIN 46R. We are evaluating the effect of the adoption of
     SOP 03-3 
    to the consolidated financial statements.

SFAS 123R,
    Share-Based Payment and SAB No. 107  

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),
     Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123R ), which
    revises SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25 and its related
    implementation guidance. SFAS 123R eliminates the
    alternative of applying the intrinsic value measurement
    provisions of APB 25 to stock compensation awards issued to
    employees. Rather, SFAS 123R requires measurement of the
    cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of
    equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the
    award. With respect to options, SFAS 123R requires that
    they be measured at fair value using an option-pricing model
    that takes into account the options  unique characteristics
    and recognition of the cost as expense over the period the
    employee provides services to earn the award, which is generally
    the vesting period. Also, SFAS 123R requires that cash
    flows resulting from tax deductions in excess of the
    compensation cost recognized for those stock incentive awards,
    also referred to as excess tax benefits, to be classified as
    financing activities in the consolidated statements of cash
    flows.

This standard includes measurement requirements for employee
    stock options that are similar to those under the
     fair-value-based 
    method of SFAS 123; however, SFAS 123R requires
    initial and ongoing estimates of the amount of shares that will
    vest while SFAS 123 provided entities the option of
    assuming that all shares would vest and then recognize actual
    forfeitures as they occur and distinguishment of awards between
    equity and liabilities based on guidance in
    SFAS No. 150,  Accounting for Certain Financial
    Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and
    Equity. 

Additionally, SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 107,
     Share-Based Payment,  provides guidance related to the
    interaction between SFAS 123R and certain SEC rules and
    regulations, as well as the staff s views regarding the
    valuation of share-based payment arrangements.

SFAS 123R is effective for annual periods beginning after
    June 15, 2005 and requires use of the modified prospective
    application method to be applied to new awards, unvested awards
    and to awards modified, repurchased or cancelled after the
    effective date. We prospectively adopted the fair value expense
    recognition provisions of SFAS 123 effective
    January 1, 2003, using a model to estimate the fair value
    of the majority of our stock awards. We adopted SFAS 123R
    effective January 1, 2006 with no material impact to the
    consolidated financial statements.

SFAS 154,
    Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
     Accounting Changes and Error Corrections
     ( SFAS 154 ), which replaces APB Opinion
    No. 20,  Accounting Changes  ( APB 20 )
    and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting Accounting Changes in
    Interim Financial Statements,  and changes the requirements
    for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting
    principle. SFAS 154 applies to all voluntary changes in
    accounting principle and changes required by an accounting
    pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement
    does not include specific transition provisions.

APB 20 requires that the cumulative effect of most
    voluntary changes in accounting principles be included in net
    income in the period of adoption. The new statement requires
    retrospective application to prior periods  financial
    statements of a voluntary change in accounting principle, unless
    it is impracticable to determine either period-specific effects
    or the cumulative effect of the change. In addition,
    SFAS 154 requires that we account for a change in method of
    depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long-lived,
    non-financial assets as a change in accounting estimate that is
    affected by a change in accounting principle. APB 20
    previously required that we report such a change as a change in
    accounting principle.

F-48

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and
    corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 154 effective
    January 1, 2006 had no impact on the consolidated financial
    statements.

SFAS 155,
    Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,
     Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments
     ( SFAS 155 ), an amendment of SFAS 133
    and SFAS 140. This statement: (i) clarifies which
    interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject
    to SFAS 133; (ii) establishes a requirement to
    evaluate interests in securitized financial instruments that
    contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation;
    (iii) clarifies that concentration of credit risks in the
    form of subordination are not embedded derivatives; and
    (iv) permits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid
    financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that
    otherwise would require bifurcation.

SFAS 155 also amends Derivatives Implementation Group
    ( DIG ) Issue No. B39 relating to the application
    of call options that are exercisable only by a debtor. In
    November 2006, DIG Issue No. B40 was proposed by the FASB.
    The objective of the proposed guidance is to provide a narrow
    scope exception to certain provisions of SFAS 133 for
    securitized interests that contain only an embedded derivative
    that is tied to the prepayment risk of the underlying financial
    assets. Final guidance is expected to be issued in early 2007
    with an effective date that coincides with that of
    SFAS 155. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial
    instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of the first
    fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. We intend
    to adopt SFAS 155 effective January 1, 2007 and are
    evaluating the impact of its adoption on the consolidated
    financial statements.

SFAS 156,
    Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets  

In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156,
     Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, an amendment of
    FASB Statement No. 133 and 140
     ( SFAS 156 ). SFAS 156 modifies
    SFAS 140 by requiring that mortgage servicing rights
    ( MSRs ) be initially recognized at fair value and by
    providing the option to either (i) carry MSRs at fair value
    with changes in fair value recognized in earnings or
    (ii) continue recognizing periodic amortization expense and
    assess the MSRs for impairment as was originally required by
    SFAS 140. This option is available by class of servicing
    asset or liability. This statement also changes the calculation
    of the gain from the sale of financial assets by requiring that
    the fair value of servicing rights be considered part of the
    proceeds received in exchange for the sale of the assets.

SFAS 156 is effective for all separately recognized
    servicing assets and liabilities acquired or issued after the
    beginning of a fiscal year that begins after September 15,
    2006, with early adoption permitted. We intend to adopt
    SFAS 156 effective January 1, 2007. We do not believe
    the adoption of SFAS 156 will have a material effect on the
    consolidated financial statements.

FIN 48,
    Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  

In July 2006, the FASB issued FIN No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
     ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 supplements
    SFAS 109 by defining a threshold for recognizing tax
    benefits in the consolidated financial statements. FIN 48
    provides a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring tax
    benefits when a benefits  realization is uncertain. First,
    we must determine whether the benefit is to be recognized and
    then the amount to be recognized. Income tax benefits should be
    recognized when, based on the technical merits of a tax
    position, we believe that if upon examination, including
    resolution of any appeals or litigation process, it is more
    likely than not (a probability of greater than 50%) that the tax
    position would be sustained as filed. The benefit recognized for
    a tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not criterion is
    measured based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is more
    than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the
    taxing authority, taking into consideration the amounts and
    probabilities of the outcomes upon settlement.

F-49

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

FIN 48 is effective for consolidated financial statements
    beginning in the first quarter of 2007. The cumulative effect of
    applying the provisions of FIN 48 upon adoption will be
    reported as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings. We are
    evaluating the impact of its adoption on the consolidated
    financial statements.

SFAS 157,
    Fair Value Measurements  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurement  ( SFAS 157 ).
    SFAS 157 provides enhanced guidance for using fair value to
    measure assets and liabilities and requires companies to provide
    expanded information about assets and liabilities measured at
    fair value, including the effect of fair value measurements on
    earnings. This statement applies whenever other standards
    require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair
    value, but does not expand the use of fair value in any new
    circumstances.

Under SFAS 157, fair value refers to the price that would
    be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in
    an orderly transaction between market participants in the market
    in which the reporting entity transacts. This statement
    clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the
    assumptions market participants would use when pricing the asset
    or liability. In support of this principle, this standard
    establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the
    information used to develop those assumptions. The fair value
    hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active
    markets and the lowest priority to unobservable data (for
    example, a company s own data). Under this statement, fair
    value measurements would be separately disclosed by level within
    the fair value hierarchy.

SFAS 157 is effective for consolidated financial statements
    issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007,
    and interim periods within those fiscal years. We intend to
    adopt SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2008 and are
    evaluating the impact of its adoption on the consolidated
    financial statements.

SFAS 158,
    Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
    Postretirement Plans  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,
     Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)
     ( SFAS 158 ). SFAS 158 requires the
    recognition of a plan s over-funded or under-funded status
    as an asset or liability and an adjustment to AOCI.
    Additionally, it requires determination of benefit obligations
    and the fair values of a plan s assets at a company s
    year-end and recognition of actuarial gains and losses, and
    prior service costs and credits, as a component of AOCI. For
    employers with publicly traded securities, SFAS 158 is
    effective as of the end of the fiscal year ending after
    December 15, 2006. We intend to adopt SFAS 158
    effective December 31, 2006 and are evaluating the impact
    of its adoption on the consolidated financial statements.

3.    

Consolidations  

We have interests in various entities that are considered to be
    VIEs, as defined by FIN 46R. These interests include
    investments in securities issued by VIEs, such as Fannie Mae MBS
    created pursuant to our securitization transactions, mortgage-
    and asset-backed trusts that were not created by us, limited
    partnership interests in LIHTC partnerships that are established
    to finance the construction or development of low-income
    affordable multifamily housing and other limited partnerships.
    These interests may also include our guaranty to the entity.

Types
    of VIEs   

Securitization
    Trusts  

Under our lender swap and portfolio securitization transactions,
    mortgage loans are transferred to a trust specifically for the
    purpose of issuing a single class of guaranteed securities that
    are collateralized by the underlying mortgage loans. The
    trust s permitted activities include the receipt of the
    transferred assets, issuance of beneficial interests,
    establishment of the guaranty, and the servicing of mortgage
    loans. In our capacity as issuer, master servicer, trustee and
    guarantor, we earn fees for our obligations to each trust.
    Additionally, we may retain or purchase a portion of the
    securities that have been issued by each trust. However, the
    substantial majority of Fannie Mae MBS is held by third parties
    and therefore is generally not reflected in the consolidated
    balance sheets. We have securitized mortgage loans since 1981.
    Refer to  Note 7,

F-50

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Portfolio Securitizations  for additional information
    regarding the securitizations for which we are the transferor.

In our structured securitization transactions, we earn
    transaction fees for assisting lenders and dealers with the
    design and issuance of structured mortgage-related securities.
    The trusts created pursuant to these transactions have permitted
    activities that are similar to those for our lender swap and
    portfolio securitization transactions. The assets of these
    trusts may include mortgage-related securities
     and/or 
    mortgage loans as collateral. The trusts created for Mega
    securities issue single-class securities while the trusts
    created for REMIC, Grantor Trust and SMBS securities issue
    single-class as well as multi-class securities, the latter of
    which separate the cash flows from underlying assets into
    separately tradable interests. Our obligations and continued
    involvement in these trusts are similar to that described for
    lender swap and portfolio securitization transactions. We have
    securitized mortgage assets in structured transactions since
    1986.

We also invest in highly rated mortgage-backed and asset-backed
    securities that have been issued via private-label trusts. These
    trusts are structured to provide the investor with a beneficial
    interest in a pool of receivables or other financial assets,
    typically mortgage loans, credit card receivables, auto loans or
    student loans. The trusts act as vehicles to allow loan
    originators to securitize assets. The originators of the
    financial assets or the underwriters of the transaction create
    the trusts and typically own the residual interest in the
    trusts  assets. Our involvement in these entities is
    typically limited to our recorded investment in the beneficial
    interests that we have purchased. Securities are structured from
    the underlying pool of assets to provide for varying degrees of
    risk. We have made investments in these vehicles since 1987.

Limited
    Partnerships  

We make equity investments in various limited partnerships that
    sponsor affordable housing projects utilizing the low-income
    housing tax credit pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal
    Revenue Code. The purpose of these investments is to increase
    the supply of affordable housing in the United States and to
    serve communities in need. In addition, our investments in LIHTC
    partnerships generate both tax credits and net operating losses
    that reduce our federal income tax liability. Our LIHTC
    investments primarily represent limited partnership interests in
    entities that have been organized by a fund manager who acts as
    the general partner. These fund investments seek out equity
    investments in LIHTC operating partnerships that have been
    established to identify, develop and operate multifamily housing
    that is leased to qualifying residential tenants.

We also invest in other limited partnerships designed to
    acquire, develop and hold for sale or lease single-family
    (includes townhomes and condominiums), multifamily, retail or
    commercial real estate, as well as, in some cases, generate a
    combination of historic restoration, new markets, or low-income
    housing tax credits. We invest in these partnerships in order to
    increase the supply of affordable housing in the United States
    and to serve communities in need. We also earn a return on these
    investments, which in certain cases is generated through
    reductions in our federal income tax liability as a result of
    the use of tax credits for which the partnerships qualify, as
    well as the deductibility of the partnerships, net operating
    losses.

Additionally, we have five investments in limited partnerships
    relating to alternative energy sources. The purpose of these
    investments is to facilitate the development of alternative
    domestic energy sources and to achieve a satisfactory return on
    capital via a reduction in our federal income tax liability as a
    result of the use of the tax credits for which the partnerships
    qualify, as well as the deductibility of the partnerships 
    net operating losses.

Other
    VIEs  

The management and marketing of our foreclosed multifamily
    properties is performed by an independent third-party. To
    facilitate this arrangement, we transfer foreclosed properties
    to a VIE that is established by the counterparty responsible for
    managing and marketing the properties. We are the primary
    beneficiary of the entity. However, the only assets of the VIE
    are those foreclosed properties transferred by us. Because our
    transfer of the foreclosed properties does not qualify as a
    sale, the foreclosed properties are recorded in  Acquired
    property, net  in the consolidated balance sheets.

F-51

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Consolidated
    VIEs   

We consolidate in our financial statements Fannie Mae MBS trusts
    when we own 100% of the trust, which gives us the unilateral
    ability to liquidate the trust. We also consolidate MBS trusts
    that do not meet the definition of a QSPE when we are deemed to
    be the primary beneficiary. This includes certain private-label
    and Fannie Mae securitization trusts that met the VIE criteria.
    As an active participant in the secondary mortgage market, our
    ownership percentage in any given mortgage-related security will
    vary over time. We consolidated $147.8 billion and
    $153.3 billion of assets from MBS trusts in the
    consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2004 and
    2003, respectively. Third-party ownership in the consolidated
    MBS trusts was $9.7 billion and $8.1 billion as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and is recorded
    as a component of either  Short-term debt  or
     Long-term debt  in the consolidated balance sheets.

We consolidate in our financial statements the assets and
    liabilities of limited partnerships that are VIEs if we are
    deemed to be the primary beneficiary. Accordingly, we have
    consolidated the upper-tier partnerships for all of our LIHTC
    investments in private-label funds and certain investments in
    multi-investor funds. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, we
    consolidated $3.8 billion and $223 million,
    respectively, of assets of limited partnerships in the
    consolidated balance sheets. Third-party ownership in the
    consolidated limited partnerships is recorded in  Minority
    interests in consolidated subsidiaries  in the consolidated
    balance sheets.

The following table displays the carrying amount and
    classification of consolidated assets of VIEs as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003.

(1)   

Includes consolidated MBS trusts
    and consolidated mortgage revenue bond trusts.

In general, the investors in the obligations of consolidated
    VIEs have recourse only to the assets of those VIEs and do not
    have recourse to us, except where we are the counterparty to a
    guaranty transaction involving the VIE.

Non-consolidated
    VIEs   

We also have investments in VIEs that we did not consolidate
    because we were not deemed to be the primary beneficiary. These
    VIEs include the securitization trusts and LIHTC partnerships
    described above where our ownership represents a significant
    variable interest in the entity. This includes our investments
    in certain Fannie Mae securitization trusts, private-label
    trusts, LIHTC partnerships, other tax partnerships and other
    entities that meet the VIE criteria.

In the year ended December 31, 2004, we consolidated our
    investments in certain LIHTC funds that were structured as
    limited partnerships. The consolidated funds invest in LIHTC
    operating partnerships that did not require consolidation under
    the requirements of FIN 46R and are therefore accounted for
    using the equity method. Such investments, which are generally
    funded through a combination of debt and equity, with equity
    typically comprising 30% to 60% of the total project capital,
    have a recorded investment of $2.7 billion at
    December 31, 2004. The funds that were consolidated own a
    majority of the limited partnership interests in the LIHTC
    operating partnerships.

The total assets of unconsolidated VIEs where we have
    significant involvement was $33.8 billion and
    $39.3 billion as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively, including $25.0 billion and
    $28.5 billion in

F-52

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

mortgage-backed trust transactions, $3.7 billion and
    $3.8 billion in asset-backed trust transactions, and
    $5.1 billion and $7.0 billion in limited partnership
    investments, respectively.

In the aggregate, as of December 31, 2004, these VIEs have
    assets approximating $33.8 billion and our maximum exposure
    to loss from these entities approximated $24.1 billion,
    which represents the greater of our recorded investment in the
    entity or the unpaid principal balance of the assets that are
    covered by our guaranty. If a payment was required for
    certificates that received the benefit of the guarantee, our
    maximum loss would also include the interest that was accrued
    but had not been paid.

Other
    Consolidation Matters   

We own mortgage-backed securities as of December 31, 2004
    that are not traded on the book entry system and were issued by
    two trusts exempt from FIN 46R because, after making an
    exhaustive effort, we were unable to obtain the information to
    determine whether we are the primary beneficiary. As of
    December 31, 2004, our maximum exposure to loss for these
    entities was approximately $50 million. During the years
    ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, we received principal and
    interest payments on these investments of $13 million and
    $18 million, respectively.

4.    

Mortgage
    Loans  

We have mortgage loans that are both HFI and HFS. These mortgage
    loans consist of single-family loans, which are secured by four
    or fewer residential dwelling units, and multifamily loans,
    which are secured by five or more residential dwelling units.
    HFI loans are reported at the unpaid principal amount
    outstanding, net of unamortized premiums and discounts, deferred
    price adjustments, and an allowance for loan losses. HFS loans
    are reported at the lower of cost or market determined on a
    pooled basis, with valuation changes recorded in the
    consolidated statements of income.

The table below displays the product characteristics of both HFI
    and HFS loans in our mortgage portfolio as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003, and does not include loans underlying a security
    that is not consolidated, since in those instances the mortgage
    loans are not included in the consolidated balance sheets. Refer
    to  Note 7, Portfolio Securitizations  for
    additional information on mortgage loans underlying our
    securities.

(1)   

Loan data is shown at the unpaid
    principal balance and includes $152.7 billion and
    $162.5 billion of mortgage-related securities that were
    consolidated as loans as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively.

(2)   

Intermediate-term fixed-rate
    consists of mortgage loans with contractual maturities at
    purchase equal to or less than 15 years.

F-53

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, we
    redesignated $15.5 billion and $51.9 billion,
    respectively, of HFS loans to HFI. We did not redesignate any
    HFI loans to HFS during the two-year period ended
    December 31, 2004.

Interest income is recognized on an accrual basis. Included in
    our portfolio as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 were 76,310
    and 74,092 of nonaccrual loans respectively, which totaled
    $8.0 billion and $7.7 billion as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003, respectively. Accrued interest relating to these
    loans that we recorded prior to their placement on nonaccrual
    status totaled $192 million and $199 million as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Forgone interest
    on nonaccrual loans, which represents the amount of income
    contractually due that we would have reported had the loans
    performed according to their contractual terms, was
    $178 million, $183 million and $141 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively. Accruing loans 90 days or more past due
    totaled $187 million and $225 million as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

If a borrower of a loan underlying a Fannie Mae MBS is three or
    more months past due, we have the right to purchase the loan out
    of the related Fannie Mae MBS trust. Typically, we purchase
    these loans when the cost of advancing interest to the MBS trust
    at the security coupon rate exceeds the cost of holding the
    nonperforming loan in our mortgage portfolio. We purchased
    $9.4 billion, $10.1 billion and $8.4 billion of
    delinquent loans out of MBS pools for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

At times, we modify loans and categorize the modification either
    as minor, more than minor, or as a TDR. Single-family and
    multifamily loans that have not been modified as a TDR are
    collectively evaluated for incurred losses in accordance with
    our allowance for loan losses policy. Refer to
     Note 5, Allowance for Loan Losses and Reserve for
    Guaranty Losses  for additional information. Loans
    restructured in a TDR are individually evaluated for impairment.

Our impaired loans include single-family and multifamily TDRs,
    as well as multifamily individually impaired loans. The amount
    of interest income recognized on impaired loans was
    $47 million, $44 million and $37 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
    Our average recorded investment in all of these loans throughout
    the year was $1.0 billion, $812 million and
    $560 million for the years ended December 31, 2004,
    2003 and 2002, respectively.

The following table displays the total recorded investment in
    impaired loans and the corresponding specific loss allowances as
    of December 31, 2004 and 2003.

(1)   

The discounted cash flows,
    collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the carrying
    value of the loan, and as such, no allowance is required.

(2)   

Amount includes single-family and
    multifamily loans restructured in a TDR of $833 million and
    $697 million and multifamily loans individually impaired of
    $218 million and $340 million as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003, respectively.

(3)   

Amount is included in the
     Allowance for loan losses. 

F-54

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

5.    

Allowance
    for Loan Losses and Reserve for Guaranty Losses  

We maintain an allowance for loan losses for loans in our
    mortgage portfolio and a reserve for guaranty losses related to
    loans backing Fannie Mae MBS. The allowance and reserve are
    calculated based on our estimate of incurred losses. Refer to
     Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies  for additional information regarding aggregation
    of loans by risk characteristics and our methodology used to
    estimate the allowance and the reserve.

The following table displays changes in the allowance for loan
    losses and reserve for guaranty losses for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

(1)   

Includes accrued interest of
    $29 million, $29 million and $24 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

(2)   

Includes reduction in reserve for
    guaranty losses and increase in allowance for loan losses due to
    the purchase of delinquent loans from MBS pools.

The amount of the reserve for guaranty losses attributable to
    Fannie Mae MBS held in our portfolio was $113 million,
    $83 million and $61 million as of December 31,
    2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

F-55

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

6.    

Investments
    in Securities  

Our securities portfolio contains mortgage-related and
    non-mortgage-related securities. The following table displays
    our investments in securities, which are presented at fair value
    as of December 31, 2004 and 2003.

(1)   

Includes $1.3 billion and
    $268 million of Fannie Mae structured MBS and non-Fannie
    Mae structured mortgage-related securities and $180 million
    and $136 million of mortgage revenue bonds that were
    consolidated to Fannie Mae single-class MBS and non-Fannie
    Mae single-class mortgage-related securities as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

(2)   

Includes commitments related to
    mortgage-related securities that are accounted for as securities.

Trading
    Securities   

Trading securities are initially measured at fair value with
    changes in fair value recorded in  Investment losses,
    net  in the consolidated statements of income. Trading
    securities include Fannie Mae single-class MBS of
    $34.4 billion and $42.7 billion and non-Fannie Mae
    single-class mortgage-related securities of $937 million
    and $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively. Unrealized gains on trading securities held as of
    the end of the year totaled $133 million, $109 million
    and $209 million for the years ended December 31,
    2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Available-for-Sale 
    Securities   

AFS securities are initially measured at fair value and
    subsequent unrealized gains and losses are recorded as a
    component of AOCI, net of deferred taxes, in
     Stockholders  equity.  The following table
    displays the gross realized gains, losses and proceeds on sales
    of AFS securities for the years ended December 31, 2004,
    2003 and 2002.

F-56

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table displays the amortized cost, estimated fair
    values corresponding to unrealized gains and losses, and
    additional information regarding unrealized losses by major
    security type for AFS securities held as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003.

F-57

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)   

Amortized cost includes unamortized
    premiums, discounts and other deferred price adjustments, as
    well as
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment write-downs.

(2)   

Includes commitments related to
    mortgage securities that are accounted for as securities.

The fair value of securities varies from period to period due to
    changes in interest rates and changes in credit performance of
    the underlying issuer, among other factors. We recorded
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment related to investments in securities of
    $389 million, $733 million and $676 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively.

Included in the $1.4 billion of gross unrealized losses on
    AFS securities for 2004 was $602 million of unrealized
    losses that have existed for a period of 12 consecutive months
    or longer. These securities are predominately rated AAA and the
    unrealized losses are due to overall increases in market
    interest rates and not due to any underlying credit
    deterioration of the issuers. Substantially all of the
    securities with unrealized losses aged greater than
    12 months have a market value as of December 31, 2004
    that is within 98% of their amortized cost basis. All aged
    unrealized losses are recoverable within a reasonable period of
    time by way of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, we
    have concluded that none of the unrealized losses on securities
    in our investment portfolio represent
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment as of December 31, 2004.

The following table displays the amortized cost and fair value
    of our AFS securities by investment classification and remaining
    maturity as of December 31, 2004.

(1)   

Amortized cost includes unamortized
    premiums, discounts and other deferred price adjustments, as
    well as
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment write-downs.

(2)   

Asset-backed securities, including
    mortgage-backed securities, are reported based on contractual
    maturities assuming no prepayments.

(3)   

Includes commitments related to
    mortgage securities that are accounted for as securities.

F-58

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

7.    

Portfolio
    Securitizations  

We issue Fannie Mae MBS through securitization transactions by
    transferring pools of mortgage loans or mortgage-related
    securities to one or more trusts or SPEs. We are considered to
    be the transferor when we transfer assets from our own portfolio
    in a portfolio securitization. For the years ended
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, portfolio securitizations were
    $28.1 billion and $55.6 billion, respectively.

For the transfers that were recorded as sales, we may retain an
    interest in the assets transferred to a trust. Our retained
    interests in the form of Fannie Mae MBS were approximately
    $11.1 billion and $15.0 billion. Our retained
    interests in the form of a guaranty asset were $182 million
    and $106 million; and our retained interests in the form of
    an MSA were not material as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively. See  Note 2, Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies  for additional information.

Our retained interests in portfolio securitizations, including
    single-class MBS, Megas, REMICs and SMBS, are exposed to
    minimal credit losses as they represent undivided interests in
    the highest-rated tranches of the rated securities and are
    priced assuming no losses. In addition, our exposure to credit
    losses on the loans underlying our Fannie Mae MBS resulting from
    our guaranty has been recorded in the consolidated balance
    sheets in  Guaranty obligations,  as it relates to our
    obligation to stand ready to perform on our guaranty, and
     Reserve for guaranty losses,  as it relates to
    incurred losses.

Since the retained interest that results from our guaranty does
    not trade in active financial markets, we estimate its fair
    value by using internally developed models and market inputs for
    securities with similar characteristics. The key assumptions are
    discount rate, or yield, derived using a projected interest rate
    path consistent with the observed yield curve at the valuation
    date (forward rates), and the prepayment speed based on our
    proprietary models that are consistent with the projected
    interest rate path and expressed as a 12 month constant
    prepayment rate ( CPR ).

Our retained interests in single-class MBS, Megas, REMICs
    and SMBS are interests in securities with active liquid markets.
    We primarily rely on third party prices to estimate the fair
    value of these retained interests. For the purpose of this
    disclosure, we aggregate similar securities in order to measure
    the key assumptions associated with the fair values of our
    retained interests, which are approximated by solving for the
    estimated discount rate, or yield, using a projected interest
    rate path consistent with the observed yield curve at the
    valuation date (forward rates), and the prepayment speed based
    on either our proprietary models that are consistent with the
    projected interest rate path, the pricing speed for newly issued
    REMICs, or lagging 12 month actual prepayment speed. All
    prepayment speeds are expressed as a 12 month CPR.

The following table displays the key assumptions used in
    measuring the fair value of our retained interests at the time
    of portfolio securitization for the years ended
    December 31, 2004 and 2003.

(1)   

The average number of years for
    which each dollar of unpaid principal on a loan or
    mortgage-related security remains outstanding.

(2)   

Represents the expected lifetime
    average payment rate, which is based on the constant annualized
    prepayment rate for mortgage-related loans.

F-59

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table displays the key assumptions used in
    measuring the fair value of our retained interests related to
    portfolio securitization transactions as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003 and a sensitivity analysis showing the impact of
    changes in both prepayment speed assumptions and discount rates.

(1)   

The average number of years for
    which each dollar of unpaid principal on a loan or
    mortgage-related security remains outstanding.

(2)   

Represents the expected lifetime
    average payment rate, which is based on the constant annualized
    prepayment rate for mortgage related loans.

(3)   

The interest rate used in
    determining the present value of future cash flows.

The preceding sensitivity analysis is hypothetical and may not
    be indicative of actual results. The effect of a variation in a
    particular assumption on the fair value of the retained interest
    is calculated independent of changes in any other assumption.
    Changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which
    might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. Further, changes
    in fair value based on a 10% or 20% variation in an assumption
    or parameter generally cannot be extrapolated because the
    relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in
    fair value may not be linear.

The gain or loss on portfolio securitizations that qualify as
    sales depends, in part, on the carrying amount of the financial
    assets sold. The carrying amount of the financial assets sold is
    allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests, if
    any, based on their relative fair values at the date of sale.
    Further, our recourse obligations are recognized at their full
    fair value at the date of sale, which serves as a reduction of
    sale proceeds in the gain or loss calculation. We recorded net
    losses on portfolio securitizations of $34 million and
    $13 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
    2003, respectively, and a net gain of $13 million for

F-60

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

the year ended December 31, 2002. These losses are
    recognized as  Investment losses, net  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

The following table displays cash flows to us and (from us) on
    our securitization trusts related to portfolio securitizations
    accounted for as sales for the years ended December 31,
    2004, 2003 and 2002.

Managed loans are defined as on-balance sheet mortgage loans as
    well as mortgage loans which were securitized in a portfolio
    securitization. The following table displays combined
    information on the unpaid principal balances and principal
    amounts on non-accrual loans related to managed loans as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003.

(1)   

Loans for which interest is no
    longer being accrued. In general, we prospectively discontinue
    accruing interest when payment of principal and interest becomes
    three or more months past due.

Net credit losses incurred during the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 related to loans held in
    our portfolio and underlying Fannie Mae MBS were
    $204 million, $214 million and $162 million,
    respectively.

8.    

Financial
    Guaranties and Master Servicing  

Financial
    Guaranties   

We generate revenue by absorbing the credit risk of mortgage
    loans and mortgage-related securities backing our Fannie Mae MBS
    in exchange for a guaranty fee. We primarily issue single-class
    and multi-class Fannie Mae MBS and guarantee to the
    respective MBS trusts that we will supplement mortgage loan
    collections as required to permit timely payment of principal
    and interest due on the related Fannie Mae MBS, irrespective of
    the cash flows received from borrowers. We also provide credit
    enhancements on taxable or tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds
    issued by state and local governmental entities to finance
    multifamily housing for low- and moderate- income families.

Additionally, we issue long-term standby commitments that
    require us to purchase loans from lenders if the loans meet
    certain delinquency criteria.

F-61

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

We record a guaranty obligation for (i) guaranties on
    lender swap transactions issued or modified on or after
    January 1, 2003, pursuant to FIN 45, and
    (ii) guaranties on portfolio securitization transactions.
    Our guaranty obligation represents our estimated obligation to
    stand ready to perform on these guaranties. Our guaranty
    obligation is recorded at fair value at inception. The carrying
    amount of the guaranty obligation, excluding deferred profit,
    was $4.1 billion and $2.8 billion as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We also record an
    estimate of incurred credit losses on these guaranties in
     Reserve for guaranty losses  in the consolidated
    balance sheets, as discussed further in  Note 5,
    Allowance for Loan Losses and Reserve for Guaranty Losses. 

These guaranties expose us to credit losses on the mortgage
    loans or, in the case of mortgage-related securities, the
    underlying mortgage loans of the related securities. The
    contractual terms of our guaranties range from 30 days to
    30 years. However, the actual term of each guaranty may be
    significantly less than the contractual term based on the
    prepayment characteristics of the related mortgage loans. For
    those guaranties recorded in the consolidated balance sheets,
    our maximum potential exposure under these guaranties is
    primarily comprised of the unpaid principal balance of the
    underlying mortgage loans, which was $1.3 trillion and $1.0
    trillion as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In
    addition, we had exposure of $444.5 billion and
    $683.9 billion for other guaranties not recorded in the
    consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2004 and
    2003, respectively. See  Note 18, Concentrations of
    Credit Risk  for further details on these guaranties. Our
    maximum potential interest payments associated with these
    guaranties are not expected to exceed 120 days of interest
    at the certificate rate, since we typically purchase delinquent
    mortgage loans when the cost of advancing interest under the
    guaranties exceeds the cost of holding the nonperforming loans
    in our mortgage portfolio.

The maximum exposure from our guaranties is not representative
    of the actual loss we are likely to incur, based on our
    historical loss experience. In the event we were required to
    make payments under our guaranties, we would pursue recovery of
    these payments by exercising our rights to the collateral
    backing the underlying loans or through available credit
    enhancements, which includes all recourse with third parties and
    mortgage insurance. The maximum amount we could recover through
    available credit enhancements was $83.7 billion and
    $63.5 billion as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively.

Guaranty
    Obligations  

The following table displays changes in  Guaranty
    obligations  for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
    2003.

(1)   

Represents the fair value of the
    contractual obligation and deferred profit at issuance of new
    guaranties.

(2)   

Upon consolidation of MBS trusts,
    we derecognize our guaranty obligation to the respective trust.
    See  Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies  for further details on MBS trust consolidation.

Deferred profit is a component of  Guaranty
    obligations  in the consolidated balance sheets and is
    included in the table above. We record deferred profit on
    guaranties issued or modified on or after the January 1,
    2003 adoption date of FIN 45 if the consideration we expect
    to receive for our guaranty exceeds the estimated fair value of
    the guaranty obligation. Deferred profit had a carrying amount
    of $4.7 billion and $3.6 billion as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We recognized
    deferred profit amortization of $1.3 billion and

F-62

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

$1.0 billion for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
    2003, respectively. Prior to the adoption of FIN 45, we did
    not separately recognize deferred profit or related amortization.

Fannie
    Mae MBS Included in Investments in Securities  

For Fannie Mae MBS included in  Investments in
    securities,  we do not eliminate or extinguish the guaranty
    arrangement because it is a contractual arrangement with the
    unconsolidated MBS trusts. The fair value of Fannie Mae MBS is
    determined based on observable market prices because most Fannie
    Mae MBS are actively traded. Fannie Mae MBS receive high credit
    quality ratings primarily because of our guaranty. Absent our
    guaranty, Fannie Mae MBS would be subject to the credit risk on
    the underlying loans. We continue to recognize a guaranty
    obligation and a reserve for guaranty losses associated with
    these securities because we carry these securities in the
    consolidated financial statements as guaranteed Fannie Mae MBS.
    The fair value of the guaranty obligation, net of deferred
    profit, associated with Fannie Mae MBS included in
     Investments in securities  approximates the fair
    value of the credit risk that exists on these Fannie Mae MBS
    absent our guaranty. The fair value of the guaranty obligation,
    net of deferred profit, associated with the Fannie Mae MBS
    included in  Investments in securities  was
    $256 million and $364 million as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003, respectively.

Master
    Servicing   

We do not perform the
     day-to-day 
    servicing of mortgage loans in an MBS trust in a Fannie Mae
    securitization transaction; however, we are compensated to carry
    out administrative functions for the trust and oversee the
    primary servicer s performance of the
     day-to-day 
    servicing of the trust s mortgage assets. This arrangement
    gives rise to either an MSA or an MSL.

Our MSA, net of a valuation allowance, was $580 million and
    $368 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively. We recognized additions to MSA of
    $212 million and $299 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. For the years
    ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, we recognized MSA
    amortization of $22 million, $76 million and
    $53 million, respectively, with a proportionate reduction
    of related deferred profit, where applicable. The MSA fair value
    was $808 million and $431 million as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

We record LOCOM adjustments to the MSA through a valuation
    allowance. The MSA valuation allowance was $19 million,
    $74 million and $81 million as of December, 31,
    2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. We recognized LOCOM
    adjustments (recoveries) to the MSA of $(56) million,
    $(7) million and $57 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In
    addition, we recognized
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment of $23 million, $148 million and
    $187 million for the years ended December 31, 2004,
    2003 and 2002, respectively, which directly reduced the value of
    the MSA as well the valuation allowance for any amount
    previously recorded as a LOCOM adjustment.

9.    

Short-term
    Borrowings and Long-term Debt  

We obtain the funds to finance our mortgage purchases and other
    business activities by selling debt securities in both the
    domestic and international capital markets. We issue a variety
    of debt securities to fulfill our ongoing funding needs.

Short-term
    Borrowings   

Our short-term borrowings consist of both  Federal funds
    purchased and securities sold under agreements to
    repurchase  and  Short-term debt  in the
    consolidated balance sheets. These are defined as borrowings
    with an original contractual maturity of one year or less. The
    following table displays our short-term borrowings as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003.

F-63

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)   

Includes discounts, premiums and
    other deferred price adjustments.

Our federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements
    to repurchase represent agreements to repurchase securities from
    banks with excess reserves on a particular day for a specified
    price, with the repayment generally occurring on the following
    day. Our short-term debt includes U.S. discount notes and
    foreign exchange discount notes, as well as other short-term
    debt. Our U.S. discount notes are unsecured general
    obligations and have maturities ranging from overnight to
    360 days from the date of issuance. Additionally, we issue
    foreign exchange discount notes in the Euro money market
    enabling investors to hold short-term investments in different
    currencies. We have the ability to issue foreign exchange
    discount notes in all tradable currencies in maturities from
    5 days to 360 days. Both of these types of debt
    securities are issued with interest rates that are either fixed
    or floating. Additionally, we have short-term debt from
    consolidations, which is described below.

F-64

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Long-term
    Debt   

Long-term debt represents borrowings with an original
    contractual maturity of greater than one year. The following
    table displays our long-term debt as of December 31, 2004
    and 2003.

(1)   

Includes discounts, premiums and
    other deferred price adjustments.

(2)   

Reported amounts include a net
    premium and deferred price adjustments of $11.2 billion and
    $11.5 billion as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively.

Our long-term debt includes a variety of debt types. We issue
    both fixed and floating medium-term notes, which range in
    maturity from one to ten years and are issued through dealer
    banks. We also offer both senior and subordinated benchmark
    notes and bonds in large, regularly-scheduled issuances that
    provide increased efficiency, liquidity and tradability to the
    market. We did not issue subordinated benchmark debt during
    2004, but issued subordinated notes and bonds with a face value
    of $4.0 billion in 2003. Our outstanding subordinated
    benchmark debt, net of discounts, premiums and other deferred
    price adjustments, was $14.2 billion and $14.0 billion
    for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively. Additionally, we have issued notes and bonds
    denominated in several foreign currencies and are prepared to
    issue debt in numerous other currencies. All foreign currency
    denominated transactions are swapped back into U.S. dollars
    through the use of cross currency interest rate swaps for the
    purpose of funding our mortgage assets.

Our other long-term debt includes callable and non-callable
    securities, which include all long-term non-benchmark
    securities, such as zero-coupons, fixed and other long-term
    securities, and are generally negotiated underwritings with one
    or more dealers or dealer banks.

Debt
    from Consolidations   

Debt from consolidations includes debt from both MBS trust
    consolidations and certain secured borrowings. Debt from MBS
    trust consolidations represents our liability to third-party
    beneficial interest holders when the

F-65

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

assets of corresponding trust have been included in the
    consolidated balance sheets and we do not own all of the
    beneficial interests in the trust. Long-term debt from these
    transactions in the consolidated balance sheets as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $5.8 billion and
    $5.7 billion, respectively.

Additionally, we record a secured borrowing, to the extent of
    proceeds received, upon the transfer of financial assets from
    the consolidated balance sheets that does not qualify as a sale.
    Long-term debt from these transactions in the consolidated
    balance sheets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 was
    $2.7 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively.

Characteristics
    of Debt   

As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, we had zero-coupon debt
    with a face amount of $325.4 billion and
    $347.1 billion, respectively, which had an effective
    interest rate of 2.2% and 1.2%, respectively.

We issue callable debt instruments to manage the duration and
    prepayment risk of expected cash flows of the mortgage assets we
    own. Our outstanding debt as of December 31, 2004 included
    $212.2 billion of callable debt that could be redeemed in
    whole or in part at our option any time on or after a specified
    date.

The table below displays the amount of our long-term debt as of
    December 31, 2004 by year of maturity for each of the years
     2005-2009 
    and thereafter. The first column assumes that we pay off this
    debt at maturity, while the second column assumes that we redeem
    our callable debt at the next available call date.

(1)   

Contractual maturity of debt from
    consolidations is not a reliable indicator of expected maturity
    because borrowers of the underlying loans generally have the
    right to prepay their obligations at any time.

(2)   

Reported amount includes a net
    premium and deferred price adjustments of $11.2 billion.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, we called
    $155.6 billion of debt with a weighted average interest
    rate of 2.8% and repurchased $4.3 billion of debt with a
    weighted average interest rate of 3.5%. During the year ended
    December 31, 2003, we called $188.7 billion of debt
    with a weighted average interest rate of 3.3% and repurchased
    $19.8 billion of debt with a weighted average interest rate
    of 5.6%. During the year ended December 31, 2002, we called
    $121.0 billion of debt with a weighted average interest
    rate of 5.0% and repurchased $7.9 billion of debt with a
    weighted average interest rate of 6.2%. We recorded losses from
    these debt extinguishments of $152 million,
    $2.7 billion and $814 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

10.    

Derivative
    Instruments  

We use derivative instruments, in combination with our debt
    issuances, to reduce the duration and prepayment risk relating
    to the mortgage assets we own. We also enter into commitments to
    purchase and sell securities and purchase loans. We account for
    some of these commitments as derivatives. Typically, we settle
    the notional amount of our mortgage commitments; however, we do
    not settle the notional amount of our derivative instruments.
    Notional amounts, therefore, simply provide the basis for
    calculating actual payments or settlement amounts.

F-66

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Although derivative instruments are critical to our interest
    rate risk management strategy, we did not apply hedge accounting
    to instruments entered into during the three-year period ended
    December 31, 2004. As such, all fair value changes and
    gains and losses on these derivatives, including accrued
    interest, were recognized as  Derivatives fair value
    losses, net  in the consolidated statements of income.

Prior to our adoption of SFAS 133, certain of our
    derivative instruments met the criteria for hedge accounting
    under the accounting standards at that time. Accordingly,
    effective with our adoption of SFAS 133, we deferred gains
    of approximately $230 million from fair value-type hedges
    as basis adjustments to the related debt and $75 million
    for cash flow-type hedges in AOCI. We recorded amortization
    related to the fair value-type hedges of $31 million,
    $42 million and $37 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, as a
    reduction of  Interest expense  in the consolidated
    statements of income. We recorded amortization related to the
    cash flow-type hedges of $7 million, $8 million and
    $17 million for the years ended December 31, 2004,
    2003 and 2002, respectively, as a reduction of  Interest
    expense  in the consolidated statements of income.

Derivatives   

We issue various types of debt to finance the acquisition of
    mortgages and mortgage-related securities. We use interest rate
    swaps and interest rate options, in combination with our debt
    issuances, to better match both the duration and prepayment risk
    of our mortgages and mortgage-related securities, which we would
    not be able to accomplish solely through the issuance of debt.
    These instruments primarily include interest rate swaps,
    swaptions and caps. Interest rate swaps provide for the exchange
    of fixed and variable interest payments based on contractual
    notional principal amounts. These may include callable swaps,
    which give counterparties or us the right to terminate interest
    rate swaps before their stated maturities. Swaptions provide us
    with an option to enter into interest rate swaps at a future
    date. Caps provide ceilings on the interest rates of our
    variable-rate debt. We also use basis swaps, which provide for
    the exchange of variable payments based on different interest
    rate indices, such as the Treasury Bill rate, the Prime rate, or
    the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate. Although our
    foreign-denominated debt represents approximately 1% of total
    debt outstanding as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, we enter
    into foreign currency swaps to effectively convert our
    foreign-denominated debt into U.S. dollars.

F-67

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table displays the outstanding notional balances
    and fair value of our derivative instruments as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003.

(1)   

Represents the net of
     Derivative assets at fair value  and  Derivative
    liabilities at fair value  for derivatives excluding
    mortgage commitment derivatives.

(2)   

Includes MBS options, swap credit
    enhancements and mortgage insurance contracts that are accounted
    for as derivatives. The mortgage insurance contracts have
    payment provisions that are not based on a notional amount.

Mortgage
    Commitment Derivatives   

We enter into forward purchase and sale commitments that lock in
    the future delivery of mortgage loans and mortgage-related
    securities at a fixed price or yield. Certain commitments to
    purchase mortgage loans and purchase or sell mortgage-related
    securities meet the criteria of a derivative and these
    commitments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at
    fair value as either  Derivative assets at fair value 
    or  Derivative liabilities at fair value.  The
    following table displays the outstanding notional balance and
    fair value for our mortgage commitment derivatives as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003.

(1)   

Represents the net of
     Derivative assets at fair value  and  Derivative
    liabilities at fair value  for mortgage commitment
    derivatives.

F-68

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

We operate as a government-sponsored enterprise. We are subject
    to federal income tax, but we are exempt from state and local
    income taxes. The following table displays the components of our
    provision for federal income taxes for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

The table above excludes the income tax effect of our minimum
    pension liability, unrealized gains and losses of AFS securities
    and guaranty assets and buy-ups, since the tax effect of those
    items is recognized directly in  Stockholders 
    equity.  Stockholders  equity increased by
    $500 million and $3.3 billion for the years ended
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and decreased by
    $3.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2002, as
    a result of these tax effects. Additionally, the table above
    does not reflect the tax impact of extraordinary gains (losses)
    or cumulative effect of change in accounting principle as these
    amounts are recorded in the consolidated statements of income,
    net of tax effect. We recorded a tax benefit of $4 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2004 and tax expense of
    $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2003
    related to extraordinary gains (losses). In addition, for the
    year ended December 31, 2003, we recorded tax expense of
    $20 million related to the cumulative effect of change in
    accounting principle.

The following table displays the difference between our
    effective tax rates and the statutory federal tax rates for the
    years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

The effective tax rate is the provision for federal income
    taxes, excluding the tax effect of extraordinary items and
    cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, expressed
    as a percentage of income before federal income taxes. The
    effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2004,
    2003 and 2002 is different from the federal statutory rate of
    35% primarily due to the benefits of our holdings of tax-exempt
    investments as well as our investments in housing projects
    eligible for the low-income housing tax credit and other equity
    investments that provide tax credits. In 2004, offsetting these
    decreases to the effective tax rate was the tax impact of the
    $400 million civil penalty agreed to with OFHEO and the SEC
    that is non-deductible for tax purposes. The higher effective
    rate in 2003 as compared to 2004 and 2002 relates to our higher
    earnings in 2003.

F-69

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table displays our deferred tax assets and
    deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 2004 and 2003.

We are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service
    ( IRS ). The IRS is currently examining our
     2002-2004 
    tax returns. We have issues before the IRS Appeals Division
    related to tax years
     1999-2001. 
    We and the IRS have resolved all issues raised by the IRS for
    the years prior to 1999.

F-70

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table displays the computation of basic and
    diluted earnings per share of common stock.

(1)   

Dilutive potential common shares
    consist primarily of the dilutive effect from our nonqualified
    stock options.

(2)   

Amount is net of preferred stock
    dividends and issuance costs at redemption.

13.    

Stock-Based
    Compensation Plans  

We have two stock-based compensation plans, the 1985 Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan and the Stock Compensation Plan of 2003.
    Under these plans, we offer various stock-based compensation
    programs where we provide employees an opportunity to purchase
    Fannie Mae common stock or we periodically make stock awards to
    certain employees in the form of nonqualified stock options,
    performance share awards, restricted stock awards, restricted
    stock units or stock bonus awards. In connection with current
    and predecessor stock-based compensation plans, we recorded
    compensation expense of $105 million, $113 million and
    $42 million for the years ended December 31, 2004,
    2003 and 2002, respectively.

Stock-Based
    Compensation Plans   

The 1985 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  1985 Purchase
    Plan ) provides employees an opportunity to purchase shares
    of Fannie Mae common stock at a discount to the fair market
    value of the stock during specified purchase periods. Our Board
    of Directors sets the terms and conditions of offerings under
    the 1985 Purchase Plan, including the number of available shares
    and the size of the discount. In 2004, our shareholders

F-71

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

approved the Board of Directors  recommendation to increase
    the aggregate maximum number of shares of common stock available
    for employee purchase to 50 million from 41 million.
    Since its inception in 1985, we have made available
    39,581,505 shares under the 1985 Purchase Plan. In any
    purchase period, the maximum number of shares available for
    purchase by an eligible employee is the largest number of whole
    shares having an aggregate fair market value on the first day of
    the purchase period that does not exceed $25,000. The shares
    offered under the 1985 Purchase Plan are authorized and unissued
    shares of common stock or treasury shares.

The Stock Compensation Plan of 2003 (the  2003 Plan )
    is the successor to the Stock Compensation Plan of 1993 (the
     1993 Plan ). By its terms, no new awards were
    permitted to be made under the 1993 Plan after May 20, 2003
    other than automatic grants of restricted stock to directors
    joining our Board of Directors on or prior to May 22, 2006.
    The 2003 Plan, like the 1993 Plan, enables us to make stock
    awards in various forms and combinations. Under the 2003 Plan,
    these include stock options, stock appreciation rights,
    restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance share
    awards and stock bonus awards. The aggregate maximum number of
    shares of common stock available for award to employees and
    non-management directors under the 2003 Plan is 40 million.
    Since its inception in 2003 and after the effects of
    cancellations, we have awarded 4,028,732 shares under this
    plan. The shares awarded under the 2003 Plan may be authorized
    and unissued shares, treasury shares or shares purchased on the
    open market.

Stock-Based
    Compensation Programs   

Nonqualified
    Stock Options  

Under the 2003 Plan, we may grant stock options to eligible
    employees and non-management members of the Board of Directors.
    Generally, employees and non-management directors cannot
    exercise their options until at least one year subsequent to the
    grant date, and they expire ten years from the date of grant.
    Typically options vest 25% per year beginning on the first
    anniversary of the date of grant. The exercise price of each
    option was equal to the fair market value of our common stock on
    the date we granted the option. Since 2003, we have recorded
    compensation expense for grants under this plan under
    SFAS 123. We recorded compensation expense related to
    nonqualified stock options of $34 million and
    $20 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
    2003, respectively. Prior to our adoption of SFAS 123, we
    did not recognize compensation expense for this program.

Under the 1993 Plan, our Board of Directors approved the EPS
    Challenge Option Grant in January 2000 for all regular full-time
    and part-time employees. At that time, all employees, other than
    management group employees, received a one-time grant of 350
    options at a price of $62.50 per share, the fair market
    value of the stock on the grant date. Management group employees
    received option grants equivalent to a set percentage of their
    November 1999 stock grants. Subsequent grants were made to new
    or promoted employees. EPS Challenge Option Grants were
    scheduled to vest over a stated time period with accelerated
    vesting if we met target financial performance goals in 2003
    based on a pre-determined earnings per share amount set by the
    Board of Directors. The Board of Directors determined that we
    exceeded the target goal in December 2003 and the EPS Challenge
    options vested in January 2004.

F-72

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table displays nonqualified stock option activity
    for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

(1)   

Options in thousands.

The following table displays information about our nonqualified
    stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2004.

(1)   

Options in thousands.

Employee
    Stock Purchase Program Plus  

Prior to 2003, the Board of Directors established offerings to
    eligible employees under the 1985 Purchase Plan. Beginning with
    the 2003 offering, the program was redesigned as a two-part
    program known as the Employee Stock Purchase Program Plus. The
    new program consisted of two parts: (i) an opportunity to
    receive the right to purchase shares of common stock pursuant to
    the 1985 Purchase Plan (the  ESPP Component  and
    (ii) a contingent stock bonus award pursuant to the
    provisions of the 1993 Plan for the 2003 offering and the 2003
    Plan for the 2004 offering (the  Plus Component ). In
    2004 and 2003, under the ESPP Component, employees could
    purchase shares at 95% of the stock price on the grant date. In
    contrast, prior offerings, including the 2002 offering,
    permitted eligible employees to purchase shares at 85% of the
    stock price on the date of grant. Under the Plus Component,
    employees were granted a stock bonus contingent upon meeting our
    predetermined corporate thresholds.

Under the 2004 offering of the ESPP Component of the plan, we
    issued 2,568 shares of common stock in 2004, all of which
    were purchased by employees who retired during the year.
    Additionally, eligible employees purchased 1,764,983 shares
    of common stock in 2004 at $61.28 per share under the 2003
    offering. In 2003, employees purchased 5,580 shares of
    common stock in 2003 at $68.46 per share under the 2002
    offering. All shares vest immediately upon purchase by the
    employee.

F-73

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Under the Plus Component of the plan, we did not award any stock
    grants for the 2004 offering because we were unable to determine
    whether the performance criteria had been met because we did not
    have financial data on which we could rely to make the
    determination. Instead, the Compensation Committee of the Board
    of Directors replaced the Plus Component of the offering with a
    cash payment of $2,500 to each eligible employee. Under the Plus
    Component for the 2003 offering, employees received
    177,475 shares in 2004. The Plus Component was not part of
    the 2002 offering.

The ESPP Component under the program is considered to be
    compensatory under SFAS 123 due to certain option features.
    Therefore, we recognized compensation expense for grants of
    $13 million and $12 million in 2004 and 2003,
    respectively. Prior to our adoption of SFAS 123, we did not
    recognize compensation expense related to the ESPP. The Plus
    Component of the program is also compensatory. As such, we
    recorded compensation expense of $1 million and
    $11 million related to the stock grants in 2004 and 2003,
    respectively. The 2004 amount was lower than the 2003 amount due
    to $12 million of expense recorded for the cash payments
    made as a replacement of the stock grants, as discussed above.
    There were no grants under this component of the program in 2002.

Performance
    Share Program  

Under the 1993 and 2003 Plans, certain eligible employees may be
    awarded performance shares. This program has only been made
    available to Senior Vice Presidents and above. Under the plans,
    the terms and conditions of the awards are established by the
    Compensation Committee for the 2003 Plan and by the
    non-management members of the Board of Directors for the 1993
    Plan. Performance shares become actual awards of common stock if
    the goals set for the multi-year performance cycle are attained.
    At the end of the performance period, we distribute common stock
    in two or three installments over a period not longer than three
    years as long as the participant remains employed by Fannie Mae.
    Generally, dividend equivalents are earned on unpaid
    installments of completed cycles and are paid at the same time
    the shares are delivered to participants. The aggregate market
    value of performance shares awarded is capped at three times the
    stock price on the date of grant. The Board authorized and
    granted 517,373 shares, 466,216 shares and
    505,588 shares for the three-year performance periods
    beginning in January of 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
    Performance shares had a weighted average grant date fair value
    of $71.83, $64.24 and $75.56 in 2004, 2003 and 2002,
    respectively.

Outstanding contingent grants of common stock under the
    Performance Share Program as of December 31, 2004 totaled
    381,920, 423,251, 585,341 and 286,549 for the
     2004-2006, 
     2003-2005, 
     2002-2004 
    and
     2001-2003 
    performance periods, respectively. We recorded compensation
    expense for these grants of $24 million, $55 million
    and $34 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These
    shares have not been issued because the Compensation Committee
    has not yet determined if we achieved our goals for each period
    due to the restatement. A determination as to payment for this
    program will be made by the Board of Directors after reviewing
    the restated consolidated financial results and assessing its
    impact on the quantitative measures as well as considerations of
    qualitative measures.

Restricted
    Stock Program  

Under the 1993 and 2003 Plans, employees may be awarded grants
    as restricted stock awards ( RSA ) and, under the 2003
    Plan, also as restricted stock units ( RSU ),
    depending on years of service and age at the time of grant. Each
    RSU represents the right to receive a share of common stock at
    the time of vesting. As a result, RSUs are generally similar to
    restricted stock, except that RSUs do not confer voting rights
    on their holders. By contrast, the RSAs do have voting rights.
    Vesting of the grants is based on continued employment. In
    general, grants vest in equal annual installments over three or
    four years beginning on the first anniversary of the date of
    grant. The compensation expense related to restricted stock is
    based on the grant date fair value of our common stock.

In 2004, we awarded 668 shares of restricted stock under
    the 1993 Plan and 1,035,891 shares of restricted stock
    under the 2003 Plan. We released 244,535 shares in 2004 as
    awards vested. In 2003, we awarded 506,625 shares of
    restricted stock under the 1993 Plan and 65,624 shares of
    restricted stock under the 2003

F-74

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Plan. We released 116,119 shares in 2003 as awards vested.
    Unvested shares totaled 1,522,859 and 806,274 as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, at a weighted
    average fair value at grant date of $75.32 and $70.98,
    respectively.

We recorded compensation expense for these grants of
    $32 million, $16 million and $8 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Stock
    Appreciation Rights   

Under the 2003 Plan, we are permitted to grant to employees
    Stock Appreciation Rights ( SARs ), an award of common
    stock or an amount of cash, or a combination of shares of common
    stock and cash, the aggregate amount or value of which is
    determined by reference to a change in the fair value of the
    common stock. As of December 31, 2004, no SARs had been
    granted.

Shares Available
    for Future Issuance   

The 1985 Purchase Plan and the 2003 Plan allow us to issue up to
    90 million shares of common stock to eligible employees for
    all programs. As of December 31, 2004, 10,418,495 and
    35,971,268 shares remained available for grant under the
    1985 Purchase Plan and the 2003 Plan, respectively.

14.    

Employee
    Retirement Benefits  

We sponsor both defined benefit plans and defined contribution
    plans for our employees, as well as a healthcare plan that
    provides certain health benefits for retired employees and their
    dependents.

Defined
    Benefit Pension Plans and Postretirement Health Care
    Plan   

Our defined benefit pension plans include qualified and
    nonqualified noncontributory plans. Pension plan benefits are
    based on years of credited service and a percentage of eligible
    compensation. All regular full-time employees and regular
    part-time employees regularly scheduled to work at least
    1,000 hours per year are eligible to participate in the
    qualified defined benefit pension plan. We fund our qualified
    pension plan through employer contributions to an irrevocable
    trust that is maintained for the sole benefit of plan
    participants. Contributions to our qualified pension plan are
    subject to a minimum funding requirement and a maximum funding
    limit under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
    ( ERISA ) and IRS regulations. Although we were not
    required to make any contributions to the qualified plan in
    2004, 2003 or 2002, we did elect to make discretionary
    contributions in each of these years.

Our nonqualified pension plans include an Executive Pension
    Plan, Supplemental Pension Plan and the 2003 Supplemental
    Pension Plan, which is a bonus-based plan. These plans cover
    certain executive-level employees and supplement the benefits
    payable under the qualified pension plan. The Compensation
    Committee of the Board of Directors selects those who can
    participate in the Executive Pension Plan. The Board of
    Directors approves the pension goals under the Executive Pension
    Plan for participants who are at the level of Executive Vice
    President and above and payments are reduced by any amounts
    payable under the qualified plan. Participants typically vest in
    their pension benefits after ten years of service as a
    participant, with partial vesting usually beginning after five
    years. Benefits under the Executive Pension Plan are paid
    through a rabbi trust.

The Supplemental Pension Plan provides retirement benefits to
    employees who do not receive a benefit from the Executive
    Pension Plan and whose salary exceeds the statutory compensation
    cap applicable to the qualified plan or whose benefit is limited
    by the statutory benefit cap. Similarly, the 2003 Supplemental
    Pension Plan provides additional benefits to our officers based
    on the annual cash bonus received by an officer, but the amount
    of bonus considered is limited to 50% of the officer s
    salary. We pay benefits for our unfunded Supplemental Pension
    Plans from our cash and cash equivalents.

We also sponsor a contributory postretirement Health Care Plan
    that covers substantially all regular full-time employees who
    meet the applicable service requirements. We accrue and pay the
    benefits for our unfunded postretirement Health Care Plan from
    our cash and cash equivalents.

F-75

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Net periodic benefit costs are determined on an actuarial basis
    and are included in  Salaries and employee benefits
    expense  in the consolidated statements of income. The
    following table displays components of our net periodic benefit
    costs for our qualified and nonqualified pension plans and our
    post-retirement Health Care Plan for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

Prior service costs, which are changes in benefit obligations
    due to plan amendments, are amortized over the average remaining
    service period for active employees for our pension plans and
    prior to the full eligibility date for the other postretirement
    Health Care Plan. Amortization of prior service costs and
    unrecognized gains or losses are included in the net periodic
    benefit costs in  Salaries and employee benefits
    expense  in the consolidated statements of income.

Contributions to the qualified pension plan increase the plan
    assets while contributions to the unfunded plans are made to
    fund current period benefit payments. We were not required to
    make minimum contributions to our qualified pension plan for the
    years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 since we met the
    minimum funding requirements as prescribed by ERISA. However, we
    made discretionary contributions to our qualified pension plan
    of $121 million and $80 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We also made a
    discretionary contribution to our qualified pension plan of
    $37 million in 2005.

F-76

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table displays the status of our pension and
    post-retirement plans as of December 31, 2004 and 2003.

F-77

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Actuarial gains or losses are annual changes in the amount of
    either the benefit obligation or the market-related value of
    plan assets resulting from experience different from that
    assumed or from changes in assumptions.

The following table displays information pertaining to the
    projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and
    fair value of plan assets for our pension plans as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003.

Our current funding policy is to contribute an amount at least
    equal to the minimum required contribution under ERISA as well
    as to maintain a 105% current liability funded status as of
    January 1 of every year. The plan assets of our funded qualified
    pension plan were greater than our accumulated benefit
    obligation by $103 million and $28 million as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The pension and postretirement benefit amounts recognized in the
    consolidated financial statements are determined on an actuarial
    basis using several different assumptions that are measured at
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. The following table
    displays the actuarial assumptions for our principal plans used
    in determining the net periodic benefit expense in the
    consolidated statements of income for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and the net prepaid
    (liability) in the consolidated balance sheets as of
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

As of December 31, 2004, the effect of a 1% increase in the
    assumed health care cost trend rate would increase the
    accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by
    $4 million, while a 1% decrease would decrease the
    accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by a comparable
    $4 million. There would be no change on the net periodic
    postretirement benefit cost from a 1% change in either direction.

We review our pension and postretirement benefit plan
    assumptions on an annual basis. We calculate the net periodic
    benefit expense each year based on assumptions established at
    the end of the previous calendar year.

F-78

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In determining our net periodic benefit costs, we assess the
    discount rate to be used in the annual actuarial valuation of
    our pension and postretirement benefit obligations at year-end.
    We consider the current yields on high-quality, corporate
    fixed-income debt instruments with maturities corresponding to
    the expected duration of our benefit obligations and supported
    by cash flow matching analysis based on expected cash flows
    specific to the characteristics of our plan participants, such
    as age and gender. As of December 31, 2004, we reduced the
    discount rate used to determine our accumulated projected
    benefit obligation by 50 basis points to 5.75% to reflect a
    corresponding rate reduction in corporate-fixed income debt
    instruments. We also assess the long-term rate of return on plan
    assets for our qualified pension plan. The return on asset
    assumption reflects our expectations for plan-level returns over
    a term of approximately seven to ten years. Given the
    longer-term nature of the assumption and a stable investment
    policy, it may or may not change from year to year. However, if
    longer-term market cycles or other economic developments impact
    the global investment environment, or asset allocation changes
    are made, we may adjust our assumption accordingly. The expected
    long-term rate of return on plan assets for 2004 remained
    unchanged from the 2003 rate of 7.5% because of the stability of
    the investment market and our asset allocations. We used an
    estimated long-term rate of return of 8.5% in 2002. Changes in
    assumptions used in determining pension and postretirement
    benefit plan expense did not have a material effect in the
    consolidated statements of income for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 or 2002.

The fair value allocation of our qualified pension plan assets
    on a weighted-average basis as of December 31, 2004 and
    2003, and the target allocation, by asset category, are
    displayed below.

Given the diversity of our average employee age, gender and
    other characteristics, our investment strategy is to diversify
    our plan assets across a number of investments to reduce our
    concentration risk and maintain an asset allocation that allows
    us to meet current and future benefit obligations. With the goal
    of diversification, the assets of the qualified pension plan
    consist primarily of exchange-listed stocks, the majority of
    which are held in a passively managed index fund. We also invest
    in actively managed equity portfolios, which are restricted from
    investing in shares of our common or preferred stock, and an
    enhanced-index intermediate duration fixed income account. In
    addition, the plan holds liquid short-term investments that
    provide for monthly pension payments, plan expenses and, from
    time to time, may represent uninvested contributions or
    reallocation of plan assets. Our asset allocation policy
    provides for a larger equity weighting than many companies
    because our active employee base is relatively young, and we
    have a relatively small number of retirees currently receiving
    benefits, both of which suggest a longer investment horizon and
    consequently a higher risk tolerance level. Management
    periodically assesses our asset allocation to assure it is
    consistent with our plan objectives.

The table below displays the benefits we expect to pay in each
    of the next five years and subsequent five years for our pension
    plans and postretirement plan. The expected benefits are based
    on the same assumptions used to measure our benefit obligation
    as of December 31, 2004. In December 2003, the Medicare
    Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003
    (the  Act ) was signed into law. The Act introduces a
    prescription drug benefit under Medicare (Medicare
    Part D) as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of
    retiree health care plans that provides a benefit that is at
    least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. We are
    entitled to a subsidy under the Act, which reduces the
    accumulated postretirement benefit obligation attributed

F-79

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

to past service and the net periodic postretirement benefit cost
    for the current period. We adopted FASB Staff Position
     No. 106-2, 
      Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
    Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
    2003   ( FSP 106-2 ) prospectively as of
    July 1, 2004. The expected subsidy reduced the accumulated
    postretirement benefit obligation by $24 million and net
    periodic cost by $3 million as compared with the amount
    calculated without considering the effects of the subsidy. The
    Act s impact on expected benefit payments under FSP 106-2
    is also displayed in the table below.

Defined
    Contribution Plans   

Retirement
    Savings Plan  

The Retirement Savings Plan is a defined contribution plan that
    includes both a 401(k) before-tax feature and a regular
    after-tax feature. Under the plan, eligible employees may
    allocate investment balances to a variety of investment options.
    We match employee contributions up to 3% of base salary in cash
    (maximum of $6,150 for 2004, $6,000 for 2003 and $6,000 for
    2002). For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
    2002, the maximum employee contribution as established by the
    IRS was $13,000, $12,000 and $11,000, respectively, with
    additional  catch-up  contributions permitted for
    participants aged 50 and older of $3,000, $2,000 and $1,000,
    respectively. Participants vest in our contributions beginning
    at two years of participation and become fully vested after five
    years of participation. There was no option to invest directly
    in our common stock for the years ended December 31, 2004,
    2003 and 2002. We recorded expense of $13 million,
    $11 million and $11 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, as
     Salaries and employee benefits expense  in the
    consolidated statements of income.

Employee
    Stock Ownership Plan  

We have an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ) for
    eligible employees who are regularly scheduled to work at least
    1,000 hours in a calendar year. Participation is not
    available to participants in the Executive Pension Plan. Under
    the plan, we may contribute annually to the ESOP an amount up to
    4% of the aggregate eligible salary for all participants at the
    discretion of the Board or based on achievement of defined
    corporate goals as determined by the Board of Directors. We may
    contribute either shares of Fannie Mae common stock or cash to
    purchase Fannie Mae common stock. When contributions are made in
    stock, the per share price is determined using the average high
    and low market prices on the day preceding the contribution.
    Compensation cost is measured as the fair value of the shares or
    cash contributed to, or to be contributed to, the ESOP. We
    record these contributions as salaries and employee benefits
    expense in the consolidated statements of income. Expense
    recorded in connection with the ESOP was $9 million,
    $9 million and $8 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, based on
    actual contributions of 2% of salary for each of the reported
    years. The fair value of unearned ESOP shares, which represents
    the fair value of common shares issued or treasury shares sold
    to the ESOP, was $2 million as of both December 31,
    2004 and 2003.

Participants are 100% vested in their ESOP accounts either upon
    attainment of age 65 or five years of service. Employees
    who are at least 55 years of age, and have at least
    10 years of participation in the ESOP, may qualify to
    diversify vested ESOP shares by rolling over all or a portion of
    the value of their ESOP account

F-80

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

into investment funds available under the Retirement Savings
    Plan without losing the tax-deferred status of the value of the
    ESOP.

Participants are immediately vested in all dividends paid on the
    shares of Fannie Mae common stock allocated to their account.
    Unless employees elect to receive the dividend in cash, ESOP
    dividends are automatically reinvested in Fannie Mae common
    stock within the ESOP. If the employee does elect to receive the
    dividend in cash, the dividends are accrued upon declaration and
    are distributed in February for the four previous quarters
    pursuant to the employee s election. Shares held but not
    allocated to participants who forfeited their shares prior to
    vesting are used to reduce our future contributions. ESOP shares
    are a component of our weighted shares outstanding for purposes
    of our EPS calculations, except unallocated shares which are not
    treated as outstanding until they are committed to be released
    for allocation to employee accounts. All cash contributions are
    held in a trust managed by the plan trustee and are invested in
    Fannie Mae common stock.

The following table displays the ESOP activity for the years
    ended December 31, 2004 and 2003.

Through the second quarter of 2004, we disclosed only two
    segments, Portfolio Investment and Credit Guaranty. Previously,
    we aggregated the Single-Family Credit Guaranty and the HCD
    operating segments into a single Credit Guaranty reportable
    business segment. SFAS No. 131 requires segmentation
    based on the structure of the organization as evidenced by the
    review of operating results by the chief operating decision
    maker. We have determined that these operating segments should
    not have been aggregated because our chief operating decision
    maker did not review the operating results on a combined basis.
    These segments also did not meet certain other criteria
    necessary for aggregation, such as a similar nature of products
    and services and economic characteristics.

Additionally, management reviewed operating results on a basis
    (referred to as  Core ) that was not consistent with
    GAAP. Core financial statements were prepared by replacing
    certain derivative expenses based upon changes in fair value,
    with amortization expenses related to the initial cost of the
    derivatives. Our segment allocation methodologies were also
    based upon Core-based financial statements. As a result of the
    impact of restating the consolidated financial statements and
    the elimination of hedge accounting (see Note 1),
    Core-based financial statements are no longer meaningful, as
    there are no longer any adjustments needed to account for the
    effects of hedge accounting, and Core financials are no longer
    used by management to operate the business. Therefore, our
    segment reporting is prepared and presented in accordance with
    GAAP and consistent with the consolidated statements of income.

As such, prior period segment information has been restated for
    the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 and
    disaggregated into three segments. These three reportable
    segments are: Single-Family Credit Guaranty, HCD and Capital
    Markets (formerly named the  Portfolio Investment 
    segment). We use these three segments to generate revenue and
    manage business risk and each segment is based on the type of
    business activities it performs. These activities are discussed
    below.

Single-Family Credit Guaranty.   Our
    Single-Family Credit Guaranty segment works with our lender
    customers to securitize single-family mortgage loans into Fannie
    Mae MBS and to facilitate the purchase of single-family mortgage
    loans for our mortgage portfolio. Our Single-Family Credit
    Guaranty segment has responsibility for managing our credit risk
    exposure relating to the single-family Fannie Mae MBS held by
    third parties (such as lenders, depositories and global
    investors), as well as the single-family mortgage loans and
    single-family Fannie Mae MBS held in our mortgage portfolio. Our
    Single-Family Credit Guaranty segment also has

F-81

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

responsibility for pricing the credit risk of the single-family
    mortgage loans we purchase for our mortgage portfolio. Revenues
    in the segment are derived primarily from the guaranty fees the
    segment receives as compensation for assuming the credit risk on
    the mortgage loans underlying single-family Fannie Mae MBS and
    on the single-family mortgage loans held in our portfolio. The
    primary source of profits (losses) for the Single-Family Credit
    Guaranty segment is the difference between the guaranty fees
    earned and the costs of providing this service, including
    credit-related losses.

Housing and Community Development.   Our HCD
    segment helps to expand the supply of affordable and market-rate
    rental housing in the United States primarily by:
    (i) working with our lender customers to securitize
    multifamily mortgage loans into Fannie Mae MBS and to facilitate
    the purchase of multifamily mortgage loans for our mortgage
    portfolio; and (ii) making investments in rental and
    for-sale housing projects, including investments in rental
    housing that qualify for federal low-income housing tax credits.
    Our HCD segment has responsibility for managing our credit risk
    exposure relating to the multifamily Fannie Mae MBS held by
    third parties, as well as the multifamily mortgage loans and
    multifamily Fannie Mae MBS held in our mortgage portfolio.
    Revenues in the segment are derived from a variety of sources,
    including the guaranty fees the segment receives as compensation
    for assuming the credit risk on the mortgage loans underlying
    multifamily Fannie Mae MBS and on the multifamily mortgage loans
    held in our portfolio, transaction fees associated with the
    multifamily business and bond credit enhancement fees. In
    addition, HCD s investments in housing projects eligible
    for the low-income housing tax credit and other investments
    generate both tax credits and net operating losses that reduce
    our federal income tax liability. While the Multifamily Credit
    Guaranty business is similar to our Single-Family Credit
    Guaranty business, neither the economic return nor the nature of
    the credit risk are similar to those of Single-Family Credit
    Guaranty.

Capital Markets.   Our Capital Markets segment
    manages our investment activity in mortgage loans and
    mortgage-related securities, and has responsibility for managing
    our assets and liabilities and our liquidity and capital
    positions. We fund mortgage loan and mortgage-related securities
    purchases by issuing debt in the global capital markets. The
    Capital Markets segment also has responsibility for managing our
    interest rate risk. The Capital Markets segment generates income
    primarily from the difference, or spread, between the yield on
    the mortgage assets we own and the cost of the debt we issue in
    the global capital markets to fund these assets.

Our segment financials include directly attributable revenues
    and expenses and estimations of apportioned overhead. We
    allocate capital to our segments using OFHEO minimum capital
    requirements for each segment adjusted for over- or
    under-capitalization. The Single-Family Credit Guaranty and HCD
    segments charge the Capital Markets segment a guaranty fee for
    managing the credit risk on most mortgage assets held by the
    Capital Markets segment. All inter-segment revenue and expense
    items are eliminated and, therefore, reconciling adjustments to
    the consolidated results are not required.

F-82

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table displays our segment results for the years
    ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

(1)   

Includes cost of capital charge.

(2)   

Includes intercompany guaranty fee
    revenue (expense) of $1.0 billion allocated to
    Single-Family Credit Guaranty and HCD from Capital Markets for
    absorbing the credit risk on mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS
    held in our portfolio.

F-83

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)   

Includes cost of capital charge.

(2)   

Includes intercompany guaranty fee
    revenue (expense) of $1.0 billion allocated to
    Single-Family Credit Guaranty and HCD from Capital Markets for
    absorbing the credit risk on mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS
    held in our portfolio.

F-84

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)   

Includes cost of capital charge.

(2)   

Includes intercompany guaranty fee
    revenue (expense) of $829 million allocated to
    Single-Family Credit Guaranty and HCD from Capital Markets for
    absorbing the credit risk on mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS
    held in our portfolio.

The following table displays total assets by segment as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003.

We operate our business solely in the United States and
    accordingly, we do not generate any revenue from or have assets
    in geographic locations other than the United States.

16.    

Regulatory
    Capital Requirements  

The Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness
    Act of 1992 (the  1992 Act ) established minimum
    capital, critical capital and risk-based capital requirements
    for us. Based upon these requirements, OFHEO classifies us as
    either adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly
    undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. We are required
    by federal statute to meet the minimum, critical and risk-based
    capital standards to be classified as adequately capitalized.

The minimum capital and critical capital standards are
    calculated by determining whether our core capital equals or
    exceeds the minimum capital requirement or the lower critical
    capital requirement, respectively. Core capital is defined by
    OFHEO and represents the sum of the stated value of our
    outstanding common stock (common stock less treasury stock), the
    stated value of our outstanding non-cumulative perpetual
    preferred stock, our
     paid-in-capital 
    and our retained earnings, as determined in accordance with
    GAAP. The minimum capital standard is generally equal to the sum
    of: (i) 2.50% of on-balance sheet assets; (ii) 0.45%
    of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding Fannie Mae MBS
    held by third parties; and (iii) up to 0.45% of other off-

F-85

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

balance sheet obligations, which may be adjusted by the Director
    of OFHEO under certain circumstances (see 12 CFR 1750.4 for
    existing adjustments made by the Director of OFHEO). The
    critical capital standard is generally equal to the sum of:
    (i) 1.25% of on-balance sheet assets; (ii) 0.25% of
    the unpaid principal balance of outstanding Fannie Mae MBS held
    by third parties; and (iii) up to 0.25% of other
    off-balance sheet obligations, which may be adjusted by the
    Director of OFHEO under certain circumstances.

OFHEO s risk-based capital standard ties our capital
    requirements to the risk in our book of business, as measured by
    a stress test model. The stress test simulates our financial
    performance over a ten-year period of severe economic conditions
    characterized by both extreme interest rate movements and
    mortgage default rates. Simulation results indicate the amount
    of capital required to survive this prolonged period of economic
    stress absent new business or active risk management action. In
    addition to this amount determined by the stress test, the
    risk-based capital requirement includes an additional 30%
    surcharge to cover unspecified management and operations risks.
    OFHEO sets this threshold quarterly and it is measured against
    total capital, defined in the table below.

The following table displays our regulatory capital
    classification measures as of December 31, 2004 and 2003.

(1)   

Except for required risk-based
    capital amounts, all amounts represent estimates which will be
    resubmitted to OFHEO for their certification. Required
    risk-based capital amounts represent previously announced
    results by OFHEO. OFHEO may determine that results require
    restatement in the future based upon analysis provided by us.

(2)   

The sum of (a) the stated
    value of our outstanding common stock (common stock less
    treasury stock); (b) the stated value of our outstanding
    non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock; (c) our paid-in
    capital; and (d) our retained earnings. Core capital
    excludes AOCI.

(3)   

Generally, the sum of
    (a) 2.50% of on-balance sheet assets; (b) 0.45% of the
    unpaid principal balance of outstanding Fannie Mae MBS held by
    third parties; and (c) up to 0.45% of other off-balance
    sheet obligations, which may be adjusted by the Director of
    OFHEO under certain circumstances (See 12 CFR 1750.4 for
    existing adjustments made by the Director of OFHEO).

(4)   

Defined as the surplus (deficit) of
    core capital over required minimum capital expressed as a
    percentage of required minimum capital.

(5)   

The sum of (a) core capital
    and (b) the total allowance for loan losses and reserve for
    guaranty losses, less (c) the specific loss allowance (that
    is, the allowance required on individually-impaired loans). The
    specific loss allowance totaled $63 million and
    $68 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively.

F-86

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(6)   

Defined as the amount of total
    capital required to be held to absorb projected losses flowing
    from future adverse interest rate and credit risk conditions
    specified by statute (see 12 CFR 1750.13 for conditions),
    plus 30% mandated by statute to cover management and operations
    risk.

(7)   

Generally, the sum of
    (a) 1.25% of on-balance sheet assets; (b) 0.25% of the
    unpaid principal balance of outstanding Fannie Mae MBS held by
    third parties and (c) up to 0.25% of other off-balance
    sheet obligations, which may be adjusted by the Director of
    OFHEO under certain circumstances.

(8)   

Defined as the surplus of core
    capital over critical capital expressed as a percentage of
    critical capital.

Factors that may result in potentially volatile components of
    capital include changes in net income primarily due to changes
    in fair values of derivatives and the size of our balance sheet
    assets, which may vary by marking to market AFS and trading
    securities.

Capital
    Classification   

The 1992 Act requires the Director of OFHEO to determine the
    capital level and classification at least quarterly and to
    report the results to Congress. If OFHEO finds that we fail to
    meet these regulatory capital standards, we become subject to
    certain restrictions and requirements. OFHEO classified us as
    adequately capitalized as of December 31, 2003 and
    significantly undercapitalized as of September 30, 2004 and
    December 31, 2004.

In response to the initial findings from OFHEO s September
    2004 special examination interim report, we entered into the
    September 27, 2004 agreement with OFHEO (the  OFHEO
    Agreement ), which required us to take a series of steps
    with respect to our internal controls, organization and
    staffing, governance, accounting and capital. In accordance with
    the OFHEO Agreement, which, as described below, has since been
    terminated, we were required to obtain prior written approval
    from the Director of OFHEO before engaging in certain capital
    transactions, including any payment made to repurchase, redeem,
    retire or otherwise acquire any of our shares, including share
    repurchases; the calling of any preferred stock; as well as the
    restrictions on dividend payments described below.

As part of the OFHEO Agreement, we pledged to maintain the
    computed minimum capital surplus percentage of 18.5% that we
    reported as of August 31, 2004, and to achieve a targeted
    capital surplus equal to 30% over the statutory required minimum
    capital requirement within 270 days of the agreement. In
    November 2004, pursuant to the OFHEO Agreement, we submitted a
    capital plan to OFHEO for the Director s approval detailing
    how management intended to achieve the 30% surplus requirement,
    including alternative strategies that might be employed in
    response to various market developments.

On December 21, 2004, following the SEC s
    determination that we should restate our financial statements,
    OFHEO classified us as significantly undercapitalized as of
    September 30, 2004 and directed us to submit a capital
    restoration plan that would provide for compliance with our
    statutory minimum capital requirement plus a surplus of 30% over
    the statutory minimum capital requirement. Pursuant to
    OFHEO s directive, we submitted a capital restoration plan
    within 10 days of receiving OFHEO s directive. The
    final form of the capital restoration plan was approved by OFHEO
    in February 2005 and required us to achieve the 30% surplus by
    September 30, 2005. Under the plan, we intended to achieve
    the 30% capital surplus through (i) managing total balance
    sheet asset size by reducing the portfolio principally through
    normal mortgage liquidations in order to limit overall minimum
    capital requirements; and (ii) increasing core capital
    through increasing retained earnings, the December 2004 issuance
    of $5.0 billion of preferred stock, reducing the common
    stock dividend by 50%, and cost-cutting efforts to augment
    capital accumulation. As OFHEO directed, the plan also
    incorporated a formal process of monitoring and reporting to the
    agency on our progress in carrying out the plan.

Dividend
    Restrictions   

During the period that we were considered adequately capitalized
    by OFHEO, approval by the Director of OFHEO was required for any
    dividend payment that would cause our capital to fall below
    specified capital levels. We exceeded the applicable capital
    standard for every quarter since the adoption of these
    requirements in 1992 until OFHEO classified us as significantly
    undercapitalized as of September 30, 2004.

F-87

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

During the period that we were subject to the OFHEO Agreement
    (September 27, 2004 to May 22, 2006), we were required
    to obtain prior written approval from the Director of OFHEO
    before the payment of preferred stock dividends above stated
    contractual rates or, until we reached the targeted capital
    surplus, the payment of common stock dividends in excess of the
    prior quarter s dividends. We must submit a written report
    to the Director of OFHEO after the declaration, but before the
    payment, of any dividend on our common stock. The report shall
    contain specific information on the amount of the dividend, the
    rationale for the payment and the impact on the required capital
    surplus.

During any period in which we defer payment of interest on
    qualifying subordinated debt, we may not declare or pay
    dividends on, or redeem, purchase or acquire, our common stock
    or preferred stock. Our qualifying subordinated debt requires us
    to defer the payment of interest for up to five years if either:
    (i) our core capital is below 125% of our critical capital
    requirement; or (ii) our core capital is below our minimum
    capital requirement, and the U.S. Secretary of the
    Treasury, acting on our request, exercises his or her
    discretionary authority pursuant to Section 304(c) of the
    Charter Act to purchase our debt obligations. To date, no
    triggering events have occurred that would require us to defer
    interest payments on our qualifying subordinated debt.

Compliance
    with Agreements   

OFHEO has classified us as adequately capitalized as of
    March 31, 2005 and for all quarterly periods thereafter
    through June 30, 2006. In addition, OFHEO announced on
    November 1, 2005 that we achieved the 30% surplus over
    minimum capital as of September 30, 2005, as required by
    OFHEO. Because we have not yet prepared audited financial
    statements for any period after December 31, 2004,
    OFHEO s capital classifications for periods after
    December 31, 2004 are based on our estimates of our
    financial condition as of such periods and remain subject to
    revision.

On September 1, 2005, we entered into an agreement with
    OFHEO under which it regulates certain financial risk management
    and disclosure commitments designed to enhance market
    discipline, liquidity and capital. Pursuant to this agreement
    with OFHEO, we agreed to issue qualifying subordinated debt,
    rated by at least two nationally recognized statistical rating
    organizations, in a quantity such that the sum of our total
    capital plus the outstanding balance of our qualifying
    subordinated debt equals or exceeds the sum of:
    (i) outstanding Fannie Mae MBS held by third parties times
    0.45%; and (ii) total on-balance sheet assets times 4%. We
    must also take reasonable steps to maintain sufficient
    outstanding subordinated debt to promote liquidity and reliable
    market quotes on market values. Every six months, commencing
    January 1, 2006, we are required to submit, and have
    submitted, to OFHEO a subordinated debt management plan that
    includes any issuance plans for the upcoming six months, which
    is subject to OFHEO s approval and is required to comply
    with our commitment regarding qualifying subordinated debt
    issuance requirements. In addition, we are required to provide
    periodic public disclosures on our risks and risk management
    practices and will inform OFHEO of the disclosures. These
    disclosures include: subordinated debt disclosures, liquidity
    management disclosures, interest rate risk disclosures, credit
    risk disclosures and risk rating disclosures.

On May 23, 2006, we agreed to the issuance of a consent
    order by OFHEO (the  OFHEO Consent Order ), which
    superseded and terminated the OFHEO Agreement and resolved all
    matters addressed by OFHEO s interim and final reports of
    its special examination. According to the OFHEO Consent Order,
    we agreed to the following restrictions relating to our capital
    activity in addition to the restrictions set forth in the
    Charter Act:

We must continue our commitment to maintain a 30% capital
    surplus over our statutory minimum capital requirement until
    such time as the Director of OFHEO determines that the
    requirement should be modified or expire, considering factors
    such as resolution of accounting and internal control issues.

While the capital restoration plan is in effect, we must seek
    the approval of the Director of OFHEO before engaging in any
    transaction that could have the effect of reducing our capital
    surplus below an amount equal to 30% more than our statutory
    minimum capital requirement.

We must submit a written report to OFHEO detailing the rationale
    and process for any proposed capital distribution before making
    the distribution.

F-88

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

We are not permitted to increase our net mortgage portfolio
    assets above the amount shown in the minimum capital report to
    OFHEO as of December 31, 2005 ($727.75 billion),
    except under limited circumstances at the discretion of OFHEO.
    Net mortgage portfolio assets are defined as mortgage loans and
    securities net of
     mark-to-market 
    adjustments for
     available-for-sale 
    securities, allowance for loan losses, and unamortized premiums
    and discounts. We will be subject to this limitation on
    portfolio growth until the Director of OFHEO has determined that
    expiration of the limitation is appropriate in light of
    information regarding: capital; market liquidity issues; housing
    goals; risk management improvements; outside auditor s
    opinion that the consolidated financial statements present
    fairly in all material respects the financial condition of the
    company; receipt of an unqualified opinion from an outside audit
    firm that our internal controls are effective pursuant to
    section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; or other
    relevant information.

We are in compliance with the OFHEO Consent Order as of the date
    of this filing.

The following table displays preferred stock outstanding as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003.

F-89

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

We are authorized to issue up to 200 million shares of
    preferred stock, in one or more series. Each series of our
    preferred stock has no par value, is non-participating, is
    nonvoting and has a liquidation preference equal to the stated
    value per share. Each series has an equal liquidation preference
    to each other, with the exception of the Convertible
    Series 2004-1 Preferred Stock, which has a liquidation
    preference of $100,000 per share. None of our preferred stock is
    convertible into or exchangeable for any of our other stock or
    obligations, with the exception of the Convertible
     Series 2004-1 
    issued in December 2004.

Shares of the Convertible
     Series 2004-1 
    Preferred Stock are convertible at any time, at the option of
    the holders, into shares of Fannie Mae common stock at a
    conversion price of $94.31 per share of common stock
    (equivalent to a conversion rate of 1,060.3329 shares of
    common stock for each share of
     Series 2004-1 
    Preferred Stock). The conversion price is adjustable, as
    necessary, to maintain the stated conversion rate into common
    stock.

Holders of preferred stock are entitled to receive
    non-cumulative, quarterly dividends when, and if, declared by
    our Board of Directors, but have no right to require redemption
    of any shares of preferred stock. Payment of dividends on
    preferred stock is not mandatory, but has priority over payment
    of dividends on common stock, which are also declared by the
    Board of Directors. If dividends on the preferred stock are not
    paid or set aside for payment for a given dividend period,
    dividends may not be paid on our common stock for that period.
    For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
    dividends paid on preferred stock were $165 million,
    $150 million and $98 million, respectively. Excluding
    Series J for which the Board of Directors declared a
    dividend on December 4, 2006 payable on December 31,
    2006, from January 1, 2005 through December 5, 2006,
    all declared quarterly dividend payments on outstanding series
    of preferred stock have been paid.

After a specified period, we have the option to redeem preferred
    stock at its redemption price plus the dividend (whether or not
    declared) for the then-current period accrued to, but excluding,
    the date of redemption. The redemption price is equal to the
    stated value for all issues of preferred stock except
    Series O, which has a redemption price of $50 to $52.50
    depending on the year of redemption, and Convertible
     Series 2004-1, 
    which has a redemption price of $105,000 per share. We
    redeemed all 7.5 million shares of our outstanding
    Series B preferred stock on February 28, 2002 and all
    5 million shares of our outstanding Series C preferred
    stock on July 31, 2002. From January 1, 2005 through
    December 5, 2006, we made no redemptions of any outstanding
    series of preferred stock.

All of our preferred stock, except those of Series D, E, O
    and the Convertible
     Series 2004-1, 
    are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

18.    

Concentrations
    of Credit Risk  

Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of customers
    and counterparties engage in similar activities or have similar
    economic characteristics that make them susceptible to similar
    changes in industry conditions, which could affect their ability
    to meet their contractual obligations. Concentrations of credit
    risk exist among single-family and multifamily borrowers,
    mortgage insurers, mortgage servicers, derivative counterparties
    and parties associated with our off-balance sheet transactions.
    Concentrations for each of these groups are discussed below.

Single-Family Loan Borrowers.   Regional
    economic conditions affect a borrower s ability to repay
    his or her mortgage loan and the property value underlying the
    loan. Geographic concentrations increase the exposure of our
    portfolio to changes in credit risk. Single-family borrowers are
    primarily affected by home price appreciation and low interest
    rates. The geographic dispersion of our Single-Family Credit
    Guaranty business has been consistently diversified over the
    three years ended December 31, 2004, with our largest
    exposure in the Western region of the United States, which
    represented 26% of our single-family conventional mortgage
    credit book of business. No region or state experienced negative
    home price growth over this three-year period. Except for
    California, where 18% and 19% of the gross unpaid principal
    balance of our conventional single-family mortgage loans held or
    securitized in Fannie Mae MBS as of December 31, 2004 and
    2003, respectively, were located, no other significant
    concentrations existed in any state.

F-90

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

To manage credit risk and comply with legal requirements, we
    typically require primary mortgage insurance or other credit
    enhancements if the current LTV ratio (i.e., the ratio of the
    unpaid principal balance of a loan to the current value of the
    property that serves as collateral) of a single-family
    conventional mortgage loan is greater than 80% when the loan is
    delivered to us. We may also require credit enhancements if the
    original LTV ratio of a single-family conventional mortgage loan
    is less than 80% when the loan is delivered to us.

Multifamily Loan Borrowers.   Numerous
    factors affect a multifamily borrower s ability to repay
    his or her loan and the property value underlying the loan. The
    most significant factor affecting credit risk is rental vacancy
    rates for the mortgaged property. Vacancy rates vary among
    geographic regions of the United States. The average mortgage
    values for multifamily loans are significantly larger than that
    for single-family borrowers and therefore individual defaults
    for multifamily borrowers can be more significant to us.
    However, these loans, while individually large, represent a
    small percentage of our total loan portfolio. Our multifamily
    geographic concentrations have been consistently diversified
    over the three years ended December 31, 2004, with our
    largest exposure in the Western region of the United States,
    which represented 35% of our multifamily mortgage credit book of
    business. Except for California, where $32.3 billion and
    $33.3 billion, or 28% and 31%, of the gross unpaid
    principal balance of our multifamily mortgage loans held or
    securitized in Fannie Mae MBS as of December 31, 2004 and
    2003, respectively, were located, no other significant
    concentrations existed in any state.

As part of our multifamily risk management activities, we
    perform detailed loss reviews that evaluate borrower and
    geographic concentrations, lender qualifications, counterparty
    risk, property performance and contract compliance. We generally
    require servicers to submit periodic property operating
    information and condition reviews so that we may monitor the
    performance of individual loans. We use this information to
    evaluate the credit quality of our portfolio, identify potential
    problem loans and initiate appropriate loss mitigation
    activities.

The following table displays the regional geographic
    distribution of single-family and multifamily loans in portfolio
    and those loans held or securitized in Fannie Mae MBS as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003.

(1)   

Midwest includes IL, IN, IA, MI,
    MN, NE, ND, OH, SD and WI; Northeast includes CT, DE, ME, MA,
    NH, NJ, NY, PA, PR, RI, VT and VI; Southeast includes AL, DC,
    FL, GA, KY, MD, NC, MS, SC, TN, VA and WV; Southwest includes
    AZ, AR, CO, KS, LA, MO, NM, OK, TX and UT; West includes AK, CA,
    GU, HI, ID, MT, NV, OR, WA and WY.

(2)   

Includes the portion of our
    conventional single-family mortgage credit book for which we
    have more detailed loan-level information. Excludes non-Fannie
    Mae mortgage-related securities backed by single-family mortgage
    loans and credit enhancements on single-family mortgage loans.

(3)   

Includes mortgage loans in our
    portfolio, credit enhancements and outstanding Fannie Mae MBS
    (excluding Fannie Mae MBS backed by non-Fannie Mae
    mortgage-related securities) where we have more detailed
    loan-level information.

F-91

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Mortgage Insurers.   The primary credit risk
    associated with mortgage insurers is that they will fail to
    fulfill their obligations to reimburse us for claims under
    insurance policies. We were the beneficiary of primary mortgage
    insurance coverage on $285.4 billion and
    $308.8 billion of single-family loans held or securitized
    in Fannie Mae MBS as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively. Seven mortgage insurance companies, all rated AA
    (or its equivalent) or higher by Standard &
    Poor s, Moody s or Fitch, provided approximately 99%
    of the total coverage as of December 31, 2004 and 2003.

Mortgage Servicers.   The primary risk
    associated with mortgage servicers is that they will fail to
    fulfill their servicing obligations. Mortgage servicers collect
    mortgage and escrow payments from borrowers, pay taxes and
    insurance costs from escrow accounts, monitor and report
    delinquencies, and perform other required activities on our
    behalf. A servicing contract breach could result in credit
    losses for us, and we could incur the cost of finding a
    replacement servicer, which could be substantial for loans that
    require a special servicer. Our ten largest single-family
    mortgage servicers serviced 71% and 69% of our single-family
    mortgage credit book of business as of December 31, 2004
    and 2003, respectively. Our ten largest multifamily mortgage
    servicers serviced 67% of our multifamily mortgage credit book
    of business as of both December 31, 2004 and 2003.

Derivative Counterparties.   The primary credit
    exposure we have on a derivative transaction is that a
    counterparty might default on payments due. Additionally, we may
    need to replace the derivative counterparty with a different
    counterparty at a higher cost.

We typically manage credit risk by contracting with experienced
    counterparties that are rated A (or its equivalent) or better,
    spreading the credit risk among many counterparties and placing
    contractual limits on the amount of unsecured credit extended to
    any single counterparty. We enter into master netting
    arrangements that provide for netting of amounts due to us and
    amounts due to counterparties under those agreements, which
    reduces our exposure to a single counterparty in the event of
    default.

Additionally, we require collateral in specified instances to
    limit our counterparty credit risk exposure. We have a
    collateral management policy with provisions for requiring
    collateral on interest rate and foreign currency derivative
    contracts in net gain positions based upon the
    counterparty s credit rating. The collateral includes cash,
    U.S. Treasury securities, agency debt and agency
    mortgage-related securities. A third-party custodian holds for
    us all of the collateral posted to us and monitors the value on
    a daily basis. We monitor credit exposure on our derivatives
    daily by valuing them using internal pricing models and dealer
    quotes and make collateral calls daily, as necessary. The table
    below displays the credit exposure on outstanding risk
    management derivatives by counterparty credit ratings and
    notional amount by counterparty as of December 31, 2004 and
    2003.

F-92

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)   

We manage collateral requirements
    based on the lower credit rating of the legal entity as issued
    by Standard & Poor s ( S ) and
    Moody s. The credit rating reflects the equivalent S&P
    rating for any ratings based on Moody s scale.

(2)   

Includes MBS options, mortgage
    insurance contracts and swap credit enhancements accounted for
    as derivatives.

(3)   

Represents the exposure to credit
    loss on derivative instruments, which is estimated by
    calculating the cost, on a present value basis, to replace all
    outstanding contracts in a gain position. Derivative gains and
    losses with the same counterparty are presented net where a
    legal right of offset exists under an enforceable master netting
    agreement. This table excludes mortgage commitments accounted
    for as derivatives.

(4)   

Represents the collateral held as
    of December 31, 2004 and 2003 adjusted for the collateral
    transferred subsequent to December 31 based on credit loss
    exposure limits on derivative instruments as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003. Settlement dates vary by
    counterparty and range from one to three business days following
    the credit loss exposure valuation dates of December 31,
    2004 and 2003. The value of the collateral is reduced in
    accordance with counterparty agreements to help ensure recovery
    of any loss through the disposition of the collateral. We posted
    non-cash collateral of $56 million and $301 million
    related to our counterparties credit exposure to us as of
    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

As of December 31, 2004, all of our interest rate and
    foreign currency derivative transactions, consisting of
    $454 million net collateral exposure and
    $689.4 billion notional amount, were with counterparties
    rated A or better by S&P and Moody s. To reduce our
    credit risk concentrations, our interest rate and foreign
    currency derivative instruments were diversified among 23
    counterparties as of December 31, 2004. Of the
    $88 million in other derivatives as of December 31,
    2004, approximately 98% of the net exposure consisted of
    mortgage insurance contracts, which were all with counterparties
    rated better than A by any of S&P, Moody s or Fitch. As
    of December 31, 2004, the largest net exposure to a single
    interest rate and foreign currency counterparty was with a
    counterparty rated AA, that represented approximately
    $70 million, or 13%, of our total net exposure of
    $542 million.

As of December 31, 2003, all of our interest rate and
    foreign currency derivative transactions, consisting of
    $392 million of our net collateral exposure and
    $1.0 trillion notional amount, were with counterparties
    rated A or better by S&P and Moody s. To reduce our
    credit risk concentrations, our interest rate and foreign
    currency derivative instruments were diversified among 23
    counterparties as of December 31, 2003. Of the
    $103 million in other derivatives as of December 31,
    2003, over 99% of the net exposure consisted of mortgage
    insurance contracts, which were all with counterparties rated
    better than A by any of S&P, Moody s or Fitch. As of
    December 31, 2003, the largest net exposure to a single
    interest rate and foreign currency counterparty was with a
    counterparty rated AA, that represented approximately
    $102 million, or 21%, of our total net exposure of
    $495 million.

Parties Associated with our Off-Balance Sheet
    Transactions.   We enter into financial instrument
    transactions that create off-balance sheet credit risk in the
    normal course of our business. These transactions are designed
    to meet the financial needs of our customers, and manage our
    credit, market or liquidity risks.

We have entered into guaranties that are not recognized in the
    consolidated balance sheets. Our maximum potential exposure
    under these guaranties is $444.5 billion and
    $683.9 billion as of December 31, 2004 and

F-93

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

2003, respectively. In the event that we would be required to
    make payments under these guaranties, we would pursue recovery
    through our right to the collateral backing the underlying loans
    and available credit enhancements that provide a maximum
    coverage of $42.6 billion and $65.6 billion for the
    years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The following table displays the contractual amount of
    off-balance sheet financial instruments as of December 31,
    2004 and 2003. Contractual or notional amounts do not
    necessarily represent the credit risk of the positions.

(1)   

Represents maximum exposure on
    guaranties not reflected in the consolidated balance sheets. See
     Note 8, Financial Guaranties and Master
    Servicing  for maximum exposure associated with guaranties
    reflected in the consolidated balance sheets.

We do not require collateral from our counterparties to secure
    their obligations to us for loan purchase commitments.

19.    

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  

We carry financial instruments at fair value, amortized cost or
    lower of cost or market. Fair value is the amount at which a
    financial instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction
    between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation
    sale. When available, the fair value of our financial
    instruments is based on observable market prices, or market
    prices that we obtain from third parties. Pricing information we
    obtain from third parties is internally validated for
    reasonableness prior to use in the consolidated financial
    statements.

When observable market prices are not readily available, we
    estimate the fair value using market data and model-based
    interpolation using standard models that are widely accepted
    within the industry. Market data includes prices of financial
    instruments with similar maturities and characteristics,
    duration, interest rate yield curves, measures of volatility and
    prepayment rates. If market data needed to estimate fair value
    is not available, we estimate fair value using internally
    developed models that employ a discounted cash flow approach.

These estimates are based on pertinent information available to
    us at the time of the applicable reporting periods. In certain
    cases, fair values are not subject to precise quantification or
    verification and may fluctuate as economic and market factors
    vary, and our evaluation of those factors changes. Although we
    use our best judgment in estimating the fair value of these
    financial instruments, there are inherent limitations in any
    estimation technique. In these cases, any minor change in an
    assumption could result in a significant change in our estimate
    of fair value thereby increasing or decreasing the value of the
    consolidated assets, liabilities, stockholders  equity and
    net income.

The disclosure included herein excludes certain financial
    instruments, such as plan obligations for pension and other
    post-retirement benefits, employee stock option and stock
    purchase plans, and also excludes all non-financial instruments.
    In addition, the disclosure includes off-balance sheet financial
    instruments, including most credit enhancements and commitments
    to purchase multifamily mortgage loans, which are not recorded
    in the consolidated balance sheets. As a result, the following
    presentation of the fair value of our financial assets and
    liabilities does not represent the underlying fair value of the
    total consolidated assets or liabilities.

F-94

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Notes
    to Fair Value of Financial Instruments   

The following discussion summarizes the significant
    methodologies and assumptions we use to estimate the fair values
    of our financial instruments in the preceding table.

Cash and Cash Equivalents  The carrying value of cash
    and cash equivalents is a reasonable estimate of their
    approximate fair value.

Federal Funds Sold and Securities Purchased Under Agreements
    to Resell  The carrying value of our federal funds sold
    and securities purchased under agreements to resell approximates
    the fair value of these instruments due to the short-term nature
    of these assets.

Trading Securities and Available- for-Sale
    Securities  Our investments in securities are recognized
    at fair value in the consolidated financial statements. Fair
    values of securities are based on observable market prices or
    prices obtained from third parties. Details of these estimated
    fair values by type are displayed in  Note 6,
    Investments in Securities. 

Mortgage Loans Held for Sale  HFS loans are reported
    at LOCOM in the consolidated balance sheets. We determine the
    fair value of our mortgage loans based on comparisons to Fannie
    Mae MBS with similar characteristics. Specifically, we use the
    observable market value of our MBS as a base value, from which
    we subtract or add the fair value of the associated guaranty
    asset, guaranty obligation and master servicing arrangements.

Mortgage Loans Held for Investment, net of allowance for loan
    losses  HFI loans are recorded in the consolidated
    balance sheets at the principal amount outstanding, net of
    unamortized premiums and discounts, deferred price adjustments
    and an allowance for loan losses. We determine the fair value of
    our mortgage

F-95

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

loans based on comparisons to Fannie Mae MBS with similar
    characteristics. Specifically, we use the observable market
    value of our MBS as a base value, from which we subtract or add
    the fair value of the associated guaranty asset, guaranty
    obligation and master servicing arrangements.

Derivatives Assets and Liabilities (collectively,
     Derivatives )  Our derivatives and mortgage
    commitment derivatives are recognized in the consolidated
    balance sheets at fair value, taking into consideration the
    effects of any legally enforceable master netting agreements
    that allow us to settle derivative asset and liability positions
    with the same counterparty on a net basis. We use observable
    market prices or market prices obtained from third parties for
    our exchange-traded derivatives. For derivative instruments
    where market prices are not readily available, we estimate fair
    value using model-based interpolation based on direct market
    inputs. Direct market inputs include prices of instruments with
    similar maturities and characteristics, interest rate yield
    curves and measures of interest rate volatility. Details of
    these estimated fair values by type are displayed in
     Note 10, Derivative Instruments. 

Guaranty Assets and Buy-ups  We estimate the fair
    value of guaranty assets based on the present value of expected
    future cash flows of the underlying mortgage assets using
    management s best estimate of certain key assumptions,
    which include prepayment speeds, forward yield curves, and
    discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. These cash
    flows are projected using proprietary prepayment, interest rate,
    and credit risk models. Because the guaranty assets are like an
    interest-only income stream, the projected cash flows from our
    guaranty assets are discounted using interest spreads from a
    representative sample of interest-only trust securities. We
    reduce the spreads on interest-only trusts to adjust for the
    less liquid nature of the guaranty asset. The fair value of the
    guaranty asset as presented in the table above includes the fair
    value of any associated buy-ups, which is estimated in the same
    manner as guaranty assets but are recorded separately as a
    component of  Other assets  in the consolidated
    balance sheets. While the fair value of the guaranty asset
    reflects all guaranty arrangements, the carrying value primarily
    reflects only those arrangements entered into subsequent to our
    adoption of FIN 45 on January 1, 2003.

Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Sold Under Agreements
    to Repurchase  The carrying value of our federal funds
    purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase
    approximate the fair value of these instruments due to the
    short-term nature of these liabilities, exclusive of dollar roll
    transactions.

Short-Term Debt and Long-Term Debt  We estimate the
    fair value of our non-callable debt using the discounted cash
    flow approach based on the Fannie Mae yield curve with an
    adjustment to reflect fair values at the offer side of the
    market. We estimate the fair value of our callable bonds using
    an option adjusted spread ( OAS ) approach using the
    Fannie Mae yield curve and market calibrated volatility. The OAS
    applied to callable bonds approximates market levels where we
    have executed secondary market transactions. For subordinated
    debt, we use third party prices.

Guaranty Obligations  Our estimate of the fair value
    of the guaranty obligation is based on management s
    estimate of the amount that we would be required to pay a third
    party of similar credit standing to assume our obligation. This
    amount is based on the present value of expected cash flows
    using management s best estimates of certain key
    assumptions, which include default and severity rates and a
    market rate of return. While the fair value of the guaranty
    obligation reflects all guaranty arrangements, the carrying
    value primarily reflects only those arrangements entered into
    subsequent to our adoption of FIN 45 on January 1,
    2003.

20.    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

We are party to various types of legal proceedings that are
    subject to many uncertain factors as well as certain future
    lease commitments that are not recorded in the consolidated
    financial statements. Each of these is described below.

Legal
    Contingencies  

Litigation, claims and proceedings of all types are subject to
    many uncertain factors that generally cannot be predicted with
    assurance. This following describes the material legal
    proceedings, examinations and other

F-96

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

matters that: (1) were pending as of December 31, 2004; (2)
    were terminated during the period from the beginning of the
    third quarter of 2004 through the filing of this report; or (3)
    are pending as of the filing of this report. An unfavorable
    outcome in any of these legal proceedings could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations. However, excluding the SEC and OFHEO settlements
    described below, we are unable to reasonably estimate a range of
    possible losses at this time. Accordingly, we have not recorded
    a reserve for any litigation exposures discussed herein. We
    believe we have defenses to the claims in these lawsuits
    described below and intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously.

We are involved in a number of legal and regulatory proceedings
    that arise in the ordinary course of business related to our
    operations, relationships with our sellers and servicers, or
    administrative functions, which include contractual disputes and
    employment-related claims. These cases include legal proceedings
    that arise in connection with properties acquired either through
    foreclosure on properties securing delinquent mortgage loans we
    own or through our receipt of deeds to those properties in lieu
    of foreclosure as well as claims related to possible tort
    liability. In addition, these cases include litigation resulting
    from disputes with lenders concerning their loan origination or
    servicing obligations to us, or can result from disputes
    concerning termination by us (for a variety of reasons) of a
    lender s authority to do business with us as a seller
     and/or 
    servicer.

Pursuant to the provisions of our bylaws and indemnification
    agreements, directors and officers have a right to have their
    reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred in connection with
    any investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding,
    indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law,
    by reason of the fact that such person is or was serving as a
    director or officer of Fannie Mae. Until such time as an
    indemnification determination is made, we are under an
    obligation to advance those fees and expenses. During and
    subsequent to 2004, we advanced the expenses of certain current
    and former officers and directors for the reasonable costs and
    fees incurred by them, as they relate to the OFHEO special
    examination, the Paul Weiss, the U.S. Attorney s Office and
    SEC investigations, and several shareholder and derivative
    lawsuits. None of these amounts were material.

Restatement-Related
    Matters   

In Re
    Fannie Mae Securities Litigation  

Beginning on September 23, 2004, 13 separate complaints
    were filed by holders of our securities against us, as well as
    certain of our former officers, in the U.S. District Court
    for the District of Columbia, the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of New York and other courts. The
    complaints in these lawsuits purport to have been made on behalf
    of a class of plaintiffs consisting of purchasers of Fannie Mae
    securities between April 17, 2001 and September 21,
    2004. The complaints alleged that we and certain of our
    officers, including Franklin D. Raines, J. Timothy Howard and
    Leanne Spencer, made material misrepresentations
     and/or 
    omissions of material fact in violation of the federal
    securities laws. Plaintiffs  claims were based on findings
    contained in OFHEO s September 2004 interim report
    regarding its findings to that date in its special examination
    of our accounting policies, practices and controls.

All of the cases were consolidated
     and/or 
    transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Columbia. A consolidated complaint was filed on March 4,
    2005 against us and former officers Franklin D. Raines, J.
    Timothy Howard and Leanne Spencer. The court entered an order
    naming the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System and State
    Teachers Retirement System of Ohio as lead plaintiffs. The
    consolidated complaint generally made the same allegations as
    the individually-filed complaints, which is that we and certain
    former officers made false and misleading statements in
    violation of the federal securities laws in connection with
    certain accounting policies and practices. More specifically,
    the consolidated complaint alleged that the defendants made
    materially false and misleading statements in violation of
    Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, and SEC
     Rule 10b-5 
    promulgated thereunder, largely with respect to accounting
    statements that were inconsistent with the GAAP requirements
    relating to hedge accounting and the amortization of premiums
    and discounts. Plaintiffs contend that the alleged fraud
    resulted

F-97

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

in artificially inflated prices for our common stock. Plaintiffs
    seek compensatory damages, attorneys  fees, and other fees
    and costs. Discovery commenced in this action following the
    denial of the defendants  motions to dismiss on
    February 10, 2006.

On April 17, 2006, the plaintiffs in the consolidated class
    action filed an amended consolidated complaint against us and
    former officers Franklin D. Raines, J. Timothy Howard and Leanne
    Spencer, that added purchasers of publicly traded call options
    and sellers of publicly traded put options to the putative class
    and sought to extend the end of the putative class period from
    September 21, 2004 to September 27, 2005. We and the
    individual defendants filed motions to dismiss addressing the
    extended class period and the deficiency of the additional
    accounting allegations. On August 14, 2006, while those
    motions were still pending, the plaintiffs filed a second
    amended complaint adding KPMG LLP and Goldman, Sachs &
    Co., Inc. as additional defendants and adding allegations based
    on the May 2006 report issued by OFHEO and the February 2006
    report issued by Paul Weiss. Our answer to the second amended
    complaint is due to be filed on January 8, 2007. Plaintiffs
    filed a motion for class certification on May 17, 2006 that
    is still pending.

In addition, two individual securities cases have been filed by
    institutional investor shareholders in the U.S. District
    Court for the District of Columbia. The first case was filed on
    January 17, 2006 by Evergreen Equity Trust, Evergreen
    Select Equity Trust, Evergreen Variable Annuity Trust and
    Evergreen International Trust against us and the following
    current and former officers and directors: Franklin D. Raines,
    J. Timothy Howard, Leanne Spencer, Thomas P. Gerrity, Anne M.
    Mulcahy, Frederick Malek, Taylor Segue, III, William
    Harvey, Joe K. Pickett, Victor Ashe, Stephen Ashley, Molly
    Bordonaro, Kenneth M. Duberstein, Jamie Gorelick, Manuel Justiz,
    Ann McLaughlin Korologos, Donald Marron, Daniel H. Mudd, H.
    Patrick Swygert and Leslie Rahl.

The second individual securities case was filed on
    January 25, 2006 by 25 affiliates of Franklin Templeton
    Investments against us, KPMG LLP, and all of the following
    current and former officers and directors: Franklin D. Raines,
    J. Timothy Howard, Leanne Spencer, Thomas P. Gerrity, Anne M.
    Mulcahy, Frederick Malek, Taylor Segue, III, William
    Harvey, Joe K. Pickett, Victor Ashe, Stephen Ashley, Molly
    Bordonaro, Kenneth M. Duberstein, Jamie Gorelick, Manuel Justiz,
    Ann McLaughlin Korologos, Donald Marron, Daniel H. Mudd, H.
    Patrick Swygert and Leslie Rahl.

The two related individual securities actions assert various
    federal and state securities law and common law claims against
    us and certain of our current and former officers and directors
    based upon essentially the same alleged conduct as that at issue
    in the consolidated shareholder class action, and also assert
    insider trading claims against certain former officers. Both
    cases seek compensatory and punitive damages, attorneys 
    fees, and other fees and costs. In addition, the Evergreen
    plaintiffs seek an award of treble damages under state law.

On June 29, 2006 and then again on August 14 and 15,
    2006, the individual securities plaintiffs filed first amended
    complaints and then second amended complaints seeking to address
    certain of the arguments made by the defendants in their
    original motions to dismiss and adding additional allegations
    regarding improper accounting practices. On August 17,
    2006, we filed motions to dismiss certain claims and allegations
    of the individual securities plaintiffs  second amended
    complaints. The individual plaintiffs seek to proceed
    independently of the potential class of shareholders in the
    consolidated shareholder class action, but the court has
    consolidated these cases as part of the consolidated shareholder
    class action for pretrial purposes and possibly through final
    judgment.

In Re
    Fannie Mae Shareholder Derivative Litigation  

Beginning on September 28, 2004, ten plaintiffs filed
    twelve shareholder derivative actions in three different federal
    district courts and the Superior Court of the District of
    Columbia on behalf of the company against us (as a nominal
    defendant), and certain of our current and former officers and
    directors. Plaintiffs contend that the defendants purposefully
    misapplied GAAP, maintained poor internal controls, issued a
    false and misleading proxy statement and falsified documents to
    cause our financial performance to appear smooth and stable, and
    that Fannie Mae was harmed as a result. The claims are for
    breaches of the duty of care, breach of fiduciary

F-98

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

duty, waste, insider trading, fraud, gross mismanagement,
    violations of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and unjust enrichment.
    Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, punitive damages,
    attorneys  fees, and other fees, as well as injunctive
    relief related to the adoption by us of certain proposed
    corporate governance policies and internal controls.

All of these individual actions have been consolidated into the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and the
    court entered an order naming Pirelli Armstrong Tire Corporation
    and Wayne County Employees  Retirement System as co-lead
    plaintiffs. A consolidated complaint was filed on
    September 26, 2005. The consolidated complaint named the
    following current and former officers and directors as
    defendants: Franklin Raines, J. Timothy Howard, Thomas P.
    Gerrity, Frederick V. Malek, Joe K. Pickett, Anne M. Mulcahy,
    Daniel H. Mudd, Kenneth M. Duberstein, Stephen B. Ashley, Ann
    Korologos, Donald B. Marron, Leslie Rahl, H. Patrick Swygert and
    John K. Wulff.

When document production commenced in  In Re Fannie Mae
    Securities Litigation , we agreed to simultaneously provide
    our document production from that action to the plaintiffs in
    the shareholder derivative action.

All of the defendants filed motions to dismiss the action on
    December 14, 2005. These motions were fully briefed but not
    ruled upon. In the interim, the plaintiffs filed an amended
    complaint on September 1, 2006, thus mooting the previously
    filed motions to dismiss. Among other things, the amended
    complaint adds Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Goldman,
    Sachs & Co., Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc. and Radian
    Insurance Inc. as defendants, adds allegations concerning the
    nature of certain transactions between these entities and Fannie
    Mae, adds additional allegations from OFHEO s May 2006
    report on its special examination, the Paul Weiss report and
    other additional details. We filed motions to dismiss the first
    amended complaint on October 20, 2006.

In Re
    Fannie Mae ERISA Litigation (formerly David Gwyer v. Fannie
    Mae)  

Three ERISA-based cases have been filed against us, our Board of
    Directors  Compensation Committee, and against the
    following former and current officers and directors: Franklin D.
    Raines, J. Timothy Howard, Daniel H. Mudd, Vincent A. Mai,
    Stephen Friedman, Anne Mulcahy, Ann McLaughlin Korologos, Joe K.
    Pickett, Donald B. Marron, Kathy Gallo and Leanne Spencer.

On October 15, 2004, David Gwyer filed a class action
    complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Columbia. Two additional class action complaints were filed by
    other plaintiffs on May 6, 2005 and May 10, 2005. All
    of these cases were consolidated on May 24, 2005 in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. A
    consolidated complaint was filed on June 15, 2005. The
    plaintiffs in the consolidated ERISA-based lawsuit purport to
    represent a class of participants in our ESOP between
    January 1, 2001 and the present. Their claims are based on
    alleged breaches of fiduciary duty relating to accounting
    matters discussed in our SEC filings and in OFHEO s interim
    report. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages, attorneys 
    fees, and costs, and other injunctive and equitable relief. We
    filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint on
    June 29, 2005. Our motion and all of the other
    defendants  motions to dismiss were fully briefed and
    argued on January 13, 2006. As of the date of this filing,
    these motions are still pending.

Department
    of Labor ESOP Investigation  

In November 2003, the Department of Labor commenced a review of
    our ESOP and Retirement Savings Plan. The Department of Labor
    has concluded its investigation of our Retirement Savings Plan,
    but continues to review the ESOP. We continue to cooperate fully
    in this investigation.

Restatement-Related
    Investigations by U.S. Attorney s Office, OFHEO and
    SEC   

U.S. Attorney s
    Office Investigation  

In October 2004, we were told by the U.S. Attorney s
    Office for the District of Columbia that it was conducting an
    investigation of our accounting policies and practices. In
    August 2006, we were advised by the U.S. Attorney s
    Office for the District of Columbia that it was discontinuing
    its investigation of us and does not plan to file charges
    against us.

F-99

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

OFHEO and
    SEC Settlements  

OFHEO
    Special Examination and Settlement  

In July 2003, OFHEO notified us that it intended to conduct a
    special examination of our accounting policies and internal
    controls, as well as other areas of inquiry. OFHEO began its
    special examination in November 2003 and delivered an interim
    report of its findings in September 2004. On May 23, 2006,
    OFHEO released its final report on its special examination.
    OFHEO s final report concluded that, during the period
    covered by the report (1998 to mid-2004), a large number of our
    accounting policies and practices did not comply with GAAP and
    we had serious problems in our internal controls, financial
    reporting and corporate governance.

Concurrently with OFHEO s release of its final report, we
    entered into comprehensive settlements that resolved open
    matters with OFHEO, as well as with the SEC (described below).
    As part of the OFHEO settlement, we agreed to OFHEO s
    issuance of a consent order. In entering into this settlement,
    we neither admitted nor denied any wrongdoing or any asserted or
    implied finding or other basis for the consent order. Under this
    consent order, in addition to the civil penalty described below,
    we agreed to undertake specified remedial actions to address the
    recommendations contained in OFHEO s final report,
    including actions relating to our corporate governance, Board of
    Directors, capital plans, internal controls, accounting
    practices, public disclosures, regulatory reporting, personnel
    and compensation practices. We also agreed not to increase our
    net mortgage assets above the amount shown in our minimum
    capital report to OFHEO for December 31, 2005
    ($727.75 billion), except in limited circumstances at
    OFHEO s discretion. The consent order superseded and
    terminated both our September 27, 2004 agreement with OFHEO
    and the March 7, 2005 supplement to that agreement, and
    resolved all matters addressed by OFHEO s interim and final
    reports of its special examination. As part of the OFHEO
    settlement, we also agreed to pay a $400 million civil
    penalty, with $50 million payable to the U.S. Treasury
    and $350 million payable to the SEC for distribution to
    shareholders pursuant to the Fair Funds for Investors provision
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Both amounts were paid in
    2006 and were accrued in our 2004 consolidated financial
    statements.

SEC
    Investigation and Settlement  

Following the issuance of the September 2004 interim OFHEO
    report, the SEC informed us that it was commencing an
    investigation into our accounting practices.

Concurrently, at our request, the SEC reviewed our accounting
    practices with respect to hedge accounting and the amortization
    of premiums and discounts, which OFHEO s interim report had
    concluded did not comply with GAAP. On December 15, 2004,
    the SEC s Office of the Chief Accountant announced that it
    had advised us to (1) restate our financial statements
    filed with the SEC to eliminate the use of hedge accounting, and
    (2) evaluate our accounting for the amortization of
    premiums and discounts, and restate our financial statements
    filed with the SEC if the amounts required for correction were
    material. The SEC s Office of the Chief Accountant also
    advised us to reevaluate the GAAP and non-GAAP information that
    we previously provided to investors.

On May 23, 2006, without admitting or denying the
    SEC s allegations, we consented to the entry of a final
    judgment requiring us to pay the civil penalty described above
    and permanently restraining and enjoining us from future
    violations of the anti-fraud, books and records, internal
    controls and reporting provisions of the federal securities
    laws. The settlement, which included the $400 million civil
    penalty described above, resolved all claims asserted against us
    in the SEC s civil proceeding. The final judgment was
    entered by the U.S. District Court of the District of
    Columbia on August 9, 2006.

Other
    Legal Proceedings   

Former
    CEO Arbitration  

On September 19, 2005, Franklin D. Raines, our former
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, initiated arbitration
    proceedings against Fannie Mae before the American Arbitration
    Association. On April 10, 2006, the parties convened an
    evidentiary hearing before the arbitrator. The principal issue
    before the arbitrator was

F-100

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

whether we were permitted to waive a requirement contained in
    Mr. Raines  employment agreement that he provide six
    months notice prior to retiring. On April 24, 2006, the
    arbitrator issued a decision finding that we could not
    unilaterally waive the notice period, and that the effective
    date of Mr. Raines  retirement was June 22, 2005,
    rather than December 21, 2004 (his final day of active
    employment). Under the arbitrator s decision,
    Mr. Raines  election to receive an accelerated,
    lump-sum payment of a portion of his deferred compensation must
    now be honored. Moreover, we must pay Mr. Raines any salary
    and other compensation to which he would have been entitled had
    he remained employed through June 22, 2005, less any
    pension benefits that Mr. Raines received during that
    period. On November 7, 2006, the parties entered into a
    consent award, which partially resolved the issue of amounts due
    Mr. Raines. In accordance with the consent award, we paid
    Mr. Raines $2.6 million on November 17, 2006. By
    agreement, final resolution was deferred until after our
    accounting restatement results were announced. These parties
    will then have sixty days from announcement to either reach an
    agreement or to request additional arbitration proceedings to
    ensue.

In Re
    G-Fees Antitrust Litigation  

Since January 18, 2005, we have been served with 11
    proposed class action complaints filed by single-family
    borrowers that allege that we and Freddie Mac violated the
    Clayton and Sherman Acts and state antitrust and consumer
    protection statutes by agreeing to artificially fix, raise,
    maintain or stabilize the price of the companies  guaranty
    fees. Two of these cases were filed in state courts. The
    remaining cases were filed in federal court. The two state court
    actions were voluntarily dismissed. The federal court actions
    were consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the
    District of Columbia. Plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended
    complaint on August 5, 2005. Plaintiffs in the consolidated
    action seek to represent a class of consumers whose loans
    allegedly  contain a guarantee fee set by  Fannie Mae
    or Freddie Mac between January 1, 2001 and the present. The
    consolidated amended complaint alleges violations of federal and
    state antitrust laws and state consumer protection and other
    laws. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages, treble damages,
    punitive damages, and declaratory and injunctive relief, as well
    as attorneys  fees and costs.

We and Freddie Mac filed a motion to dismiss on October 11,
    2005. The motion to dismiss has been fully briefed and remains
    pending.

Casa Orlando Apartments, Ltd., et al. v. Federal
    National Mortgage Association (formerly known as Medlock
    Southwest Management Corp., et al. v. Federal National
    Mortgage Association) 

We are the subject of a lawsuit in which plaintiffs purport to
    represent a class of multifamily borrowers whose mortgages are
    insured under Sections 221(d)(3), 236 and other sections of
    the National Housing Act and are held or serviced by us. The
    complaint identified as a class low- and moderate-income
    apartment building developers who maintained uninvested escrow
    accounts with us or our servicer. Plaintiffs Casa Orlando
    Apartments, Ltd., Jasper Housing Development Company, and the
    Porkolab Family Trust No. 1 allege that we violated
    fiduciary obligations that they contend we owe to borrowers with
    respect to certain escrow accounts and that we were unjustly
    enriched. In particular, plaintiffs contend that, starting in
    1969, we misused these escrow funds and are therefore liable for
    any economic benefit we received from use of these funds.
    Plaintiffs seek a return of any profits, with accrued interest,
    earned by us related to the escrow accounts at issue, as well as
    attorneys  fees and costs.

The complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
    Eastern District of Texas (Texarkana Division) on June 2,
    2004 and served on us on June 16, 2004. Our motion to
    dismiss and motion for summary judgment were denied on
    March 10, 2005. We filed a partial motion for
    reconsideration of our motion for summary judgment, which was
    denied on February 24, 2006.

Plaintiffs have filed an amended complaint and a motion for
    class certification. A hearing on plaintiffs  motion for
    class certification was held on July 19, 2006, and the
    motion remains pending.

F-101

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Lease
    Commitments  

Certain premises and equipment are leased under agreements that
    expire at various dates through 2029, none of which are capital
    leases. Some of these leases provide for payment by the lessee
    of property taxes, insurance premiums, cost of maintenance and
    other costs. Rental expenses for operating leases were
    $38 million, $39 million and $35 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

The following table displays the future minimum rental
    commitments as of December 31, 2004 for all non-cancelable
    operating leases:

F-102

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

21.    

Selected
    Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)  

2004
    Quarterly Balance Sheets   

The following table displays our unaudited interim condensed
    consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2004,
    June 30, 2004, September 30, 2004 and
    December 31, 2004. As noted in the table, the condensed
    consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2004 and
    June 30, 2004 have been restated from our previously
    reported unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial
    statements.

(1)   

Certain amounts have been
    reclassified to conform to the current condensed consolidated
    balance sheet presentation.

F-103

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

2004
    Quarterly Statements of Income   

The following table displays our unaudited interim condensed
    consolidated statements of income for the quarters ended
    March 31, 2004, June 30, 2004, September 30, 2004
    and December 31, 2004. As noted in the table, the condensed
    consolidated statements of income and earnings per share, for
    the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and June 30, 2004
    have been restated from previously filed unaudited consolidated
    financial statements.

(1)   

Certain amounts have been
    reclassified to conform to the current condensed consolidated
    statement of income presentation.

(2)   

Includes the $400 million
    OFHEO and SEC penalty, $116 million impairment of
    capitalized software and a $317 million impairment of
    securities.

F-104

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

2004
    Quarterly Segment Results   

The following table displays our unaudited segment results for
    the quarters ended March 31, 2004, June 30, 2004,
    September 30, 2004 and December 31, 2004.

(1)   

Includes cost of capital charge.

(2)   

Includes intercompany guaranty fee
    revenue (expense) of $254 million allocated to
    Single-Family Credit Guaranty and HCD from Capital Markets for
    absorbing the credit risk on mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS
    held in our portfolio.

(1)   

Includes cost of capital charge.

(2)   

Includes intercompany guaranty fee
    revenue (expense) of $257 million allocated to
    Single-Family Credit Guaranty and HCD from Capital Markets for
    absorbing the credit risk on mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS
    held in our portfolio.

F-105

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)   

Includes cost of capital charge.

(2)   

Includes intercompany guaranty fee
    revenue (expense) of $260 million allocated to
    Single-Family Credit Guaranty and HCD from Capital Markets for
    absorbing the credit risk on mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS
    held in our portfolio.

(1)   

Includes cost of capital charge.

(2)   

Includes intercompany guaranty fee
    revenue (expense) of $260 million allocated to
    Single-Family Credit Guaranty and HCD from Capital Markets for
    absorbing the credit risk on mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS
    held in our portfolio.

F-106

Table of Contents   

FANNIE
    MAE 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Hurricanes
    Katrina and Rita   

In August and September 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita
    damaged the Gulf Coast. Our exposure to losses as a result of
    Hurricanes Katrina and Rita arises primarily from our guaranty
    of MBS secured by property in the affected areas, our portfolio
    holdings of mortgages and mortgage-related securities secured by
    property in the affected areas, and real estate owned in the
    affected areas. We continue to evaluate the impact to the
    consolidated financial statements as a result of the damage.

Additionally, we instituted mortgage relief provisions designed
    to meet the individual needs of borrowers facing hardship as a
    result of the hurricanes. Our disaster relief provisions allow
    lenders to help borrowers in several ways, including suspending
    or reducing mortgage payments for up to 18 months or more
    and permitting repayment of the amounts deferred over time,
    consistent with provisions included in the trust.

Regulatory
    Capital   

On September 1, 2005, we entered into an agreement with
    OFHEO under which they regulated certain financial risk
    management and disclosure commitments designed to enhance market
    discipline, liquidity and capital. In addition, every six
    months, commencing January 1, 2006, we are required to
    submit, and have submitted, to OFHEO a subordinated debt
    management plan that includes any issuance plans for the
    upcoming six months, which is subject to OFHEO s approval,
    and required to comply with our commitment regarding qualifying
    subordinated debt issuance requirements.

On May 23, 2006, we agreed to the issuance of a consent
    order by OFHEO, which superseded and terminated the
    September 27, 2004 OFHEO agreement and the March 8,
    2005 OFHEO agreement. See  Note 16, Regulatory Capital
    Requirements  for additional information.

Stock
    Repurchase Program   

On May 9, 2006, we announced a stock repurchase program
    under which we may repurchase up to $100 million of Fannie
    Mae shares from non-officer employees. Prior to the creation of
    this employee stock repurchase program, we repurchased shares in
    a limited number of instances relating to financial hardship as
    well as reacquired common stock from employees as payment for
    the cost of option exercises and tax withholding.

Final
    OFHEO Report and Settlements with OFHEO and SEC   

On May 23, 2006, OFHEO issued its final report on its
    special examination of our accounting policies, internal
    controls, financial reporting, corporate governance, and other
    safety and soundness matters. Concurrently with OFHEO s
    release of its final report, we entered into comprehensive
    settlements that resolved open matters with OFHEO and with the
    SEC. As part of the settlements, we agreed to pay
    $400 million civil penalty to the U.S. government,
    with $50 million payable to the U.S. Treasury and
    $350 million payable to the SEC for distribution to
    shareholders pursuant to the Fair Funds for Investors provision
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, both of which were paid in
    2006. See  Note 20, Commitments and
    Contingencies  for additional information.

Increase
    in Common Stock Dividend   

On December 6, 2006, the Board of Directors increased the
    quarterly common stock dividend to $0.40 per share. The Board
    determined that the increased dividend would be effective
    beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, and therefore declared
    a special common stock dividend of $0.14 per share, payable on
    December 29, 2006, to stockholders of record on
    December 15, 2006. This special dividend of $0.14, combined
    with our previously declared dividend of $0.26 paid on
    November 27, 2006, will result in a total common stock
    dividend of $0.40 per share for the fourth quarter of 2006.

F-107

Table of Contents   

CA006

<EX-10.9>
 2
 w26699exv10w9.htm
 EX-10.9

exv10w9 

Exhibit 10.9 

Description of the Elective Deferred Compensation Plan II 

In response to passage of The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Act ), the Board of
Directors of Fannie Mae has taken steps to ensure that the company s deferred compensation plans,
programs, and arrangements comply with new requirements under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Specifically, the Act added a new section to the Internal Revenue Code, Section 409A, which imposes
new requirements on deferred compensation arrangements. Accordingly, on November 16, 2004, Fannie
Mae s Board of Directors authorized and directed the creation of a new elective deferred
compensation plan to comply with Section 409A. We refer to the new plan as the  Elective Deferred
Compensation Plan II. 

Apart from changes required by Section 409A, the terms of the Elective Deferred Compensation Plan
II are modeled on our existing elective deferred compensation plan, which we refer to as the
Elective Deferred Compensation Plan I, a copy of which is incorporated by reference as an exhibit
to our Form 8-K filed on November 22, 2004. The Elective Deferred Compensation Plan II applies to
compensation that is earned after December 31, 2004.

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.18>
 3
 w26699exv10w18.htm
 EX-10.18

exv10w18 

Exhibit
10.18

FANNIE MAE 
STOCK COMPENSATION PLAN OF 1993 

Effective as of May 20, 1993

Amended October 18, 2005

12/05/2005

FANNIE MAE

STOCK COMPENSATION PLAN OF 1993

I. The Plan 

1.1  Purpose.  The purpose of the Fannie Mae Stock Compensation Plan of 1993 is to
promote the success of the Federal National Mortgage Association by providing an additional means
through the grant of Awards to provide officers and employees with stock compensation that is
comparable with compensation for employment with other similar companies in order to attract,
motivate, retain and reward officers and employees; to provide incentives for high levels of
individual performance and improved financial performance; to attract, motivate and retain
experienced and knowledgeable independent directors; and to promote a close identity of interests
between directors, officers, employees and stockholders.

1.2  Definitions. 

The following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:

(1)   Award   shall mean an award of any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted
Stock, Performance Share Award, Stock Bonus, or any other award authorized under Section
1.6, or any combination thereof, whether alternative or cumulative, authorized by and
granted under this Plan.

(2)   Award Date   shall mean the date upon which the Nonmanagement Board or the
Committee, as applicable as determined pursuant to Section 1.3, takes the action granting an
Award or such later date as the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee designates as the Award
Date at the time of granting the Award or, in the case of Awards under Articles VI or VII,
the applicable dates set forth therein.

(3)   Award Document   shall mean any writing, which may be an agreement, setting forth
the terms of an Award that has been granted by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee.

(4)   Award Period   shall mean the period beginning on an Award Date and ending on the
expiration date of such Award.

(5)   Beneficiary   shall mean the person or persons designated by a Participant or
Permitted Transferee in writing to the Benefit Plans Committee to receive the benefits
specified in an Award Document and under this Plan in the event of the death of such
Participant or Permitted Transferee, or, if the Participant or Permitted Transferee has not
designated such person or persons, or such person or persons shall all have pre-deceased the
Participant or Permitted Transferee, the executor or administrator of the estate of such
Participant or Permitted Transferee.

-2- 

(6)   Benefit Plans Committee   shall mean the Benefit Plans Committee established by the
Board, consisting of employees of the Corporation.

(7)   Board   shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation.

(8)   Change in Control Event   shall mean any of the following:

(a) A change in the composition of a majority of the Board elected by
stockholders within 12 months after any  person  (as such term is used in Sections
3(a)(9), 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) is or becomes the
beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation
representing more than 25 percent of the combined voting power of the then
outstanding securities of the Corporation entitled to then vote generally in the
election of directors of the Corporation.

(b) A change in the authority of the Corporation to carry on its business that
would materially restrict the general scope of its authorized business activities.

(c) A change in the current legal or regulatory structure, other than one
sought by management, that would materially impair the Corporation s ability to
borrow as a  federal agency  borrower.

(9)   Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.

(10)   Committee   shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board.

(11)   Common Stock   shall mean the common stock of the Corporation and, in the event
such common stock is converted to another security or property pursuant to Section 8.2, such
other security or property.

(12)   Corporation   shall mean Federal National Mortgage Association and its successors,
and, where the context requires, its Subsidiaries.

(13)   Director Term   shall mean the period starting with the annual meeting of the
stockholders at which directors are elected to serve on the Board and ending with the next
annual meeting at which directors are elected.

(14)   Early Retirement   means separation from service with the Corporation at or after
the attainment of age 60 (but before attainment of age 65) with five years of service with
the Corporation, or at an earlier age only if permitted by the Nonmanagement Board or the
Committee (as the case may be) in its sole discretion. For purposes of this Section
1.2(14), a year of service shall be determined in accordance with the Federal National
Mortgage Association Retirement Plan for Employees Not Covered Under Civil Service

-3- 

Retirement Law.

(15)   Eligible Employee   shall mean any employee of the Corporation.

(16)   ERISA   shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended.

(17)   Escrow Agent   shall mean Chemical Bank or any additional or successor escrow
agent designated by the Benefit Plans Committee.

(18)   Escrow Agreement   shall mean the document approved by the Benefit Plans Committee
that sets forth the agreement among the Corporation, the Participant and the Escrow Agent
pursuant to which an Award of Restricted Stock, including an Award of Restricted Stock to a
Nonmanagement Director pursuant to Article VII, is held in escrow pursuant to its terms.

(19)   Fair Market Value   shall mean the per share value of Common Stock as determined
by using the mean between the high and low selling prices of such Common Stock, on the date
of determination, as reported on the NYSE. If such prices are not available the Fair Market
Value shall be the mean of (1) the mean between the high and low selling prices of the
common stock, as reported on the NYSE, for the first trading day immediately preceding the
date of determination and (2) the mean between the high and low selling prices of the common
stock, as reported on the NYSE, for the first trading day immediately following the date of
determination. If the Common Stock is no longer traded on the NYSE, or if for any other
reason using the foregoing methods to determine Fair Market Value is not possible or logical
under the circumstances, the Committee may determine the Fair Market Value, in good faith,
using any reasonable method.

(20)   Immediate Family Member   shall mean, with respect to a Participant, (i) such
Participant s child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse,
sibling, half-sibling, stepsibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law (including adoptive relations where the
adopted individual shall not have attained the age of 18 years prior to such adoption); (ii)
such Participant s Domestic Partner (as defined in Section 2.18 of the Federal National
Mortgage Association Retirement Plan for Employees Not Covered Under Civil Service
Retirement Law and determined pursuant to the guidelines and procedures established
thereunder); (iii) any lineal ascendant or descendant of any individual described in (i) or
(ii) above; (iv) any partnership, limited liability company, association, corporation or
other entity all of whose beneficial interests (including without limitation all pecuniary
interests, voting rights and investment power) are held by and for the benefit of the
Participant and/or one or more individuals described in (i), (ii) or (iii) above; or (v) any
trust for the sole benefit of the Participant and/or one or more individuals described in
(i), (ii) or (iii) above.

(21)   Incentive Stock Option   shall mean an Option that is designated as an incentive
stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code, or any successor

-4- 

provision, and
that otherwise satisfies the requirements of that section.

(22)   Limited SAR   shall mean a Stock Appreciation Right granted pursuant to
Section 3.4.

(23)   NMD Participant   shall mean a Nonmanagement Director who holds an Award granted
pursuant to Article VI or Article VII.

(24)   Nonmanagement Board   shall mean the Nonmanagement Directors, as a group.

(25)   Nonmanagement Director   shall mean a member of the Board who is not an officer or
employee of the Corporation.

(26)   Nonqualified Stock Option   shall mean an Option that is not an Incentive Stock
Option.

(27)   NYSE   shall mean the New York Stock Exchange.

(28)   Option   shall mean an option to purchase Common Stock pursuant to an Award.

(29)   Participant   shall mean a Nonmanagement Director or an Eligible Employee who
has been granted an Award under this Plan.

(30)   Performance Share Award   shall mean an Award granted under Section 5.1.

(31)   Permitted Transferee  s hall mean (i) any Immediate Family Member with respect to
the Participant, (ii) (A) an extended family member or any person who has provided or is
providing long-term assistance or care to the Participant or to an individual who is an
Immediate Family Member with respect to the Participant or (B) an Immediate Family Member of
a person described in (A), and (iii) in the case of an Eligible Employee, any organization
that is described in Section 170(c) of the Code or any intermediary designated to exercise
an Option for the benefit of such organization.

(32)   Personal Representative   shall mean the person or persons who, upon the
incompetence of a Participant, shall have acquired on behalf of the Participant, by legal
proceeding or otherwise, the power to exercise the rights or receive benefits under this
Plan and who shall have become the legal representative of the Participant.

(33)   Plan   shall mean this Fannie Mae Stock Compensation Plan of 1993.

(34)   Plan Termination Date   shall mean the tenth anniversary of the date of the
meeting at which stockholders of the Corporation approve the Plan.

(35)   QDRO   shall mean a qualified domestic relations order as defined in Section
414(p) of the Code or Section 206(d)(3) of ERISA (to the same extent as if this Plan were

-5- 

subject thereto), or the applicable rules thereunder.

(36)   Restricted Stock   shall mean shares of Common Stock awarded to a Participant
subject to payment of such consideration, if any, and such conditions on vesting and such
transfer and other restrictions as are established in or pursuant to this Plan, for so long
as such shares remain nonvested under the terms of the applicable Award Document.

(37)   Retirement   shall mean, in the case of an Eligible Employee, separation from
service with the Corporation under conditions entitling such Eligible Employee to an
immediate annuity under the Federal National Mortgage Association Retirement Plan for
Employees Not Covered Under Civil Service Retirement Law or under the Civil Service
retirement law, whichever is applicable to such Eligible Employee, at or after the
attainment of age 65.

(38)   Rule 16a-1   shall mean Rule 16a-1 as promulgated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to
time, and any successor provision.

(39)   Rule 16b-3   shall mean Rule 16b-3 as promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time,
and any successor provision.

(40)  Stand-Alone SAR   shall mean a Stock Appreciation Right granted independently of
any other Award.

(41)   Stock Appreciation Right   shall mean a right pursuant to an Award to receive a
number of shares of Common Stock or an amount of cash, or a combination of shares and cash,
the aggregate amount or value of which is determined by reference to a change in the Fair
Market Value of the Common Stock.

(42)   Stock Bonus   shall mean an Award of shares of Common Stock under Section 5.2.

(43)   STSP   shall mean the Federal National Mortgage Association Securities
Transactions Supervision Program and the guidelines thereunder.

(44)   Subsidiary   shall mean an organization whose employees are identified by the
Board as eligible to participate in benefit plans of the Corporation.

(45)   Total Disability   shall mean complete and permanent inability by reason of
illness or accident to perform the duties of the occupation at which the Participant was
employed when the illness commenced or accident occurred, as determined by the Corporation s
independent medical consultant, and, in the case of Eligible Employees at or above the rank
of Executive Vice President, ratified by the Nonmanagement Board.

-6- 

(46)
  Without Consideration   shall mean that a transfer of an Option is being made for a purely donative purpose, with no other promise or receipt of payment, goods, services
or other thing of value in exchange therefor,  provided ,  however , if the
terms of a transfer of Options to an otherwise Permitted Transferee requires that, upon
proper notice of exercise of such Options by or on behalf of such Permitted Transferee, (i)
the Corporation may reduce the number of shares of Common Stock or sell such number of
            shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable thereunder to the extent required to fund any
additional withholding tax on behalf of the Eligible Employee necessitated by such exercise,
delivering only the balance of the shares of Common Stock due upon the exercise of such
Option to the Permitted Transferee, and/or (ii) the Permitted Transferee is required to sell
the shares of Common Stock so received upon exercise of the Option, apply a portion of the
net proceeds thereof to the payment of any additional taxes, fees or other costs or expenses
incurred by the donor Eligible Employee in connection with or as a result of such transfer
and then deliver (if an intermediary) or retain (if an organization described in Section
170(c) of the Code) the remaining net proceeds from such sales of shares of Common Stock,
such transfer shall nevertheless continue to be Without Consideration for the purposes
hereof. A distribution of an Option by an entity or trust described in section 1.2(20)(iv)
or (v) to an owner or beneficiary thereof shall be treated as a transfer Without
Consideration

1.3  Administration and Authorization; Power and Procedure. 

(a)  The Nonmanagement Board and the Committee.  This Plan shall be administered by,
and all Awards to Eligible Employees shall be authorized by, the Nonmanagement Board in the
case of Eligible Employees at or above the rank of Executive Vice President and the
Committee in the case of Eligible Employees below the rank of Executive Vice President.
Action of the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee with respect to the administration of
this Plan shall be taken pursuant to a majority vote or by unanimous written consent of the
respective members. All references in this Plan to actions or determinations in respect of
Awards by the Nonmanagement Board shall be references to Awards granted to Eligible
Employees at or above the rank of Executive Vice President. All references in this Plan to
actions or determinations in respect of Awards by the Committee shall be references to
Awards granted to Eligible Employees below the rank of Executive Vice President. The
Nonmanagement Board shall administer this Plan with respect to all Awards held by Eligible
Employees at or above the rank of Executive Vice President, including Awards granted prior
to the time that any such Eligible Employee is elevated to that rank.

(b)  Plan Awards; Interpretation; Powers.  Subject to the express provisions of this
Plan, the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee shall have the authority:

(i) to determine the Eligible Employees who will receive Awards;

(ii) to grant Awards to such Eligible Employees, to determine the amount of
and the price at which Common Stock will be offered or awarded thereto, to
determine the other specific terms and conditions of such Awards consistent
with the express limits of this Plan, to establish the installments (if any)
in

-7- 

which such Awards shall become exercisable or shall vest, and to establish
the expiration date and the events of termination of such Awards;

(iii) to construe and interpret this Plan and any Award Documents, to further
define the terms used in this Plan, and to prescribe, amend and rescind rules
and regulations relating to the administration of this Plan;

(iv) to cancel, to modify, or waive the Corporation s rights with respect to,
or modify, discontinue, suspend, or terminate any or all outstanding Awards
held by Eligible Employees, subject to any required consents under Section
8.5;

(v) to accelerate or extend the ability to exercise or extend the term of any
or all outstanding Awards (subject to the maximum term of Awards under Section
1.7); and

(vi) to make all other determinations and take such other actions as
contemplated by this Plan or as may be necessary or advisable for the
administration of this Plan and the effectuation of its purposes.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of Articles VI and VII relating to
Nonmanagement Director Awards shall be automatic and, to the maximum extent possible,
self-effectuating, and the discretion of the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee shall not
extend to such Awards in any manner that would be impermissible under Rule 16b-3(c)(2).
Ministerial, non-discretionary actions with respect to implementation of the provisions of
Articles VI and VII shall be performed by individuals who are officers or employees of the
Corporation at the direction of the Benefit Plans Committee.

(c)  Binding Determinations.  Any action taken by, or inaction of, the Corporation, any
Subsidiary, the Board, the Nonmanagement Board, the Committee or th e  Benefit Plans Committee
relating or pursuant to this Plan shall be within the absolute discretion of that entity or
body and shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons. Subject only to compliance with
the express provisions hereof, the Board, the Nonmanagement Board and the Committee may act
in their absolute discretion in matters within their authority related to this Plan.

(d)  Reliance on Experts.  In making any determination or in taking or not taking any
action under this Plan, the Board, the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may obtain and
may rely upon the advice of experts, including professional advisors to the Corporation.

(e)  Delegation.  The Committee may delegate some or all of its authority under the Plan
to one or more members of the Board. The Nonmanagement Board and the Committee may delegate
ministerial, non-discretionary functions to individuals who are officers or employees of the
Corporation.

(f)  No Liability.  No member of the Board, the Committee or the Benefit Plans

-8- 

Committee, or director, officer or employee of the Corporation or any Subsidiary shall be
liable, responsible or accountable in damages or otherwise for any determination made or
other
action taken or any failure to act by such person so long as such person is not determined
to be guilty by a final adjudication of willful misconduct with respect to such
determination, action or failure to act.

(g)  Indemnification.  To the extent permitted by law, each of the members of the
Board, the Committee and the Benefit Plans Committee and each of the directors, officers
and employees of the Corporation and any Subsidiary shall be held harmless and be
indemnified by the Corporation for any liability, loss (including amounts paid in
settlement), damages or expenses (including reasonable attorneys  fees) suffered by virtue
of any determinations, acts or failures to act, or alleged acts or failures to act, in
connection with the administration of this Plan so long as such person is not determined by
a final adjudication to be guilty of willful misconduct with respect to such determination,
action or failure to act.

1.4  Participation.  Awards may be granted by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee
only to Eligible Employees. An Eligible Employee who has been granted an Award may, if otherwise
eligible, be granted additional Awards if the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee shall so
determine. Nonmanagement Directors shall not be eligible to receive any Awards except for Awards
granted automatically pursuant to Articles VI and VII.

1.5  Shares Available for Awards. 

(a)  Common Stock.  Subject to the provisions of Section 8.2, the Common Stock that may
be delivered under this Plan shall be shares of the Corporation s authorized but unissued
Common Stock, any shares of Common Stock held as treasury shares, and shares of Common Stock
purchased by the Corporation on the open market.

(b)  Number of Shares.  Subject to adjustments in accordance with Section 8.2, the
maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be delivered pursuant to Awards granted to
Eligible Employees and Nonmanagement Directors under this Plan shall not exceed 13,500,000
shares plus shares previously approved by the stockholders for awards under the Fannie Mae
Stock Compensation Plan, the Federal National Mortgage Association Restricted Stock Plan for
Directors, the Federal National Mortgage Association 1984 Stock Option Plan and the Federal
National Mortgage Association Performance Share Plan that have never been subject to awards
under such plans or that have become available as of March 29, 1993 under such plans through
the expiration, cancellation or termination of outstanding awards.

(c)  Calculation of Available Shares and Replenishment.  A good faith estimate of the
number of shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding Awards that will be satisfied by
delivery of shares of Common Stock, plus the number of shares of Common Stock referenced for
purposes of determining other Awards, shall be reserved from the number of shares of Common
Stock available for Awards under this Plan. The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock
delivered under this Plan plus the number of shares referenced with

-9- 

respect to Awards paid
in cash shall reduce the number of shares of Common Stock remaining available. If any Award
shall expire or be canceled or terminated without having been exercised in full, or any
Common Stock subject to a Restricted Stock Award or other Award shall not vest or be
delivered, the unpurchased, nonvested or undelivered shares of Common Stock subject thereto
or the shares of Common Stock referenced with respect thereto shall again be available under
this Plan; provided, however, that no such unpurchased, nonvested or undelivered shares
shall again be available if the holder received dividends with respect to such shares or any
other benefits of ownership of such shares, other than voting rights or the accumulation of
dividends that are never paid to the holder. In the case of Awards granted in combination
such that the exercise of one results in a proportionate cancellation of the other, the
number of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance shall be the greater of the number
that would be reserved if one or the other alone was outstanding. If the Corporation
withholds shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 8.4, the number of shares that would
have been deliverable with respect to an Award but that are withheld pursuant to the
provisions of Section 8.4 shall be treated as issued and the aggregate number of shares
issuable with respect to the applicable Award and under this Plan shall be reduced by the
number of shares so withheld and such shares shall not be available for additional Awards.

1.6  Grant of Awards.  Subject to the express provisions of this Plan, the
Nonmanagement Board or the Committee shall determine the number of shares of Common Stock subject
to each Award, the price (if any) to be paid for the shares or the Award and other terms and
conditions of the Award. Each Award to an Eligible Employee shall be evidenced by an Award Document
signed by the Corporation and, if required by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee, by the
Eligible Employee. Awards are not restricted to any specified form or structure and may include,
without limitation, the types of Awards set forth in Articles II, III, IV and V hereof or, without
limitation, any other transfers of Common Stock or any options or warrants to acquire Common Stock,
or any similar right with a value related to or derived from the value of Common Stock, as may be
determined by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee. An Award may consist of one such benefit,
or two or more of them in any combination or alternative.

1.7  Award Period.  Each Award and all executory rights or obligations under the
related Award Document shall expire on such date (if any) as shall be determined by the
Nonmanagement Board or the Committee, but in the case of Options or other rights to acquire Common
Stock, not later than ten (10) years and one day after the Award Date.

1.8  Limitations on Exercise and Vesting of Awards. 

(a)  Provisions for Exercise.  An Award shall be exercisable or shall vest as determined
by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee.

(b)  Procedure.  Any exercisable Award shall be exercised when the person appointed by
the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee receives written notice of such exercise from the
Participant, together with satisfactory arrangements for any required payment to be made in
accordance with Sections 2.2 or 8.4 or the terms of the Award Document, as the

-10- 

case may be.

(c)  Fractional Shares/Minimum Issue.  Fractional share interests shall be disregarded,
but may be accumulated. However, the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may determine
that cash will be paid or transferred in lieu of any fractional share interests.

1.9  Acceptance of Notes to Finance Exercise.  Where the Nonmanagement Board or the
Committee deems it appropriate under the circumstances as indicated by its written approval, the
Corporation may accept one or more notes from any Eligible Employee Participant in connection with
the exercise or receipt of any outstanding Award or the payment of the amount of any taxes that the
Corporation may be required to withhold with respect to such exercise or receipt; provided that any
such note shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:

(1) The principal of the note shall not exceed the amount required to be paid to the
Corporation upon the exercise or receipt of one or more Awards under the Plan, including the
amount of any taxes required to be withheld, and the note shall be delivered directly to the
Corporation in consideration of such exercise or receipt.

(2) The initial term of the note shall be determined by the Nonmanagement Board or the
Committee; provided that the term of the note, including extensions, shall not exceed ten
years.

(3) The note shall provide for full recourse to the Participant, including a right of
set-off against amounts otherwise payable by the Corporation to the Participant, and shall
bear interest at a rate determined by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee, but not less
than the applicable federal rate determined under Section 1274, or any successor provision
of the Code.

(4) If the employment of the Participant terminates, the unpaid principal balance of
the note shall become due and payable on the 10th business day after such termination;
provided, however, that if a sale of shares of Common Stock would cause such Participant to
incur liability under the STSP, the unpaid balance shall become due and payable on the 10th
business day after the first day on which a sale of such shares can be made without
incurring such liability, assuming for these purposes that, subsequent to such termination,
the Participant has entered into no other transactions involving shares of Common Stock.

(5) If required by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee or by applicable law, the
note shall be secured by a pledge of any shares or rights financed thereby in compliance
with applicable law.

(6) The terms, repayment provisions, and collateral release provisions of the note and
the pledge securing the note shall conform with applicable rules and regulations of the
Federal Reserve Board as then in effect.

-11- 

1.10  Transferability .

(a)  General Restrictions . Awards may be exercised only by the Participant; the
Participant s Personal Representative, if any; the Participant s Beneficiary, if the
Participant has died; in the case of any Option (other than an Incentive Stock Option), a
person who was a Permitted Transferee at the time the Option was transferred to such
person; or a Permitted Transferee s Beneficiary, if the Permitted Transferee has died. Amounts payable or shares
of Common Stock issuable pursuant to an Award shall be paid to (or registered in the name
of) such person or persons as specified by the person exercising the Award. Other than by
will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a QDRO (except to the extent not
permitted in the case of an Incentive Stock Option) or (subject to (b), (c), (d), (e), and
(f) below) to a Permitted Transferee in the case of any Option (other than an Incentive
Stock Option), no right or benefit under this Plan or any Award, including without
limitation any Option, Performance Share Award or share of Restricted Stock that has not
vested, shall be transferable by a Participant or Permitted Transferee or shall be subject
in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance
or charge (other than to the Corporation), and any such attempted action shall be void. The
Corporation shall disregard any attempt at transfer, assignment or other alienation
prohibited by the preceding sentences and only shall pay or deliver such cash or shares of
Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of this Plan. The designation of a
Beneficiary hereunder shall not constitute a transfer for these purposes.

(b)  Tax Withholding . An Eligible Employee may not transfer Options ( Transferred
Options ) to a Permitted Transferee, other than a Permitted Transferee described in Section
1.2(31)(iii), unless the Eligible Employee agrees to retain, and not to exercise, until the
exercise of the Transferred Options, at least 50 percent of the exercisable Options held by
the Eligible Employee with the same exercise price and expiration date as the Transferred
Options. The condition set forth in the preceding sentence, however, may be waived at any
time by (A) the Chairman of the Committee in the case of an Eligible Employee who is either
a member of the Board or the General Counsel of the Corporation, or (B) the General Counsel
of the Corporation in the case of any other Eligible Employee, and, as a condition of such
waiver, the Chairman of the Committee or the General Counsel of the Corporation, as the case
may be, may specify other steps that the Eligible Employee must take to provide for the
collection by the Corporation of all federal, state, local and other taxes required by law
to be withheld upon the exercise of such Transferred Options.

(c)  Notice of Transfer.  A transfer of an Option to a Permitted Transferee shall not
be effective unless, prior to making the transfer, the transferor (i) provides written
notice of the transfer to (A) the Chairman of the Committee in the case of a transfer by a
Participant who is either a member of the Board or the General Counsel of the Corporation
(or a transfer by a Permitted Transferee of an Option originally granted to a member of the
Board or to the General Counsel of the Corporation), or (B) the General Counsel of the
Corporation in the case of any other transfer, and (ii) certifies in writing to the Chairman
of the Committee or the General Counsel of the Corporation, as the case may be, that the
transfer will be Without Consideration.

-12- 

(d)  Approval of Transfer . A transfer of an Option to a Permitted Transferee described
in section 1.2(31)(ii) or (iii) shall not be effective unless, after receiving the notice
described in (c) above, the Chairman of the Committee or the General Counsel of the
Corporation, as the case may be, either approves the proposed transfer in writing or does
not disapprove the proposed transfer in writing within ten business days after receipt of
such notice. The
Chairman of the Committee or the General Counsel of the Corporation, as the case may be, may
disapprove such a proposed transfer if he or she determines, in his or her good faith
judgment, that (i) the proposed Permitted Transferee has philosophies, purposes, policies,
objectives, goals or practices inconsistent with those of the Corporation or (ii) the
Participant has not taken such steps as may be necessary or appropriate to provide for the
collection by the Corporation of all federal, state, local and other taxes required by law
to be withheld upon exercise of the Option.

(e)  Time of Transfer.  A transfer to a Permitted Transferee other than a Permitted
Transferee described in Section 1.2(31)(iii) may be made not earlier than March 14, 1997 and
not later than March 21, 1997 or, thereafter, only on the first business day of a subsequent
calendar quarter.

(f)  Transfer of Nonvested Options . A nonvested Option may be transferred to a
Permitted Transferee other than a Permitted Transferee described in section 1.2(31)(iii)
only with the prior consent of (A) the Chairman of the Committee in the case of a
Participant who is either a member of the Board or the General Counsel of the Corporation,
or (B) the General Counsel of the Corporation in the case of any other Participant.

1.11  Gain Deferral . Any participant who is eligible to participate in the Fannie Mae
Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan may elect to exercise a Nonqualified Stock Option pursuant to the
provisions of such plan.

1.12  Section 83(b) Elections.  If a Participant shall file an election with the
Internal Revenue Service to include the value of any Award in the Participant s gross income while
such Award remains subject to restrictions, the Participant shall promptly furnish the Corporation
with a copy of such election.

1.13  Payments to Persons Other Than Participants or Beneficiaries.  If the
Nonmanagement Board or the Committee determines that any Participant or Beneficiary to whom any
amount is payable under the Plan is unable to care for such person s affairs because of illness or
accident, or is a minor, then any payment due to such person (unless a prior claim therefor has
been made by a duly appointed legal representative) may, in the discretion of the Nonmanagement
Board or the Committee, be paid to such person s spouse, child, other relative, an institution
maintaining or having custody of such person, or any other person deemed by the Nonmanagement Board
or the Committee to be a proper recipient on behalf of such person otherwise entitled to payment.
Any such payment shall be a complete discharge of any liability under this Plan.

-13- 

II. Options 

2.1  Grants.  One or more Options may be granted under this Article to any Eligible
Employee. Each Option granted may be either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock
Option.

2.2  Option Price. 

(a)  Pricing Limits.  The exercise price for shares of Common Stock covered by Options
shall be determined by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee at the time of the Award,
but shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Award
Date.

(b)  Payment Provisions.  The exercise price for any shares of Common Stock purchased on
exercise of an Option granted under this Article shall be paid in full at the time of each
exercise in one or a combination of the following methods: (i) in cash or by electronic
funds transfer; (ii) by check payable to the order of the Corporation; (iii) by notice and
third party payment; (iv) by the delivery of shares of Common Stock already owned by the
Participant; (v) if authorized by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee or specified in
the applicable Award Document, by a promissory note of the Participant consistent with the
requirements of Section 1.9; or (vi) through simultaneous sale through a broker of shares of
Common Stock acquired on exercise, as permitted under Regulation T of the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System; provided, however, that the Nonmanagement Board or the
Committee may, in its absolute discretion, limit the Participant s ability to exercise an
Option by delivering shares of Common Stock, including by imposing a requirement that the
Participant satisfy a minimum holding period with respect to the shares so delivered.
Shares of Common Stock used to satisfy the exercise price of an Option shall be valued at
their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise.

2.3  Limitations on Incentive Stock Options.  There shall be imposed in any Award
Document relating to Incentive Stock Options such terms and conditions as from time to time are
required in order that the Option be an  incentive stock option  as that term is defined in Section
422 of the Code, or any successor provision.

2.4  Option Period. 

(a)  Award Period.  Each Option shall specify the Award Period for which the Option is
granted and shall provide that the Option shall expire at the end of such Award Period. The
Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may extend the Award Period by amendment of an Option.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Award Period with respect to an Option, including all
extensions, shall not exceed: (i) in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, 10 years, and
(ii) in the case of any other Option, 10 years and one day.

b)  Effect of Termination of Employment.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section

-14- 

2.4(a),
unless otherwise provided by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee, (i) for a Participant
who terminates employment with the Company for any reason other than Retirement, Early
Retirement, Total Disability or, death or having attained age 55 with five years of service
and is not covered by Section 2.5(d), an Option shall expire on the earlier to occur of (A)
the end of the Award Period or (B) the date three months following the Participant s
termination of employment, (ii) for a Participant who terminates employment with the Company
and is covered by Section 2.5(d), an Option shall expire on
the earlier to occur of (A) the end of the Award Period or (B) the date 12 months following
the Participant s termination, or (iii) for a Participant who terminates employment by
reason of Retirement, Early Retirement, Total Disability, death or having attained age 55
with five years of service, an Option shall expire on the end of the Award Period.

c)  Death of Permitted Transferee.  Unless otherwise provided by the Nonmanagement Board
or the Committee, an Option held by a Permitted Transferee shall expire on the earlier of
its expiration pursuant to Section 2.4(a) or (b) or the date 12 months following the
Permitted Transferee s death.

2.5  Vesting; Forfeiture. 

(a)  Vesting Generally . An Option shall be exercisable and vested upon such terms and
conditions or pursuant to such schedule as the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee shall
determine at the time of the Award. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2.5 or
unless otherwise specified by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee, an Option that is
not vested upon a Participant s termination of employment shall be forfeited.

(b)  Change in Control . Unless otherwise specified by the Nonmanagement Board, Options
held for more than one year from the Award Date by Participants at or above the rank of
Executive Vice President shall become immediately exercisable and fully vested upon a Change
in Control Event.

(c)  Retirement, Early Retirement, Total Disability or Death . Unless otherwise
specified by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee, an Option shall become immediately
exercisable and fully vested upon the Participant s termination of employment with the
Corporation by reason of Retirement, Early Retirement, Total Disability or death.

(d)  Vesting Upon Termination with Separation Agreements . Notwithstanding the
foregoing, (i) for a Participant who executes, prior to the termination of his or her
employment, a separation agreement with the Corporation pursuant to the Corporation s
Voluntary Separation Agreement program ( VSA ), one-half of the portion of each Award that
would have vested within 12 months of the date of such Participant s termination of
employment with the Corporation shall become immediately exercisable and fully vested upon
such Participant s termination; (ii) (A) for a Participant who accepts the Corporation s
offer to terminate employment voluntarily and executes, prior to the termination of such
Participant s employment, a separation agreement with the

-15- 

Corporation pursuant to an
Elective Severance Window under the Federal National Mortgage Association Discretionary
Severance Benefit Plan, the portion of each Award that would have vested within 12 months of
the date of such Participant s termination of employment with the Corporation, and one-half
of the portion of each Award that would have vested within 13-24 months of the date of such
Participant s termination, shall become immediately exercisable and fully vested upon such
Participant s termination, and (B) for a Participant who is not given the opportunity to
terminate employment under an Elective Severance Window but voluntarily executes, prior to
the termination of his or her
employment, a separation agreement with the Corporation pursuant to a Displacement
Program under the Federal National Mortgage Association Discretionary Severance Benefit
Plan, the portion of each Award that would have vested within 12 months of the date of such
Participant s termination of employment with the Corporation shall become immediately
exercisable and fully vested upon such Participant s termination, and (iii) for a
Participant who executes, prior to the termination of his or her employment, a separation
agreement with the Corporation pursuant to the Fannie Mae Individual Severance Plan, the
portion of each Award that would have vested within 12 months of the date of such
Participant s termination of employment with the Corporation shall become immediately
exercisable and fully vested upon such Participant s termination.

(e)   EPS Challenge Grants.   Section 2.5(d) shall not apply to Options granted
pursuant to  EPS Challenge Grants,  initially granted on January 18, 2000.

2.6  Option Repricing, Cancellation, Substitution or Waiver of Restrictions.  Subject
to Sections 1.5 and 8.5 and the specific limitations on Awards contained in this Plan, the
Nonmanagement Board or the Committee from time to time may authorize, generally or in specific
cases only, for the benefit of any Participant who is an Eligible Employee, any adjustment in the
exercise or purchase price, the vesting schedule, the number of shares subject to, the restrictions
upon or the term of, an Award granted under this Article by cancellation of an outstanding Award
and a subsequent granting of an Award, by amendment, by substitution of an outstanding Award, by
waiver or by other legally valid means. Such amendment or other action may result, among other
changes, in an exercise or purchase price that is higher or lower than the exercise or purchase
price of the original or prior Award, provide for a greater or lesser number of shares subject to
the Award, or provide for a longer or shorter vesting or exercise period.

III. Stock Appreciation Rights 

3.1  Grants.  In its discretion, the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may grant to
any Eligible Employee Stock Appreciation Rights either concurrently with the grant of another Award
or in respect of an outstanding Award, in whole or in part, or may grant to any Eligible Employee
Stand-Alone SARs. Any Stock Appreciation Right granted in connection with an Incentive Stock Option
shall contain such terms as may be required to comply with the provisions of Section 422 of the
Code (or any successor provision) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Each Stand-Alone SAR
shall specify the Award Period for which the Stand-Alone SAR is granted and shall provide that the
Stand-Alone SAR shall expire at the end of such Award Period. The Nonmanagement Board or the
Committee may extend the Award Period by amendment of a

-16- 

Stand-Alone SAR; provided, however, that
the Award Period, including all extensions, shall not exceed 10 years and one day.

3.2  Exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights. 

(a)  Related Awards.  Unless the Award Document or the Nonmanagement Board or the
Committee otherwise provides, a Stock Appreciation Right related to another Award shall be
exercisable at such time or times, and to the extent, that the related Award shall be
exercisable.

(b)  Stand-Alone SARs . Stand-Alone SARs shall be exercisable and vest upon such terms
and conditions or pursuant to such schedule as the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee
shall determine at the time of the Award. Unless otherwise provided by the Nonmanagement
Board or the Committee, (i) in the case of a Participant s termination of employment with
the Corporation by reason of Retirement, Early Retirement, Total Disability or death,
Stand-Alone SARs shall become immediately exercisable and fully vested upon the
Participant s termination of employment, and Stand-Alone SARs shall expire and no longer be
exercisable at the end of the Award Period; and (ii) in the case of a Participant s
termination of employment with the Corporation for any reason other than Retirement, Early
Retirement, Total Disability or death, Stand-Alone SARs shall expire and no longer be
exercisable on the earlier to occur of (A) the end of the Award Period or (B) the date three
months following the Participant s termination of employment. Unless otherwise provided by
the Nonmanagement Board, Stand-Alone SARs held for more than one year from the Award Date by
Participants at or above the rank of Executive Vice President shall become immediately
exercisable and fully vested upon a Change in Control Event.

3.3  Payment. 

(a)  Amount.  Unless the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee otherwise provides, upon
exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right and surrender of the appropriate exercisable portion
of any related Award, the Participant shall be entitled to receive payment of an amount
determined by multiplying

(i) the difference obtained by subtracting the exercise price per share of
Common Stock under the related Award (if applicable) or the initial share value
specified in the Award from the Fair Market Value upon exercise, by

(ii) the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Participant
is exercising the Stock Appreciation Right.

-17- 

(b)  Form of Payment.  The Nonmanagement Board or the Committee, in its sole
discretion, shall determine the form in which payment shall be made of the amount
determined under paragraph (a) above, which may be solely in cash, solely in shares
of Common Stock (valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of the
Stock Appreciation Right), or partly in such shares and partly in cash. If the
Nonmanagement Board or the Committee permits the Participant to elect to receive
cash or shares (or a combination thereof) on such exercise, any such election shall
be subject to such conditions as the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may
impose.

3.4  Limited Stock Appreciation Rights.  The Committee may grant to any Eligible
Employee Limited SARs exercisable only upon or in respect of a Change in Control Event or any other
specified event and such Limited SARs may relate to or operate in combination with or in
substitution for Options, other Stock Appreciation Rights or other Awards (or any combination
thereof), and may be payable in cash or shares of Common Stock based on the spread between the
exercise price of the Limited SAR and a price based upon the Fair Market Value of the shares during
a specified period or on a specified date within a range of six months before or after such event.

IV. Restricted Stock Awards 

4.1  Grants.  The Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may, in its discretion, grant
one or more Restricted Stock Awards to any Eligible Employee. Each Restricted Stock Award Document
shall specify the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued to the Participant, the date of
such issuance, the consideration for such shares, if any, by the Participant, the restrictions
imposed on such shares, and the conditions of release or lapse of such restrictions. Stock
certificates evidencing shares of Restricted Stock pending the lapse of the restrictions shall be
held by the Corporation or by a third party designated by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee
until the restrictions on such shares shall have lapsed and the shares shall have vested in
accordance with the provisions of the Award. Promptly after the lapse of restrictions, a
certificate or certificates evidencing the number of shares of Common Stock as to which the
restrictions have lapsed (or such lesser number as may be permitted pursuant to Section 8.4) shall
be delivered to the Participant or other person entitled under the Plan to receive the shares. The
Participant or such other person shall deliver to the Corporation such further assurance and
documents as the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may require.

4.2  Restrictions. 

(a)  Pre-Vesting Restraints.  Except as provided in Section 1.10, shares of Common Stock
comprising any Restricted Stock Award may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or
otherwise disposed of or encumbered, either voluntarily or involuntarily, until the
restrictions have lapsed.

(b)  Dividend and Voting Rights.  Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award
Document, a Participant receiving a Restricted Stock Award shall be entitled to cash
dividend and voting rights for all shares of Common Stock issued even though they are not

-18- 

vested, provided that such rights shall terminate immediately as to any Restricted Stock
that ceases to be eligible for vesting.

(c)  Accelerated Vesting.  Unless otherwise provided by the Nonmanagement Board or the
Committee, the restrictions on Restricted Stock shall lapse upon the Participant s
termination of employment with the Corporation by reason of Retirement, Early Retirement,
Total Disability or death, and restrictions on Restricted Stock held for more than one year
from the Award Date by Participants at or above the rank of Executive Vice President shall
lapse upon a Change in Control Event.

(d)  Forfeiture.  Unless otherwise specified by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee,
Restricted Stock as to which the restrictions have not lapsed in accordance with
the provisions of the Award or pursuant to Section 4.2(c) shall be forfeited upon a
Participant s termination of employment. Upon the occurrence of any forfeiture of shares of
Restricted Stock, such forfeited shares shall be automatically transferred to the
Corporation without payment of any consideration by the Corporation and without any action
by the Participant.

V. Performance Share Awards and Stock Bonuses 

5.1  Grants of Performance Share Awards.  The Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may,
in its discretion, grant Performance Share Awards to Eligible Employees. An Award shall specify the
maximum number of shares of Common Stock (if any) subject to the Performance Share Award and its
terms and conditions. The Nonmanagement Board shall establish the specified period (a  performance
cycle ) for the Performance Share Award and the measure(s) of the performance of the Corporation
(or any part thereof) or the Participant. The Nonmanagement Board may, during the performance
cycle, make such adjustments to the measure(s) of performance as it may deem appropriate to
compensate for, or reflect, any significant changes that may occur in accounting practices, tax
laws, other laws or regulations that alter or affect the computation of the measure(s). The Award
Document shall specify how the degree of attainment of the measure(s) over the performance cycle is
to be determined. The Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may provide for full or partial credit,
prior to completion of such performance cycle or the attainment of the performance achievement
specified in the Award, in the event of the Participant s death or other termination of employment.
Unless otherwise provided by the Nonmanagement Board, upon a Change in Control Event payments shall
be made with respect to a Performance Share Award held for more than one year from the Award Date
by a Participant at or above the rank of Executive Vice President, based on the assumption that the
performance achievement specified in the Award would have been attained by the end of the
performance cycle.

5.2  Grants of Stock Bonuses.  The Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may grant a
Stock Bonus to any Eligible Employee to reward exceptional or special services, contributions or
achievements, in such amounts of Common Stock and on such terms and conditions as determined from
time to time by the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee.

5.3  Deferred Payments.  The Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may authorize for the
benefit of any Eligible Employee the deferral of any payment of cash or shares of Common

-19- 

Stock that
may become due or of cash otherwise payable under this Plan, and provide for accredit benefits
thereon based upon such deferment, at the election or at the request of such Participant, subject
to the other terms of this Plan. Such deferral shall be subject to such further conditions,
restrictions or requirements as the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may impose, subject to any
then-vested rights of the Participant.

VI. Nonmanagement Director Options 

6.1  Participation.  Awards under this Article VI shall be made only to Nonmanagement
Directors.

6.2  Annual Option Grants. 

(a)  Time of Initial Award.  After approval of this Plan by the stockholders of the
Corporation, each Nonmanagement Director shall be granted automatically (without any action
by the Board, the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee) a Nonqualified Stock Option (the
Award Date of which shall be the date of stockholder approval of the Plan) to purchase 4000
shares of Common Stock.

(b)  Subsequent Annual Awards.  Following the initial award described in Section 6.2(a),
on the first day of each Director Term for each Nonmanagement Director (which shall be the
Award Date) each year prior to the Plan Termination Date, there shall be granted
automatically (without any action by the Board, the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee) to
each such Nonmanagement Director then in office a Nonqualified Stock Option to purchase 4000
shares of Common Stock. Any Nonmanagement Director appointed or elected to office during a
Director Term shall be granted automatically (without any action by the Board, the
Nonmanagement Board or the Committee) a Nonqualified Stock Option (the Award Date of which
shall be the date such person takes office) to purchase the nearest whole number of shares
of Common Stock equal to 4000 multiplied by the number of partial or full calendar months
(not to exceed 12) remaining in such Director Term divided by 12.

(c)  Maximum Number of Shares.  Annual grants that would otherwise cause the total
Awards under this Plan to exceed the maximum number of shares of Common Stock under Section
1.5(b) shall be prorated to come within such limitation.

6.3  Option Price.  The exercise price per share of Common Stock covered by each Option
granted pursuant to Section 6.2 shall be 100 percent of the Fair Market Value. The exercise price
of any Option granted under this Article shall be paid in full at the time of each purchase, in
cash or by check or in shares of Common Stock valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of
exercise of the Option, or partly in such shares and partly in cash.

6.4  Option Period and Ability to Exercise.  Each Option granted under this Article VI
and all rights or obligations thereunder shall commence on the Award Date and expire ten years and
one

-20- 

day thereafter and shall be subject to earlier termination as provided below. Each Option
granted under Section 6.2 shall be immediately exercisable.

6.5  Termination of Directorship.  If an NMD Participant s services as a member of the
Board terminate for any reason after at least ten years of service as a NMD, or by reason of such
NMD Participant s death, Total Disability or not having been renominated for election by the
stockholders of the Corporation after reaching age 70, any Option granted pursuant to this Article
VI held by such NMD Participant shall remain exercisable until the earlier of one year after the
date of such termination and the expiration of the stated term of such Option. If an NMD
Participant s services as a member of the Board terminate for any other reason, any
then-outstanding Option may be exercised until the earlier of three months after the date of such
termination and the expiration of the stated term of such Option.

6.6  Adjustments.  Options granted under this Article VI shall be subject to adjustment
as provided in Section 8.2, but only to the extent that such adjustment is based on objective
criteria and is consistent with adjustments to Options or other Awards held by persons other than
Nonmanagement Directors.

6.7  Limitation on Amendments.  The provisions of this Article VI shall not be amended
more than once every six months (other than as may be necessary to conform to any applicable
changes in the Code or the rules thereunder), unless any such amendment would be consistent with
the provisions of Rule 16b-3(c)(2)(ii) (or any successor provision).

VII. Nonmanagement Director Restricted Stock 

7.1  Participation.  Awards under this Article VII shall be made only to Nonmanagement
Directors.

7.2  Amount of Awards.  There shall be a five-year cycle of Awards under this Article
VII commencing on the date of the annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation during the
year 2001 and ending on the fifth anniversary of such date in the year 2006. Awards shall be made
to each Nonmanagement Director according to the appropriate provision set forth below. No Awards
shall be granted later than the end of the five-year cycle. Neither the Plan nor any action taken
thereunder shall be construed as giving any NMD Participant the right to be reappointed or
renominated to serve as a member of the Board.

(i) Each Nonmanagement Director who is a member of the Board immediately following the
annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation in the year 2001 shall receive an
Award (rounded to the nearest full share) of shares of Restricted Stock having an aggregate
Fair Market Value on the date of the first meeting of the Board following such annual
meeting equal to the amount computed by adjusting $60,000 for inflation between 1996 and
2001. The computation shall be done by multiplying $60,000 by 100 percent plus the
percentage increase in the 12-month Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers ( CPI-U ),
as published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, for the year 2000 over the 12-month
CPI-U for 1996. If the CPI-U is not published or otherwise available at the time of

-21- 

the 2001
annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the Benefit Plans Committee is authorized
to choose another measure of the inflation between 1996 and 2001 for purposes of this
computation.

(ii) A Nonmanagement Director who is newly appointed or elected thereafter shall receive an
Award equal to the number of shares (rounded to the nearest full share) that would have been
granted had such person been a member of the Board on the date of the first meeting of the
Board following the annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation in the year 2001
multiplied by the number of partial or full calendar months (not to exceed 60) remaining in
the cycle from the date of the Nonmanagement Director s appointment or election divided by 60.

7.3  Terms and Conditions.  Each NMD Participant who receives an Award pursuant to
Section 7.2 shall execute an Escrow Agreement and appropriate blank stock powers with respect to his or her
Restricted Stock. Stock certificates for such Restricted Stock registered in the name of each such
NMD Participant shall be issued and deposited, together with the Escrow Agreement and stock powers,
with the Escrow Agent. An NMD Participant shall be entitled to the delivery of such stock
certificates out of escrow only in accordance with the provisions of Sections 7.6 and 7.7. Except
as provided in Section 7.4, all Common Stock, all cash, or other property received by the Escrow
Agent on account of the Restricted Stock shall be treated in the same manner as Restricted Stock,
shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Escrow Agreement and shall be delivered
out of escrow to the NMD Participant or to the Corporation at the same time as the Restricted Stock
with respect to which it was issued.

7.4  Rights of NMD Participants.  Except for the restrictions under Section 7.5, each
NMD Participant who receives an Award pursuant to Section 7.2 shall have all of the rights and
privileges of a stockholder of the Corporation as to the Restricted Stock subject to such Award,
including the right to receive any cash and stock dividends declared with respect to such
Restricted Stock and to direct the Escrow Agent as to the exercise of voting rights; provided,
however, that in the case of a stock split in the form of a stock dividend, such dividend shares
shall be subject to the same restrictions as the Restricted Stock and held under the Escrow
Agreement.

7.5  Restrictions.  Restricted Stock covered by an Award under this Article VII shall
be subject to the following restrictions, which shall apply from the date the Award is granted and
shall continue until such Restricted Stock becomes vested under Section 7.6 or 7.7:

(i) 
       
     The Restricted Stock shall not be transferable other than to
the NMD Participant s Beneficiary upon the NMD Participant s death. 

(ii) 
       
     Each NMD Participant s right to the Restricted Stock shall be
forfeited if and when such NMD Participant ceases to be a Nonmanagement
Director, except to the extent that the NMD Participant s right to receive the
Restricted Stock without restrictions shall have vested under Section 7.6 or
7.7. If forfeited, all such stock shall become the property of the Corporation
and all of the rights of such NMD Participant to such Restricted Stock and as a
stockholder (including 

-22- 

the right to any accrued but unpaid dividends) shall
terminate without further obligation on the part of the Corporation. 

7.6  Vesting.  The right of each NMD Participant to removal of the restrictions from
Restricted Stock held for the account of such NMD Participant shall vest in accordance with the
provisions of this Section 7.6 and the restrictions for those shares shall lapse, whereupon the
Escrow Agent shall deliver to the NMD Participant or the NMD Participant s Beneficiary or Personal
Representative a stock certificate evidencing such Restricted Stock, free of the restrictions set
forth in the Award and Section 7.5. Except for NMD Participants described in Section 7.7, upon
termination of a Nonmanagement Director s service on the Board, all shares awarded under this
Article VII that remain subject to restrictions, after the provisions of subsections (i) through
(iii) below are applied, shall be forfeited by the NMD Participant and become the property of the
Corporation and all of the rights of such NMD Participant to such Restricted Stock and as a
stockholder (including the right to accrued but unpaid dividends) shall terminate without further
obligation on the part of the Corporation.

(i) 
       
     Each NMD Participant who is a member of the Board at the first
meeting following the annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation in
the year 2001 shall vest on the day before each subsequent annual meeting of
the stockholders during the remainder of the cycle (if he or she is a member of
the Board on such date) in the number of full shares closest to and not
exceeding 20 percent of the Restricted Stock awarded at the beginning of the
full cycle. If an NMD Participant is not reelected or reappointed to membership
on the Board, upon such NMD Participant s ceasing to be a Nonmanagement
Director all Restricted Stock awarded under this Article VII that then remains
subject to restrictions, shall be forfeited. 

(ii) 
       
     An NMD Participant who is elected or appointed to the Board for
a complete Director Term after the first year of the cycle shall vest on the
day before each subsequent annual meeting of the stockholders during the
remainder of the cycle (if he or she is a member of the Board on such date) as
to the number of shares of Restricted Stock in which such NMD Participant would
have vested on such date if such NMD Participant had been granted an Award at
the beginning of the cycle. 

(iii) 
       
     The rights of an NMD Participant who is elected or appointed
to the Board during a Director Term shall vest on the day before each
subsequent annual meeting during the remainder of the cycle (if he or she is a
member of the Board on such date) as to the number of shares of Restricted
Stock in which the replaced predecessor would have vested had the predecessor
remained a Nonmanagement Director, except that for the initial partial Director
Term, the NMD Participant shall vest in only a fraction of the shares (rounded
to the nearest full share) in which an NMD Participant serving for the full
Director Term would have vested for that Director Term, such fraction being the
number of such shares multiplied by the number of partial or full calendar
months (not 

-23- 

to exceed 12) of the Director Term served by the NMD Participant,
divided by 12. 

7.7  Disability, Death or Termination After Age 70.  If any NMD Participant s
membership on the Board terminates because of (i) Total Disability, (ii) such NMD Participant s
death, or (iii) as to a Nonmanagement Director who is elected to the Board by the stockholders, not
being renominated after reaching age 70, the restrictions on all of the Restricted Stock held in
the account of such NMD Participant shall lapse on the date of such termination of membership on
the Board and the full balance of Restricted Stock in such account shall be delivered out of escrow
as provided in Section 7.6.

7.8  Adjustments.  Restricted Stock granted under this Article VII shall be subject to
adjustment as provided in Section 8.2, but only to the extent that such adjustment is based on
objective criteria and is consistent with adjustments to Restricted Stock or other Awards held by
persons other than Nonmanagement Directors.

7.9  Limitation on Amendments.  The provisions of this Article VII shall not be amended
more than once every six months (other than as may be necessary to conform to any applicable
changes in
the Code or the rules thereunder), unless any such amendment would be consistent with the
provisions of Rule 16b-3(c)(2)(ii) (or any successor provision).

VIII. Other Provisions 

8.1  Rights of Eligible Employees, Participants and Beneficiaries. 

(a)  Employment Status.  Status as an Eligible Employee shall not be construed as a
commitment that any Award will be made under this Plan to an Eligible Employee or to
Eligible Employees generally.

(b)  No Employment Contract.  Nothing contained in this Plan (or in any other documents
related to this Plan or to any Award) shall confer upon any Participant any right to
continue in the employ or other service of the Corporation or constitute any contract or
agreement of employment or other service, nor shall this Plan interfere in any way with the
right of the Corporation to change such person s compensation or other benefits or to
terminate the employment of such person, with or without cause; provided, however, that
nothing contained in this Plan or any document related hereto shall adversely affect any
independent contractual right of any Participant without his or her consent.

(c)  Plan Not Funded.  Awards payable under this Plan shall be payable in shares of
Common Stock or from the general assets of the Corporation, and (except as provided in
Section 1.5(c)) no special or separate reserve, fund or deposit shall be made to assure
payment of such Awards. No Participant, Beneficiary or other person shall have any right,
title or interest in any fund or in any specific asset (including shares of Common Stock,
except as expressly otherwise provided) of the Corporation by reason of any Award hereunder.
Neither the provisions of this Plan (or of any related documents), nor the creation

-24- 

or
adoption of this Plan, nor any action taken pursuant to the provisions of this Plan shall
create, or be construed to create, a trust of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between
the Corporation and any Participant, Beneficiary or other person. To the extent that a
Participant, Beneficiary or other person acquires a right to receive payment pursuant to any
Award hereunder, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general
creditor of the Corporation.

8.2  Adjustments. 

(a)  Events Requiring Adjustments.  If any of the following events occur, the
Nonmanagement Board or the Committee shall make the adjustments described in Section 8.2(b):
(i) any extraordinary dividend or other extraordinary distribution in respect of the Common
Stock (whether in the form of cash, Common Stock, other securities, or other property), (ii)
any recapitalization, stock split (including a stock split in the form of a stock dividend),
reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, combination, consolidation, split-up, spin-off,
combination, repurchase, or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Corporation,
(iii) any issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares of Common Stock or other
securities of the Corporation (other than to employees) at less than 80 percent of fair
value on the date of such issuance, or (iv) any other like corporate transaction or event in
respect of the Common Stock or a sale of substantially all the assets of the Corporation.

(b)  Adjustments to Awards.  If any of the events described in Section 8.2(a) occurs,
then the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee shall, in such manner and to such extent (if
any) as it deems appropriate and equitable, (i) proportionately adjust any or all of (1) the
number and type of shares of Common Stock that thereafter may be made the subject of Awards
(including the specific maximum set forth in Section 1.5), (2) the number, amount and type
of shares of Common Stock subject to any or all outstanding Awards, (3) the grant, purchase,
or exercise price of any or all outstanding Awards, (4) the Common Stock or cash deliverable
upon exercise of any outstanding Awards, or (5) the performance standards appropriate to any
outstanding Awards; or (ii) make provision for a cash payment or for the substitution or
exchange of any or all outstanding Awards based upon the distribution or consideration
payable to holders of Common Stock upon or in respect of the event; provided, however, in
each case, that with respect to Awards of Incentive Stock Options, no such adjustment shall
be made that would cause the Plan to violate Section 422 or Section 424(a) of the Code or
any successor provisions thereto.

8.3  Compliance with Laws.  This Plan, the granting and vesting of Awards under this
Plan and the issuance and delivery of shares of Common Stock and the payment of money under this
Plan or under Awards granted hereunder are subject to compliance with all applicable federal and
state laws, rules and regulations (including but not limited to state and federal securities law
and federal margin requirements) and to such approvals by any listing, regulatory or governmental
authority as may, in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation, be necessary or advisable in
connection therewith. Any securities delivered under this Plan shall be subject to such
restrictions, and the person acquiring such securities shall, if requested by the Corporation,
provide such assurances and representations to the Corporation as the Corporation may deem
necessary or desirable to assure

-25- 

compliance with all applicable legal requirements.

8.4  Tax Withholding.  Upon any exercise, vesting, or payment of any Award or upon the
disposition of shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Incentive Stock
Option prior to satisfaction of the holding period requirements of Section 422 of the Code (or any
successor provision), the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee may make such provisions and take
such steps as it may deem necessary or appropriate for the withholding by the Corporation of all
federal, state, local and other taxes required by law to be withheld, including without limitation,
the right, at its option, (i) to require the Participant (or Personal Representative or
Beneficiary, as the case may be) to pay or provide for payment of the amount of any taxes that the
Corporation may be required to withhold with respect to such transaction as a condition to the
release of Common Stock or the making of any payment or distribution, (ii) to deduct from any
amount payable in cash, (iii) to reduce the number of shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable
(or otherwise reacquire such shares), based upon their Fair Market Value on the date of delivery,
or to grant the Participant the right to elect such reduction in the number of shares upon such
terms and conditions as it may establish, or (iv) to permit the Corporation to accept a note for
the amount of any taxes that the Corporation may be required to withhold with respect to such
transaction in accordance with Section 1.9.

8.5  Plan Amendment, Termination and Suspension. 

(a)  Board Authorization.  Subject to this Section 8.5, the Board may, at any time,
terminate or, from time to time, amend, modify or suspend this Plan, in whole or in part. No
Awards may be granted during any suspension of this Plan or after termination of this Plan,
but the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee shall retain jurisdiction as to Awards then
outstanding in accordance with the terms of this Plan.

(b)  Stockholder Approval.  If any amendment would (i) materially increase the benefits
accruing under this Plan, or (ii) materially increase the aggregate number of shares of
Common Stock that may be issued under this Plan (except as provided in Section 8.2), then to
the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the Board, such amendment shall be subject to
stockholder approval.

(c)  Amendments to Awards.  Without limiting any other express authority granted under
this Plan, but subject to its express limits, the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee by
agreement or resolution may waive conditions of or limitations on Awards to Eligible
Employees that the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee in the prior exercise of its
discretion has imposed, without the consent of the Participant, and may make other changes
to the terms and conditions of Awards that do not affect the Participant s rights and
benefits under an Award in any materially adverse manner.

(d)  Limitations on Amendments to Plan and Awards.  No amendment, suspension or
termination of the Plan or any change affecting any outstanding Award shall, without the
written consent of the Participant, Beneficiary or Personal Representative, as applicable,
affect in any manner materially adverse to such person any rights or benefits of any such

-26- 

person or any obligations of the Corporation under any Award granted under this Plan prior
to the effective date of such change; however, any changes made pursuant to Section 8.2
shall not be deemed to constitute changes or amendments for purposes of this Section 8.5.

8.6  Privileges of Stock Ownership.  Except as otherwise expressly authorized by the
Nonmanagement Board or the Committee or this Plan and expressly stated in an Award Document, a
Participant shall not be entitled to any privilege of stock ownership as to any shares of Common
Stock not actually delivered to and held of record by the Participant. No adjustment shall be made
for dividends or other stockholder rights for which a record date is prior to the date of delivery
of such shares.

8.7  Effective Date of the Plan.  This Plan shall be effective as of the date of the
meeting at which the stockholders of the Corporation approve it.

8.8  Term of the Plan.  Except for any Award pursuant to Section 7.2 granted to a
Nonmanagement Director who is newly appointed or elected to the Board during the 2001-2006 cycle,
no Award shall be granted after the Plan Termination Date. Unless otherwise expressly provided in
this Plan or in an applicable Award Document, any Award may extend beyond such date, and all
authority of the Nonmanagement Board or the Committee with respect to Awards hereunder shall
continue
during any suspension of this Plan and in respect of Awards outstanding on the Plan Termination
Date.

8.9  Governing Law/Construction/Severability. 

(a)  Choice of Law.  This Plan, the Awards, all documents evidencing Awards, and all
other related documents shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of
the District of Columbia, without reference to its principles of conflicts of law.

(b)  Severability.  If any provision shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be invalid and unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Plan shall continue in
effect.

(c)  Plan Construction.  It is the intent of the Corporation that this Plan and the
Awards satisfy and be interpreted so that Participants who are or may be subject to the
applicable requirements of the STSP will not be subjected to avoidable liability under the
STSP. If any provision of this Plan or of any Award would otherwise frustrate or conflict
with this intent, to the extent possible that provision shall be interpreted and deemed
amended so as to avoid such conflict; if there is any remaining irreconcilable conflict with
such intent, such provision shall be deemed void.

8.10  Captions.  Captions and headings are given to the sections and subsections of
this Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any
way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the Plan or any provision
thereof.

8.11  Effect of Change of Subsidiary Status.  For purposes of this Plan and any Award
hereunder, if an entity ceases to be a Subsidiary, the employment of all Participants who
are
employed by such entity shall be deemed to have terminated, except any such Participant who

-27- 

continues as an employee of another entity within the Corporation.

8.12  Nonexclusivity of Plan.  Nothing in this Plan shall limit or be deemed to limit
the authority of the Board or the Committee to grant awards or authorize any other compensation,
with or without reference to the Common Stock, under any other plan or authority.

8.13  Plan Binding on Successors.  The obligations of the Corporation under the Plan
shall be binding upon any successor corporation or organization resulting from the merger,
consolidation or other reorganization of the Corporation, or upon any successor corporation or
organization succeeding to substantially all of the assets and business of the Corporation. The
Corporation agrees that it will make appropriate provisions for the preservation of all
Participants  rights under the Plan in any agreement or plan that it may enter into or adopt to
effect any such merger, consolidation, reorganization or transfer of assets.

-28- 

</EX-10.18>

<EX-10.23>
 4
 w26699exv10w23.htm
 EX-10.23

exv10w23 

Exhibit 10.23 

FANNIE MAE 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT 

THIS PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT ( Agreement ), entered into on February 7, 2000, but effective
as of January 1, 2000 ( Effective Date  ), is entered into by and between:

WHEREAS, Fannie Mae, recognizing Contractor s unique skills, abilities and experience, desires
to retain Contractor s professional services; and

WHEREAS, Contractor desires to perform professional services for Fannie Mae, subject to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement.

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:

1. SERVICES

Contractor agrees to provide advisory services to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Fannie Mae on matters relating to Fannie Mae s corporate strategy, corporate finance, industry
relations, public policy and international securities distribution. Contractor further agrees to
continue his participation in leading cultural, philanthropic, educational and research
institutions so as to maintain and enhance Fannie Mae s visibility and leadership. Collectively,
the activities described in this Section 1 shall be deemed the  Services. 

2. COMPENSATION AND OTHER BENEFITS

(a)  Compensation.  Fannie Mae shall pay Contractor no less than $375,000 per
year, payable on a monthly basis commencing on January 31, 2000. Contractor s

annual compensation shall be increased (but in no case decreased) by any discretionary amounts
determined by Fannie Mae and, at the start of each calendar year after 2000, by the percentage
increase during the prior calendar year in the  Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and
Clerical Workers   All Items  compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics or any replacement index.

(b)  Support Services and Reimbursement Arrangements . Contractor shall be provided with
the services of two Fannie Mae employees as support staff, with the particular employees made
available being mutually agreed to by Fannie Mae and Contractor. On a monthly basis, Contractor
shall reimburse Fannie Mae for all costs, including salary and benefits, for any services performed
for Contractor by such support staff that is unrelated to the Services. For purposes of such
reimbursement, Contractor, in good faith, shall allocate the services performed for Contractor by
such support staff between those related to the Services and those unrelated to the Services
( Support Staff Reimbursement ). Contractor shall have access to a car and driver provided by
Fannie Mae on up to a one-half time basis, determined on a monthly basis. On a monthly basis,
pursuant to invoice by Fannie Mae, Contractor will reimburse Fannie Mae, at Fannie Mae s cost, for
Contractor s use of such car and driver ( Transportation Reimbursement  and, together with Support
Staff Reimbursement,  Contractor Staff Reimbursement ).

(c)  Reimbursement of Expenses . On a monthly basis, pursuant to invoice by Contractor,
Fannie Mae will reimburse Contractor for out-of-pocket travel and entertainment expenses (other
than Contractor Staff Reimbursement expenses) incurred by him in his performance of the Services.
Contractor will incur and request reimbursement for such expenses in accordance with the Fannie Mae
standards and

2 

procedures that applied to Contractor during his employment at Fannie Mae. Contractor will bear all
other costs of providing the Services, including but not limited to rent and other office expenses,
phone charges, cost of the purchase, maintenance and operation of computers, fax machines and other
office equipment and tax and financial planning expenses. To the extent Fannie Mae furnishes
Contractor with office equipment, Contractor will reimburse Fannie Mae at Fannie Mae s adjusted
book cost for such equipment.

(d)  Office Furniture . Fannie Mae shall provide Contractor with such office furniture
previously used by him as Chairman of the Executive Committee during 1999 that is owned by Fannie
Mae as he chooses in exchange for a $2,000 contribution by Contractor to a charity of his choice.

(e)  In-Kind Items . To the extent that Fannie Mae is unable to provide Contractor with
any in-kind item required to be provided to him under this Agreement, Fannie Mae shall make a cash
payment to Contractor equal to the cost of obtaining such item from a third-party vendor.

(f)  General Policy for Former Senior Executives . If Fannie Mae adopts a general policy
of providing former senior executives with post-retirement office space, office support or like
items, Contractor, at his election, may elect to terminate this Agreement and receive such items
pursuant to such policy.

3 

3. OWNERSHIP RIGHTS; RIGHTS TO INNOVATIONS

(a)  Innovations . The term  Innovation  shall mean computer software (including source
and object code), databases, documentation, reports, processes, procedures, improvements,
inventions, discoveries, concepts, know-how, ideas, designs, videos, methods, methodologies,
developments, drawings, notes and materials along with any modifications, improvements or
derivative works relating thereto, produced, created, conceived or worked on by Contractor, either
solely or jointly with others, which result from, relate to or are otherwise connected with the
Services rendered pursuant to this Agreement.

(b)  Intellectual Property Rights . The term  Intellectual Property Rights  shall mean
all copyrights, patents, patent rights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and other
proprietary, intellectual, industrial and moral rights of whatever nature, including all
applications therefore.

(c)  Exclusive Property Rights of Fannie Mae . All Innovations produced or created
pursuant to this Agreement, whether solely by Contractor, or jointly with others, shall belong
solely and exclusively to Fannie Mae, which will possess all ownership rights in and to such
Innovations and all Intellectual Property Rights (as defined above)
associated therewith. Fannie
Mae (including its successors and assigns) shall have the right to obtain and to hold in its own
name all such patents, copyrights, registrations or such other Intellectual Property Rights and
protection as may be appropriate.

(d)  Assignment . To effectuate the foregoing, it is expressly understood and
acknowledged that all Innovations shall be works made for hire under the U.S. copyright laws and
that all Intellectual Property Rights in and to each Innovation shall vest in Fannie Mae on the
date such Innovation is created. In the event that, under applicable

4 

law, all Intellectual Property Rights do not vest in Fannie Mae, Contractor hereby irrevocably
transfers, conveys and assigns in perpetuity to Fannie Mae (including its successors and assigns)
any and all present and future Intellectual Property Rights which such persons may have in or to
any Innovations. Contractor irrevocably waives all moral rights in, and all other Intellectual
Property Rights to, all Innovations.

(e)  Assistance . Contractor agrees to execute applications, assignments and other
documents and to render all other reasonable assistance requested by Fannie Mae, at Fannie Mae s
expense, to enable Fannie Mae to obtain, register and enforce domestic and foreign patents,
copyrights, trademarks and other Intellectual Property Rights for the Innovations. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, Contractor hereby irrevocably appoints Fannie Mae as attorney in fact (coupled with
an interest) to execute any such instruments. The foregoing powers of attorney and the obligations
to assist and execute shall survive termination of this Agreement for any reason.

(f)  No License . Except to the extent necessary for Contractor to perform the Services,
no license to Contractor under any Intellectual Property Rights which is now or may hereafter be
owned by Fannie Mae is either granted or implied by this Agreement.

4. PROPRIETARY INFORMATION

(a)  Proprietary Information .  Proprietary Information  shall mean, (i) information
disclosed by or on behalf of either party relating to product development strategy and activity,
corporate assessments and strategic plans, financial and statistical information, corporate
developments, accounting information, software, systems, processes, formulae, inventions,
discoveries, technical know-how, procedures, pricing, marketing strategies, policies, guidelines,
practices, suppliers, prospects, customers, disputes or litigation, (ii) other confidential,
proprietary or trade secret information

5 

disclosed by or on behalf of such person or entity that is identified in writing as such at the
time of its disclosure, (iii) all other confidential, proprietary or trade secret information
disclosed by or on behalf of such person or entity, which a reasonable person employed in the
mortgage industry would recognize as such, (iv) information relating to such person s or entity s
employees, contractors or customers which, if released, would cause an unlawful or actionable
invasion of privacy, and (v) compilations or summaries of information or data that is itself
Proprietary Information. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Contractor acknowledges
and agrees that (x) any computer software and programs (including object and source codes),
computer software and data base technologies, systems, structures and architectures provided to
Contractor by or on behalf of Fannie Mae and (y) all Innovations (as defined above) are the
Proprietary Information of Fannie Mae. The terms of this Agreement (as well as all information
regarding the negotiation of this Agreement) shall be the Proprietary
Information of both parties.

(b)  Protection . All Proprietary Information disclosed by one party to the
other in the course of performing under this Agreement or to which the other gains access in
connection with this Agreement shall be deemed to be the property of the disclosing party, or
the appropriate third-party owner, as the case may be. The receiving party agrees to (i) receive
such Proprietary Information in confidence, (ii) use reasonable efforts to maintain the
confidentiality of such Proprietary Information and not disclose such Proprietary Information to
third parties (except for the receiving party s employees, agents and subcontractors who have a
need to know, are under a duty of nondisclosure with respect to such information, and are acting
for the sole benefit of the receiving

6 

party), which efforts shall accord such Proprietary Information at least the same level of
protection against unauthorized use and disclosure that the receiving party customarily accords to
the receiving party s own information of a similar nature, but in no event less than a reasonable
standard of care, (iii) use or permit the use of such Proprietary Information solely in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement, and (iv) promptly notify the disclosing party in writing of any
loss or unauthorized use, disclosure or access of the disclosing party s Proprietary Information of
which the receiving party becomes aware. Neither party shall take any physical or electronic forms
of Proprietary Information from the other s offices (or make copies of such Proprietary
Information) without the other party s written permission. Each party agrees to abide by and
reproduce and include any restrictive legend or proprietary rights notice that appears in or on any
Proprietary Information of the other party (or other third-party owner) that such party is
authorized to reproduce. Each party also agrees not to remove, alter, cover or distort any
trademark, trade name, copyright or other proprietary rights notices, legends, symbols or labels
appearing on or in any Proprietary Information of the other party (or other third-party owner).

(c)  Exclusions . The restrictions on use and disclosure set forth above shall not
apply when, and to the extent that, the receiving party can demonstrate that the Proprietary
Information: (i) is or becomes generally available to the public through no fault of the receiving
party (or anyone acting on such party s behalf); (ii) was previously rightfully known to the
receiving party free of any obligation to keep it confidential, (iii) is subsequently disclosed to
the receiving party by a third party who may rightfully transfer and disclose such information
without restriction and free of any obligation to

7 

keep it confidential; (iv) is independently developed by the receiving party or a third party
without reference to the disclosed Proprietary Information; or (v) is required to be disclosed by
the receiving party as a matter of law or compulsory process, provided that in the case of this
paragraph (v), the receiving party uses all reasonable efforts to provide the disclosing party with
at least 10 days  prior notice of such disclosure and the receiving party discloses only that
portion of the Proprietary Information that is legally required to be furnished pursuant to the
opinion of legal counsel of the receiving party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither party shall
disclose, or permit the disclosure of, the terms or conditions of this Agreement without the prior
written consent of the other party, except (A) as provided in subparagraph (v) above, (B) to the
extent necessary to permit the exercise of rights or the performance of obligations under this
Agreement, or (C) to seek advice from attorneys, accountants or other professional advisors. 

5. TERM AND TERMINATION

(a)  Term . This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall initially
continue and remain in force for three (3) years (the  Initial Term ). The Initial Term shall be
extended automatically for one additional day for each day that elapses during the Term (each an
 Extension,  and the Initial Term, as so extended, the  Term ). Fannie Mae, for any reason, may
eliminate any further Extension of the then-existing Term by providing a written notice of such
elimination to Contractor. Fannie Mae may terminate the Term immediately for Cause, as more fully
described in Section 5(b)(i). Contractor may terminate the Term on written notice to Fannie Mae at
any time.

(b)  Termination .

(i) Fannie Mae may terminate this Agreement prior to the expiration of its Term for Cause,
which shall mean that Contractor has materially breached this

8 

Agreement by engaging in dishonest or fraudulent actions or willful misconduct that is materially
injurious to the business of Fannie Mae. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement shall not be
deemed to have been terminated for Cause without (x) reasonable notice from Fannie Mae to
Contractor setting forth the reasons for Fannie Mae s intention to terminate for Cause, (y) an
opportunity for Contractor, together with his counsel, to be heard before the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of Fannie Mae and (z) delivery to Contractor of a notice of termination from the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer stating his good faith opinion that Contractor was guilty of
the conduct set forth in this Section 5(b)(i) and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. No
act or failure to act will be considered  willful  unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by
Contractor in bad faith or without reasonable belief that his action of omission was in, or not
opposed to, the best interests of Fannie Mae.

(ii) This Agreement will terminate on the death of Contractor In the event that, during the
Term of this Agreement, Contractor is prevented from performing his duties hereunder by reason of
serious illness or incapacity, Fannie Mae shall have the right, on 60 days  prior written notice to
Contractor, to terminate this Agreement.

(c)  Return of Property Upon Termination . Contractor or his personal representative
shall deliver to Fannie Mae, within 10 days of termination of this Agreement or, in the case of
termination by death, within a reasonable time, all (i) work in progress under this Agreement, (ii)
Fannie Mae property and (iii) materials containing or embodying Proprietary Information and
Innovations. Contractor will make or retain no partial or entire copies of any of the foregoing and
will destroy all computer files containing such data and materials. Fannie Mae shall deliver all
Contractor property to

9 

Contractor or his personal representative within 10 days of termination of this Agreement.

6. NON-COMPETITION

Considering the highly confidential and proprietary nature of Fannie Mae s information to
which Contractor is likely to have access hereunder and the highly competitive marketplace in which
Fannie Mae participates, Contractor agrees that until one year after the termination of this
Agreement, he will not knowingly provide services to the detriment of Fannie Mae that are directly
or indirectly for the benefit of any entity (or affiliate of an entity) engaged directly or
indirectly in competition with Fannie Mae, including without limitation the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ). In the event Contractor is uncertain as to whether an entity
engages in competition with Fannie Mae, he shall seek a determination by Chairman and Chief
Executive Office of Fannie Mae, whose decision shall be binding. The foregoing obligation is in
addition to, and not in substitution for, Contractor s obligations (a) hereunder to maintain Fannie
Mae Proprietary Information in confidence and (b) under the Agreement on Ideas, Inventions and
Confidential Information executed by Fannie Mae and Contractor when he was an employee of Fannie
Mae.

7. LEGAL FEES AND INDEMNIFICATION

(a)  Legal Fees . Fannie Mae shall pay Contractor s reasonable legal fees and
disbursements incurred in the negotiation of this Agreement or in defending (or participating in)
any challenge to (or investigation of) this Agreement by any third party.

(b)  Indemnification . Fannie Mae shall exonerate, indemnify, hold harmless and defend
Contractor (and make advances of expenses in connection therewith) for

10 

actions taken or omitted pursuant to this Agreement to the same extent as for actions taken or
omitted when he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Fannie Mae.

8. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(a)  Independent Contractor . During the term of this Agreement, Contractor shall at all
times be and act as an independent contractor, and not as an employee of Fannie Mae. Contractor
shall not represent otherwise to any third party. Except by reason of his prior employment by
Fannie Mae, Contractor will not participate in any employee benefit program offered now or in the
future by Fannie Mae to its employees. In making payments to Contractor of the compensation
described above, Contractor will not withhold taxes of any kind, including income taxes, FICA, FUTA
or other statutory withholding or employment taxes applicable to employees. To the extent required
by law, Fannie Mae will report to the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities all
payments made to Contractor. In consultation with Fannie Mae, Contractor, as an independent
contractor, will be responsible for filing all lobbying disclosure or other forms, if any, required
to be filed by law as a result of the Services performed by Contractor.

(b)  Effect on Other Benefits . This Agreement shall not affect Contractor s rights to
payments under Fannie Mae s Executive Pension Plan or to any other benefits payable to Contractor
by reason of his prior employment by Fannie Mae.

(c)  Assignment . This Agreement may not be assigned by Contractor by operation of law
or otherwise.

(d)  Taxation . Fannie Mae is exempt from all state and local taxes, except
certain taxes on real property, pursuant to Section 309(c)(2) of the Federal National Mortgage
Association Charter Act, 12 U.S.C.   1723a(c)(2). Fannie Mae will not be

11 

responsible for any such taxes paid by Contractor on its behalf, and Contractor will not bill or
charge Fannie Mae for said taxes.

(e)  Force Majeure . Neither party shall be responsible for delays or failure of
performance resulting from acts beyond the reasonable control of such party (such as acts of God,
riots, acts of war and epidemics, power failures, earthquakes or other disasters) providing such
delay or failure of performance could not have been prevented by reasonable precautions and cannot
reasonably be circumvented by such party through the use of alternate sources, workaround plans or
other means.

(f)  No Implied Waiver . No term, provision or clause of this Agreement shall be deemed
waived and no breach excused unless such waiver or consent shall be in writing and executed by a
duly authorized representative of the party to be bound thereby. Any consent by any party to, or
waiver of, a breach by the other, expressed or implied, shall not constitute a consent to, waiver
of or excuse for any other different or subsequent breach.

(g)  Governing Law; Severability . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the District of Columbia, without reference to or application of its,
or any otherwise applicable, conflicts of law principles. In the event that any provision of this
Agreement shall be invalid and legally unenforceable, the parties shall replace that provision with
one that most nearly reflects their original intentions and is valid and enforceable under
applicable law, and the same shall not affect in any respect whatsoever the validity and
enforceability of the remainder of this Agreement.

12 

(h)  Jurisdiction and Venue . Any and all disputes between the parties that cannot
be settled by mutual agreement shall be resolved solely and exclusively in the courts located
within the District of Columbia, and Contractor hereby consents to the jurisdiction of such courts
and irrevocably waives any objections thereto, including without limitation, on the basis of
improper venue or  forum non conveniens. 

(i)  Injunctive Relief . Contractor understands and agrees that Fannie Mae will suffer
irreparable harm in the event that Contractor breaches any of the obligations imposed by Section 3
(Ownership Rights; Rights to Innovations), Section 4 (Proprietary Information) or Section 6
(Non-Competition), of this Agreement and that monetary damages will be inadequate to compensate
Fannie Mae for any such breach.

Accordingly, Contractor agrees that, in the event of a breach or
threatened breach of any of such provisions, Fannie Mae, in addition to and not in limitation of
any other rights, remedies or damages available to Fannie Mae at law or in equity, shall be
entitled to preliminary and permanent injunctive relief in order to prevent or restrain any such
breach without the necessity of proving damages or irreparable harm, or posting bond. In the event
of any violation of Section 6 (Non-Competition), the time period therein shall be extended for the
period of breach (but not more than an additional 12 months).

(j)  Notice . All notices, requests, demands and other communications required or
permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been received by a party when
actually received in the case of hand delivery (against a signed receipt) or overnight delivery, or
five days after mailing by first-class mail, postage paid, to the other party at the address shown
on page one hereof, or to such other address as a party may designate by appropriate notice in
writing.

13 

(k)  Examination of Books and Records . Fannie Mae shall have the right to examine
Contractor s books, records and other documentation, in each case to the extent relating to the
Services (for billing or other reasonable purposes). Contractor shall make such information
available to Fannie Mae during normal business hours upon reasonable notice to Contractor.

(1)  Code of Business Conduct . Contractor shall comply with Fannie Mae s Code of
Business Conduct ( Code ), as the same may be amended from time to time, for the duration of this
Agreement. A copy of the Code is attached hereto as Schedule A. Contractor shall execute the
compliance certification form attached hereto as Schedule B (Code of Business Contract Compliance
Certification), and such certification shall be incorporated herein and made a part of this
Agreement. If at any time Contractor believes that he has not complied with the Code or become
aware of an incident of non-compliance, Contractor shall promptly notify Fannie Mae, in writing,
directing its notice to the Office of Corporate Justice and
Employment Practices at 3900 Wisconsin
Avenue, N. W., Washington, D.C. 20016; or via facsimile at (202) 752-3311.

(m)  Survival . The terms of Section 3 (Ownership Rights; Rights to
Innovations), Section 4 (Proprietary Information), Section 6 (Non-Competition) and Section 7
(Legal Fees and Indemnification), as well as any other provisions which contemplates performance
or observance subsequent to any termination or expiration of this Agreement, shall survive
termination or expiration of this Agreement for any reason and shall continue in full force and
effect.

(n)  Amendment.  This Agreement may be amended only by a writing executed by both
parties.

14 

(o)  Construction . No provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted or
construed against any party because that party or its legal representative drafted that provision.
The captions and headings of the Sections of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only
and are not to be considered in construing this Agreement. Unless the context of this Agreement
clearly requires otherwise: (i) references to the plural include the singular, the singular the
plural, and the part the whole, (ii) references to one gender include all genders, (iii)  or  has
the inclusive meaning frequently identified with the phrase  and/or,  (iv)  including  has the
inclusive meaning frequently identified with the phrase  including but not limited to  or
 including without limitation,  (v) references to  hereunder,   herein  or  hereof relate to this
Agreement as a whole, and (vi) the terms  dollars  and
 $  refer to United States dollars. Any
accounting term used herein without specific definition shall have the meaning ascribed thereto by
U.S. generally accepted accounting practices. Section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, exhibit
and schedule references are to this Agreement as originally executed unless otherwise specified.
Any reference herein to any statute, rule, regulation or agreement, including this Agreement, shall
be deemed to include such statute, rule, regulation or agreement as it may be modified, varied,
amended or supplemented from time to time. Any reference herein to any person shall be deemed to
include the heirs, personal representatives, successors and permitted assigns of such person.

(p)  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts,
each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute a
single agreement.

15 

(q)  Entire Agreement . This Agreement, together with any exhibits, addenda,
schedules and amendments relating hereto, sets forth the entire understanding between Fannie Mae
and Contractor with respect to the Services. There are no promises, commitments, representations or
warranties relied upon by either party which are not contained herein.

(r)  Facsimiles . The parties acknowledge and agree that copies of executed
documents received via facsimile shall be deemed to be originals for all purposes.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement.

Agreed to and Accepted by:

FANNIE MAE 

/s/ James A. Johnson 

JAMES A. JOHNSON

By:

/s/ Thomas R. Nides

Date : 2-8-00 

Thomas
R. Nides,

Senior
Vice President,

Human
Resources

Date:
February 7, 2000

16 

PERSEUS 

2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 900 Washington, DC 20006-1813 
Telephone: 202 452 0101             Facsimile: 202 429 0588 

April 18, 2005

Mr. Stephen B. Ashley 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
Fannie Mae 
3900 Wisconsin Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC 20016

Dear Steve:

I have been very pleased to have been able to advise Fannie Mae on a wide range of issues since my
years as an employee came to an end in 1999. I believe this continued association has gone well
beyond what would be expected of a retired CEO.

I have watched closely the many tough decisions that the company has confronted recently involving
capital, real estate, expenses, and even the suspension of management bonuses. I also noted that
the press has reported that the company is reducing expenditures for lobbyists and consultants. I
have concluded that, in the context of my ongoing advisory assistance, I should do my part to
assist in Fannie Mae s efforts to reduce expenditures at this difficult time.

Therefore, I am voluntarily taking the following steps with respect to my consulting agreement with
the company in order to reduce and streamline our relationship:

A temporary reduction of my consulting payments to $300,000 per year, which is a 30.2%
reduction from what I am currently being paid, until the company files its restated
financial statements with the SEC. 

A reduction in the notice period for termination under the consulting agreement from
three years to two years, to provide greater flexibility for the company. 

Termination of all of the administrative support and automobile
transportation which the company provides to me, including support subject to my
reimbursement. 

Transition arrangements for the Fannie Mae personnel will have to be worked out with the Fannie Mae
Human Resources Department. Whether the relevant employees decide to return to traditional Fannie
Mae positions, or to terminate Fannie Mae employment and work with me, my goal would be to complete
the transition in forty-five days and in any event by June 30, 2005.

Under my consulting agreement, I have no obligation to take any of the above-described actions. As
you know, the consulting agreement does not provide for Company amendments except by mutual
agreement, which this letter represents.

We both acknowledge that I may serve on the board of directors of enterprises that have business
with Fannie Mae. Consistent with my past approach, I agree that I will recuse myself from the
deliberations of any such board that relate to Fannie Mae business, and in the case of any such
enterprise I will not advise with respect to, or otherwise assist or participate in, any such
dealings. Fannie Mae agrees that the term  Services  as used in my consulting agreement does not
include any services that pertain to the business (i) of any enterprise as to which I am a member
of the board of directors or similar body, or (ii) for which I serve as an advisor.

I believe Fannie Mae s role in the American housing financial system is absolutely vital, and I
look forward to continuing to be of assistance to the board and to management and to fulfilling
my obligations under the consulting agreement.

Sincerely,

/s/ James A. Johnson

James A. Johnson

ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED: 

/s/ Stephen B. Ashley

Stephen B. Ashley

Chairman of the Board of Directors

Fannie Mae

</EX-10.23>

<EX-10.24>
 5
 w26699exv10w24.htm
 EX-10.24

exv10w24 

Exhibit 10.24 

CONFIDENTIAL AND LEGALLY PRIVILEGED  

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 

between 

FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION 

and 

DAVID O. MAXWELL 

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT , effective as of the 21st day of November, 1989, by and between the
FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (the  Corporation ) and DAVID O. MAXWELL ( Employee ),

WITNESSETH THAT: 

WHEREAS , Employee has been employed by the Corporation as the Chairman of its Board of
Directors (the  Board ) and Chief Executive Officer continuously since May 21, 1981;

WHEREAS , the terms and conditions of Employee s employment by the Corporation are set forth
in an Employment Agreement, dated as of November 15, 1988 (the  Employment Agreement  and

WHEREAS , in view of the Corporation s outstanding operating results the Corporation desires to
amend and extend the term of the Employment Agreement; and

WHEREAS ,
the terms of this Agreement were duly approved and authorized for and on behalf of the Corporation by the Board at a meeting held on November 21,
1989, at which meeting a quorum was present and voted, and the Chairman of the Compensation
Committee of the Board was authorized to finalize and enter into this Agreement with Employee on
behalf of the Corporation;

NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual promises and covenants
herein contained, the parties hereto agree to substitute the provisions of this Agreement, in their
entirety, for the provisions of the Employment Agreement.

2

A.    EMPLOYMENT TERM  

1.  
       
       Term and Duties   

(a) The Corporation hereby agrees to employ Employee as Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, and Employee hereby agrees to serve in
such capacity, upon the terms and conditions herein contained, for a term ending on the
later of (i) January 31, 1991 and (ii) the last day of the month in which a successor
Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation is employed and assumes the duties of his
office, but not later than the last day of the month in which is held the Annual
Meeting of the Stockholders of the Corporation in 1991. As used
in this Agreement,  Employment Term  shall mean the period of time from November 21,
1989 until the later of (i) January 31, 1991 and (ii) the last day of the month in
which a successor Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation is employed and assumes
the duties of his office, plus any extension of such period pursuant to Paragraph l(c)
below or otherwise pursuant to the written agreement of the parties.

(b) Employee shall perform such duties for the Corporation as may be determined
from time to time by the Board; provided, that such duties are reasonable and
customary for a chairman and chief executive officer and do not require Employee to
relocate his residence from Washington, D.C.

(c) The Corporation and Employee acknowledge that the Employment Term may be
extended for an additional period by mutual written agreement.

3 

2.  
       
       Annual Salary   

(a) During the Employment Term, the Corporation shall continue to pay to Employee an
annual base salary of not less than $650,000, payable in equal bi-weekly installments on the same
dates the other officers of the Corporation are paid. Employee s base annual salary payable
pursuant to this Paragraph (including any increases therein approved by the Board pursuant to this
Paragraph) is hereinafter referred to as  Employee s Basic Compensation. 

(b) The Corporation and Employee acknowledge that the Board shall, from time to time, review
Employee s Basic Compensation and may increase (but in no event decrease) such payments by such
amounts as the Board deems proper. The criteria which the Board may take into consideration in
providing for any such increases are the base compensation payable to chairmen and chief executive
officers of comparable financial institutions, Employee s ability and performance, the success
achieved by the Corporation, the total economic return to the Corporation s shareholders,
increases in the cost of living, the relationship of the Corporation to its constituents and the
public and all such other criteria as the Board may deem relevant.

3.  
       
      Employee s Rights Under Certain     Plans Now or Hereafter
in Effect   

(a)    Executive Pension Plan  . Employee and the Corporation acknowledge that Employee
previously waived any and all rights which he or his surviving spouse may have had under the

4

Deferred Compensation Contract (formerly called the  10-Year Deferred Compensation Agreement
Program ) and under the Retirement Supplement Award Plan (formerly called the  Incentive
Performance Annuity Plan ), and that the Corporation has designated Employee as a participant in
the Executive Pension Plan of the Federal National Mortgage Association (the  Executive Pension
Plan ). Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Executive Pension Plan to the contrary, the
following provisions shall apply to Employee:

(i) 
       
 Employee s Pension Goal under the Executive
Pension Plan shall at all times be equal to at least 60% of his High-Three Total Compensation, as
such terms are defined in the Executive Pension Plan, and as modified by this Paragraph 

(ii) 
       
     Employee s High-Three Total Compensation shall be determined by
reference to the three (3) calendar years or partial calendar years of employment,
whether or not consecutive, preceding his termination of employment for any reason
or death while employed by the Corporation during which his Total Compensation, as
defined in Subparagraph 3(a)(iii) below, was the highest; 

(iii) 
       
     Employee s  Total Compensation  means Employee s Basic Compensation,
including amounts deferred by Employee under the Federal National Mortgage
Association Optional Deferred Compensation Plan, and any successor plan or plans
thereto, and amounts which, pursuant to the election of Employee, the 

5

Corporation has contributed to any cash or deferred arrangement
qualified under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Total
Compensation shall also include (A) 100% of any cash bonuses
awarded to Employee by the Corporation, pursuant to the terms of
the Federal National Mortgage Association Annual Incentive Plan
(the  Annual Incentive Plan ) or otherwise, with respect to the
calendar year in which it is earned and (B) 100% of the amount of
any cash paid and the fair market value on the date of delivery of
any stock transferred to Employee pursuant to the terms of the
Performance Share provisions of the Federal National Mortgage
Association Stock Compensation Plan, or any successor plan, with
respect to the calendar year in which such cash and stock is paid
and delivered; provided, however, that for purposes of the
Executive
Pension Plan 100% of any cash and stock paid and
delivered with respect to the 1988-1990 award cycle shall be deemed
to have been paid and delivered in
1990, and 100% of any cash and stock paid and delivered with
respect to the 1989-1991 award cycle shall be deemed to have been
paid and delivered in
1991. Employee s Total Compensation shall not include any cash or
the fair market value of any stock paid to Employee pursuant to the
terms of the
Federal National Mortgage Association 1984 Stock 

6 

Option Plan or the Stock Option or Restricted Stock provisions of the Federal
National Mortgage Association Stock Compensation Plan, or any successor plans; 

(iv) 
       
     The Corporation acknowledges that Employee has previously satisfied the requirements for
full vesting in the benefits afforded under the Executive Pension Plan as modified by this
Paragraph  

(v) 
       
     At the termination of his employment for any reason, Employee shall be paid the
actuarially equivalent value of the benefits due under the Executive Pension Plan, as modified by
this Paragraph 3, in the form of a single lump cash sum determined on the basis of a joint and 100%
survivor annuity as provided in such plan and the actuarial assumptions used in funding the Federal
National Mortgage Association Retirement Plan for Employees Not Covered Under Civil Service
Retirement Law for the year ending December 31, 1981, which assumptions included an interest rate
of 6%, or such assumptions in effect on the date of Employee s termination of employment, if more
favorable to Employee; 

(vi) 
       
     If Employee dies before the commencement of payments to him under the Executive Pension
Plan, his Surviving Spouse, as such term is defined in such plan, if any, shall be paid in a
single lump cash sum an amount equal to the amount that would have 

7 

been due Employee under the Executive Pension Plan, as modified by this Paragraph 3,
had he terminated employment on the day prior to his date of death; 

(vii) 
       
     No actuarial
reduction based on age shall be applied against any benefits payable to Employee or
his Surviving Spouse under the Executive Pension Plan; 

(viii) 
       
     Employee or his Surviving Spouse, if any, shall be paid his or her entire
benefits under the Executive Pension Plan in cash within ten (10) days after the
date of Employee s termination of employment for any reason or death, as
applicable, regardless of the age of Employee or his Surviving Spouse at such time;
and 

(ix) 
       
     No amendment of the Executive Pension Plan shall
decrease the benefits to which Employee or his Surviving Spouse, if any, would
have been entitled under such plan as in effect on the date hereof and modified by
this Paragraph 3. 

(b)  Stock Options .  Employee shall have the right to
exercise any vested Incentive Stock Option and any vested Non-qualified Stock Option, whenever
granted, until it expires by its terms, regardless of whether Employee is employed by the Corporation at the time of such exercise or cancellation. All stock options granted as of July 15, 1986
that shall not already be vested on January 31, 1990 shall vest on such date if Employee is still
employed by the Corporation under this Agreement on such date.

8 
 All stock options granted as of November 15, 1988 that shall not already be vested on January 31,
1991 shall vest on such date if Employee is still employed by the Corporation under this Agreement
on such date.

(c)  Annual Incentive Plan .  Employee s Maximum Potential Award as such term is
defined in the Corporation s Annual Incentive Plan for each year during the Employment Term shall
be at least 80% of Employee s Basic Compensation. The amount to be paid with respect to such Award
for each such year shall be determined by the extent to which any Corporate Goals, as such term
is defined in such plan, are attained. Employee s Award to be earned in any year after 1990 in
which Employee is not employed by the Corporation under this Agreement for the full year because of
the expiration of the Employment Term, but in which he is employed for at least five (5) months of
such year, shall be paid pro rata in January of the next following year based upon the extent to
which any Corporate Goals are attained and the number of months Employee is employed by the
Corporation under this Agreement during the year in which such Award is earned.

(d)
 Restricted Stock .  All shares of restricted stock granted to Employee as of July
15, 1986 and November 18, 1986 that shall not already be vested on January 31, 1990 shall vest on
such date if Employee is still employed by the Corporation under this Agreement on such date.

(e)  Performance Shares .  If Employee is still employed by the Corporation under this
Agreement on the last day of the month in which is held the Annual Meeting of the Stockholders of

9 

the
Corporation in 1990, Performance Shares granted for the 1988-1990 award cycle shall be paid in
full (rather than pro rata) in January 1991, based upon the extent to which the corporate goals
established for such award cycle are actually attained by the end of such award cycle. If Employee
is still employed by the Corporation under this Agreement on January 31, 1991, Performance Shares
granted for the 1989-1991 award cycle shall be paid pro rata in January 1992, based upon the extent
to which the corporate goals established for such award cycle are actually attained by the end of
such award cycle and the number of months Employee is employed by the Corporation under this
Agreement during such award cycle. Employee s Performance Shares, whenever granted, shall not be
subject to deferral beyond the January following the end of the award cycle in which they are
earned.

(f)  General Rights Under Benefit Plans .  The parties hereto agree that nothing
contained herein is intended to or shall be deemed to affect adversely any of Employee s rights as
a participant under any long or short-term bonus, stock option, restricted stock or other
executive compensation plans, or under any perquisite, disability, retirement, stock purchase,
thrift and savings, health, medical, life insurance, or similar plans of the Corporation now or
hereafter in effect. Employee shall at all times during the Employment Term be entitled to
participate in all long or short-term bonus, stock option, restricted stock and other executive
compensation plans, and in all perquisite, disability, retirement, stock purchase, thrift and
savings, health, medical, life insurance, and similar plans of the Corporation which are

10

from time to time in effect and in which other senior officers of the Corporation are
entitled to participate. The Corporation shall pay or reimburse Employee for all reasonable travel
expenses incurred by Employee s spouse in accompanying Employee on his trips made on behalf of the
Corporation during the Employment Term. During any period in which Employee, his spouse or other
dependents are entitled to health and medical coverage pursuant to any provision of this Agreement,
such coverage shall include the prompt payment or reimbursement of any and all medical, dental and
hospitalization expenses, even if not covered by the Corporation s health and medical plans,
including, without limitation, the cost of a private room in any health care facility. Except as
otherwise provided in this Agreement, Employee s participation in such plans shall be in accordance
with the provisions of such plans applicable from time to time, it being the intention of the
parties hereto that nothing in this Agreement shall decrease the rights and benefits of Employee or
his spouse or other dependents under any such plans as may be in effect from time to time. If for
any reason any benefits payable pursuant to this Agreement cannot be paid under the Corporation s
employee benefit or executive compensation plans, such payments shall be made out of the general
assets of the Corporation.

4.  
       
      Termination Without Cause or Termination    or Resignation
Upon a Change of Control   

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision hereunder, the Corporation shall have the right to
terminate Employee s employment hereunder without cause at any time during the Employment

11 
 Term for any reason in the sole discretion of the Corporation by not less than ninety (90) days 
prior written notice to Employee. If Employee s employment is terminated pursuant to the
immediately preceding sentence or if, within six (6) months after a Change of Control (as
hereinafter defined), Employee s employment is terminated by the Corporation or Employee for any
reason:

(i) 
       
     the Corporation shall immediately pay Employee the amount of
any bonus previously earned but not paid, in addition to a bonus equal to
Employee s Maximum Potential Award under the Corporation s Annual Incentive
Plan for the year in which such termination occurs; 

(ii) 
       
     all stock options and restricted stock awards of Employee shall
be immediately vested and all performance shares shall be paid in full computed
on the assumption that 100% of the targeted level of company performance has
been met, and using the date of the termination of his employment as the
valuation date; 

(iii) 
       
     Employee shall continue to participate in all employee welfare
benefit plans, including health and medical plans as modified by Paragraph 3(f)
above, and receive all perquisites until such time, if ever, as Employee shall
obtain comparable benefits from another employer; 

(iv) 
       
     the Corporation shall continue to provide Employee with an
office and secretary as appropriate to his 

12 

former position of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the
Corporation; 

(v) 
       
     the Corporation shall continue to pay Employee Employee s
Basic Compensation in effect at the time of such termination until the
expiration of the Employment Term; 

(vi) 
       
     Employee shall immediately be paid all amounts due under the
Executive Pension Plan in accordance with Paragraph 3 above. 

(b) Upon any material change of Employee s functions, duties or responsibilities which would
for any reason cause Employee s position with the Corporation to become of lesser importance, or
if, for any reason Employee shall no longer be designated as the Chairman of the Corporation,
Employee shall have the right, upon not less than ninety (90) days  written notice to the
Corporation given within a reasonable period of time not to exceed four calendar months after the
event giving rise to said right, to treat such event as a termination
by the Corporation of his employment pursuant to Paragraph 4 (a) above, and all of the provisions of this Agreement applicable
in such case shall then become operative.

(c) In case of a termination pursuant to Paragraph 4 (a) or 4(b) above, Employee shall have no
obligation to seek employment and, if Employee obtains employment, no amount due hereunder shall
be offset against any amount earned pursuant to such employment .

13 

      (d) A  Change of Control  shall have occurred if there is (i) a change in the composition of
a majority of the Board of Directors elected by shareholders within 12 months after any  person 
(as such term is used in Section 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) is or
becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities representing 25 percent or more
of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Corporation, (ii) a change
in the authority of the Corporation to carry on its business that would materially restrict the
general scope of authorized business activities, (iii) a change in the current legal or regulatory
structure, other than one sought by management, that would materially impair the Corporation s
ability to borrow as a  federal agency  borrower, or (iv) an action by the Secretary of HUD to
reduce the ratio of the Corporation s debt to its capital under Section 304(b) of the Charter Act
that would materially affect the Corporation s ability to function as a profitable business.

5.  
       
       Termination by Employee; Breach by Employee   

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision hereunder, Employee shall have the right to terminate
his employment by the Corporation at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Employee by
not less than ninety (90) days  prior written notice to the Corporation. Upon receipt of any such
written notice from Employee, the Corporation shall have the option exercisable by written notice
to Employee within thirty (30) days thereafter to designate any date prior to the expiration of the
aforesaid notice

14

period as the date on which Employee shall cease to be an officer and employee of the
Corporation, and the effective date of termination hereunder shall be any such earlier date so
designated by the Corporation.

(b) Notwithstanding any other provision hereunder, the Corporation may terminate Employee s
employment hereunder for  Cause  which shall mean that Employee has materially breached this
Agreement by engaging in dishonest or fraudulent actions or willful misconduct that is materially
injurious to the business of the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employee shall not be
deemed to have been terminated for Cause without (i) reasonable notice to Employee setting forth
the reasons for the Corporation s intention to terminate for Cause, (ii) an opportunity for
Employee, together with his counsel, to be heard before the Board and (iii) delivery to Employee of
a notice of termination from the Board stating its good faith opinion that Employee was guilty of
conduct set forth above and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.

(c) In case of a termination pursuant to Paragraph 5(a) or 5(b) above, Employee shall be
entitled to salary accrued to date of termination and any benefits or awards vested prior to such
date, including, without limitation, his right to receive a pension under the Executive Pension
Plan computed in accordance with Paragraph 3 above and his continuing right to exercise any vested
Incentive Stock Option and any vested Nonqualified Stock Option pursuant to Paragraph 3(b) above.
If Employee voluntarily terminates his employment with the Corporation during the Employ-

15

ment Term under circumstances in which a participant in the Federal National Mortgage Association
Retirement Plan for Employees Not Covered Under Civil Service Retirement Law, as in effect on
November 18, 1986, would be eligible for Early Retirement Income, as such term is defined in such
plan, Employee shall be entitled to all retiree benefits and perquisites to which other senior
executives of the Corporation are entitled upon retirement, and he shall continue to participate in
all health and medical plans of the Corporation, as modified by Paragraph 3(f) above, until such
time, if ever, as Employee shall obtain comparable health and medical benefits from a new employer.
The Corporation shall have no further obligations to Employee. Further, in case of a termination
by Employee pursuant to Paragraph 5(a) above (but not in any other case), Employee, for the period
ending on the first anniversary of the effective date of his termination, but in no event ending
after January 31, 1991, shall not compete with the Corporation. As used herein,  compete  shall
mean engaging directly or indirectly in any business or becoming connected directly or indirectly
with any business or firm if a substantial part of such business or the business of any such firm
involves transactions in what is commonly known and referred to as the secondary market in
residential mortgages.

6.
 Resignation as Board Member  

Unless otherwise requested by the Board, at the termination of his employment for any reason,
Employee hereby agrees that he shall simultaneously submit his resignation as a member of the

16

Board in writing on or before the date he ceases to be an employee of the Corporation. If
Employee fails or neglects to submit such resignation in writing, this Paragraph 6 may be deemed by
the Corporation to constitute Employee s written resignation as a member of the Board effective on
the same date that Employee ceases to be an employee of the Corporation. If Employee continues to
serve as a member of the Board at the request of the Board after his termination of employment,
Employee shall be entitled to all benefits provided to other Board members who are not employees of
the Corporation .

B.
 DISABILITY   

7.
 Disability  

(a) If during the Employment Term Employee is prevented from performing his duties
hereunder by reason of serious illness or incapacity, the Corporation shall have the right, on
sixty (60) days  prior written notice to Employee, to terminate Employee s employment. Upon such
termination, Employee shall be deemed to have been terminated without cause and shall be entitled
to receive all payments and benefits set forth in Paragraph 4 above subject to reductions
pursuant to Paragraphs 7(b) and 7(c) below.

(b) Employee shall have the right in his sole discretion after the date of termination
pursuant to Paragraph 7(a) above to engage in regular employment (whether as the employee of
another or as a self-employed person) and shall have no obligation to perform services for the
Corporation. Any income received from such employment shall directly reduce the Corporation s
obligation

17

to pay Employee s Basic Compensation hereunder on a dollar-for-dollar basis, but not below
zero. Any welfare benefits received by Employee in consideration of such employment shall relieve
the Corporation of its obligation to provide comparable benefits hereunder.

(c) If during the Employment Term Employee becomes entitled to and receives disability
benefits under any disability payment plan, including disability insurance, the amount of
Employee s Basic Compensation otherwise payable by the Corporation to Employee pursuant to
Paragraph 7(a) above shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of any such disability
benefits received by him, but only to the extent such benefits are attributable to payments made by
the Corporation.

C.
 RETIREMENT   

8.
 Retirement.  

If Employee is employed by the Corporation under this Agreement on January 31, 1990,
then whenever Employee s employment by the Corporation terminates for any reason, Employee, in
addition to all other pension, retirement and other benefits to which Employee is entitled under
benefit plans of the Corporation and this Agreement or otherwise, shall continue to participate in
all employee welfare benefit plans of the Corporation, including health and medical plans as
modified by Paragraph 3(f) above, until such time, if ever, as Employee shall obtain comparable
benefits from a new employer; provided, however, that Employee shall be considered a retiree for
the purposes of any such plan if such

18

status would result in his obtaining greater benefits under such plan. The Corporation
shall continue to provide Employee with an office and secretary as appropriate to his former
position of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, and shall
continue to pay the cost of his excess personal liability insurance, financial planning and income
tax preparation and annual physical examinations until such time, if ever, as Employee shall obtain
comparable benefits from a new employer. In addition, at the time of Employee s retirement, the
Corporation shall provide him with a new car of a make and model comparable to that provided under
the Corporation s guidelines for its Chief Executive Officer, as in effect at that time.

D.
 DEATH  

9.  Death  

(a) If Employee dies during the Employment Term, in addition to the benefits set forth in
Paragraph 3(a) above, the Corporation shall pay to his surviving spouse during each of the next two
(2) years following the date of Employee s death an amount equal to Employee s Basic Compensation
in effect on the date of his death.

(b) Unless Employee s employment shall have terminated pursuant to Paragraph 5(b) above, after
Employee s death at any time during or after the expiration of the Employment Term, the Corporation
shall continue health and medical coverage, as provided in Paragraph 3(f) above, for Employee s
surviving spouse and other dependents, all at the Corporation s sole expense. In addi-

19 

tion, the Corporation shall reimburse Employee s surviving spouse for her cost of excess
personal liability insurance and financial planning assistance, including income tax return
preparation, as provided to the Employee while employed under this Agreement for the next two (2)
years following the date of Employee s death.

(c) Nothing contained herein shall reduce any benefit payable to such surviving spouse under the
Executive
Pension Plan or under any other qualified or nonqualified pension or welfare plan of the
Corporation.

E.    MISCELLANEOUS  

10.  Enforcement of Agreement  

The Corporation shall reimburse Employee for all legal fees and expenses incurred by him as a
result of any termination of employment hereunder (including all such fees and expenses, if any,
incurred in contesting or disputing any such termination) or in seeking to obtain or enforce any
right or benefit provided by this Agreement.

11.    Assignment by Employee  

The rights and benefits of Employee and his surviving spouse under this Agreement are personal to
him and to her and no such right or benefit shall be subject to voluntary or involuntary
alienation, assignment or transfer.

20 

12.  Waiver  

Failure of either party hereto to insist upon strict compliance by the other party with any term,
covenant or condition hereof shall not be deemed a waiver of such term, covenant or condition, nor
shall any waiver or relinquishment or failure to insist upon strict compliance of any right or
power hereunder at any one time or more times be deemed a waiver or relinquishment of such right or
power at any other time or times.

13.  Notice  

Any notice required or desired to be given pursuant to this Agreement shall be sufficient if in
writing sent by registered or certified mail to the addresses hereinafter set forth or to such
other address as any party hereto may designate in writing, transmitted by hand delivery or by
registered or certified mail to the other.

14.  Applicable Law  

This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the District of Columbia.

15.  Taxes  

The Corporation shall deduct from all amounts paid under this Agreement all federal, state, local
and other taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to such payments.

21 

16.  Benefit  

Except as is otherwise herein expressly provided, this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and
be binding upon the Corporation, its successors and assigns, and upon Employee, his spouse, heirs,
executors and administrators, provided, however, that the obligations of Employee hereunder shall
not be delegated.

17.  Entire Agreement  

The parties hereto agree that this Agreement contains the entire understanding and agreement
between them and cannot be amended, modified or supplemented in any respect except by an agreement
in writing signed by both parties.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the Corporation has caused its name to be ascribed to this Agreement by its
duly authorized representative and Employee has executed this Agreement as of the day and the year
first above written.

Attest: 

FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION  

3900 Wisconsin Avenue, N.W. 

Washington, D.C. 20016 

ILLEGIBLE 

By

ILLEGIBLE 

Chairman of the Compensation

Committee of the Board of Directors 

Witness:

Faith A. Collins 

David O. Maxwell 

DAVID O. MAXWELL 

3525 Springland Lane, N.W. 

Washington, D.C. 20008 

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.25>
 6
 w26699exv10w25.htm
 EX-10.25

exv10w25 

Exhibit 10.25 

Contract
Number  0.286   

March 28, 2001

Mr. Ken Duberstein 
The Duberstein Group 
2100 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Suite 500 
Washington, DC 20037

Dear Mr. Duberstein:

This letter will confirm the terms and conditions between The Duberstein Group ( Consultant ) and
Fannie Mae pursuant to which Consultant agrees to provide services to Fannie Mae in accordance
with the terms set forth below.

1. Services and Deliverables  

Consultant shall provide consulting services related to legislative and regulatory issues, and
associated matters of importance to Fannie Mae.

2. Point of Contact and Notices  

Consultant s
point of contact with Fannie Mae will be Domenic Grillo at (202) 752-4702, or other
Fannie Mae personnel assigned by a Vice President of Fannie Mae, in connection with the services
to be rendered under this Agreement.

Any notice(s) furnished pursuant to this Agreement will be made by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or delivered in person or by courier, as follows:

If to Fannie Mae, to:

FANNIE MAE 
3900 Wisconsin Avenue, NW 
Mail Stop 2H 4N 05 
Washington, DC 20016

Attention: Toni Harris

If to Consultant, to:

THE DUBERSTEIN GROUP 
2100 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Suite 500 
Washington, DC 20037

Attention: Ken Duberstein

3. Period of Performance  

Consultant agrees to provide the Services hereunder from January 1, 2001 through December
31, 2001.

4. Compensation and Invoicing  

Fannie Mae agrees to compensate Consultant for services rendered in a not-to-exceed contract
amount of $375,000, as well as for reasonable out-of-pocket and travel expenses billed at cost that
have been approved in advance by Fannie Mae. Invoices as to any amounts due under this Agreement
shall be provided to:

Drawer: Accounts Payable 
3900 Wisconsin Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC 20016-2899

Each invoice shall identify this Contract Number and shall provide a detailed description of the
Services rendered for which charges are due. Invoices shall be payable by Fannie Mae thirty (30)
days after receipt of Consultant s invoice and required supporting documentation.

5. Representations and Warranties  

Consultant hereby represents, warrants, covenants, and agrees that:

(a) the services to be provided hereunder will not be in violation of any applicable law, rule, or
regulation, and Consultant will have obtained all permits required to comply with such laws and
regulations;

(b) Consultant is duly organized and authorized to enter into this Agreement and perform all
obligations set forth in this Agreement;

(c) any Products or Services provided by Consultant under this Agreement will not violate or
in any way infringe upon the rights of other parties, including proprietary and non-disclosure
rights, trademark, copyright, or patent rights, and there are no existing, pending, or, to
Consultant s best knowledge, threatened claims relating to the infringement of any patent,
copyright or other proprietary right related to the Products (as defined below); and

(d) the Services provided hereunder will conform to the highest professional standards of the
industry for similar services.

6. Ownership of Products and/or Documents  

Both parties agree that any inventions, ideas, materials, reports, procedures or designs produced
or created pursuant to this Agreement, whether exclusively by Consultant or exclusively by Fannie
Mae or jointly by both, along with any modifications, improvements or derivative works relating
thereto ( Products ) will be the sole property of Fannie Mae, which will possess all ownership
rights in and to such Products and all intellectual property rights associated with such Products,
including, without limitation, patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret rights. The parties
acknowledge and agree that the Products are works made for hire under U.S. copyright laws.
Additionally, however, Consultant hereby assigns, transfers, and conveys to Fannie Mae all
ownership rights to such Products including, but not limited to, rights under copyright, patent,
and trademark law. Such Products are proprietary information, which will not be used or disclosed
by Consultant without the prior written consent of Fannie Mae.

Consultant agrees to execute applications, assignments, and other documents and to render all
other reasonable assistance requested by Fannie Mae, at Fannie Mae s expense, to enable it to
obtain domestic and foreign registrations for the Products.

This Section 6 will survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement for any reason.

7. Confidential Information  

(a) 
       
      Definitions.  

(i)
 Confidential Information . The term  Confidential Information  shall mean (i)
information disclosed by or on behalf of Fannie Mae relating to the ideas, plans, financial and
other information, procedures, techniques, trade secrets, formulae, proprietary programs,
technical know-how, or methods of operation of Fannie Mae or any affiliate thereof and all other
confidential information and materials that relate, refer or otherwise memorialize the plans,
policies, finances, corporate developments, training procedures, products, pricing, marketing
strategies, sales, services, procedures, intra-corporate transactions, suppliers, prospects and
customers of Fannie Mae or any affiliate thereof, (ii) other confidential, proprietary or trade
secret information disclosed by or on behalf of Fannie Mae that is identified as such at the time
of its disclosure, and (iii) all other confidential, proprietary or trade secret information
disclosed

by or on behalf of Fannie Mae, which a reasonable person employed in the mortgage finance
industry would recognize as such. By way of illustration, but not limitation, Confidential
Information includes all of the processes, formulae, compositions, improvements, devices,
know-how, inventions, discoveries, concepts, ideas, designs, methods, and information developed,
acquired, owned, produced, or practiced at any time by Fannie Mae or any affiliate thereof, and
any other similar information and material relating to the business of Fannie Mae or any affiliate
thereof. Confidential Information also shall include Products set forth in  Ownership of Products 
hereof. The terms of this Agreement (as well as all information regarding the negotiation of this
Agreement) shall be the Confidential Information of both parties.

(b)
 Non-Disclosure and Limitation of Use of Confidential Information . Consultant agrees (i)
not to use, copy or disclose, directly or indirectly, to any third party any Confidential
Information of Fannie Mae or any affiliate thereof without the prior written consent of a duly
authorized officer of Fannie Mae, (ii) to use Confidential Information solely for the purpose of
evaluating and providing Products and Services hereunder and/or proposals to Fannie Mae, and (iii)
that Consultant will take all necessary and reasonable action by instruction, agreement or
otherwise with its subcontractors to satisfy its obligations under this Agreement with respect to
confidentiality, non-disclosure and limitation of use of Confidential Information, which actions
shall accord the Confidential Information at least the same level of protection against
unauthorized use and disclosure that Consultant customarily accords to its own information of a
similar nature. The obligations of Consultant under this Agreement with respect to
confidentiality, non-disclosure and limitation of use of Confidential Information of Fannie Mae or
any affiliate thereof and of any similar information of any third-party (as set forth in paragraph
(d) below), shall survive expiration or termination of this Agreement for any reason.

(c)
 Ownership of Confidential Information . Consultant agrees (i) that all Fannie Mae
Confidential Information is and shall remain the property solely of Fannie Mae, and (ii) to deliver
to Fannie Mae, upon the earlier of Fannie Mae s request or termination of this Agreement, all
Confidential Information and any other Fannie Mae property then in its possession or control,
directly or indirectly, in whatever form it may be.

(d)
 Confidential Information of Third Parties . Consultant agrees (i) that confidential
and proprietary information of a third party is solely the property of such third party; (ii) to
observe and comply with the same non-disclosure and limitation of use restrictions that apply to
Confidential Information of Fannie Mae or any affiliate thereof with respect to confidential and
proprietary information of any third party; and (iii) to observe all other conditions of
non-disclosure and non-use of which specifically advised with respect to such third-parry confidential
and proprietary information. Confidential and proprietary information of a third
party shall include the types of information and materials as set forth herein in the definitions
of Confidential Information insofar as they relate to said third party.

(e)  Exceptions.  Except as specifically provided herein, Consultant shall not have any
obligation with respect to any Confidential Information or any portion thereof which Consultant can
establish: (i) is or becomes publicly available through no wrongful act of Consultant; (ii) was

lawfully obtained by Consultant from a third party without any obligation to maintain said
Confidential Information as proprietary or confidential; (iii) was previously known to Consultant
without any obligation to keep it confidential; or (iv) was independently developed by Consultant
without reference to any Confidential Information.

8. Conflict of Interest  

Consultant represents that there is no, and will be no, conflict of interest between its
performance under this agreement and its engagement as an independent contractor by others. In the
event Consultant believes that there may be a conflict of interest, Consultant will advise Fannie
Mae immediately. Fannie Mae and Consultant will work in good faith to resolve such conflict as
expeditiously as possible.

9. Independent Contractor  

Consultant and its subcontractors will at all times be and act as independent contractors
and, as such, no law, contract or other arrangement that has the effect of conferring benefits upon
officers or employees of Fannie Mae will be applicable in connection with the personal services
rendered under this Agreement.

10. No Assignments or Subcontracts  

The parties agree that no assignment of rights or obligations under this Agreement to any
third party is permitted without the prior written consent of both parties. The parties agree
further that none of the Consultant s duties or obligations under this Agreement may be
subcontracted without the prior written consent of Fannie Mae.

11. Taxation  

Fannie Mae hereby represents that, under Section 309(c)(2) of the Federal National Mortgage
Association Charter Act, 12 U.S.C. 1723a(c)(2), Fannie Mae is exempt from all state and local
taxes, except certain taxes on real property owned by Fannie Mae. Fannie Mae will not be
responsible for paying any such taxes. Consultant shall not pay any such taxes on Fannie Mae s
behalf and Fannie Mae will not be responsible for any such taxes so paid. Consultant will not bill
or charge Fannie Mae for any such taxes hereunder.

12. Termination  

This Agreement will terminate on the completion of the Services, which will be on or before
the date specified in Section 3.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Fannie Mae has the right to
terminate this Agreement (i) at any time, if Fannie Mae, determines, in its absolute and sole
discretion, that the Services are being performed in a manner that is unsatisfactory to Fannie
Mae, provided Fannie Mae has given Consultant notice and reasonable opportunity to correct such
unsatisfactory performance; (ii) at any time, upon thirty (30) days  prior written notice to
Consultant; (iii) immediately upon written notice to Consultant, in the event of any breach by
Consultant of Section 7 (Confidential and Proprietary Information).

In the event of termination of this Agreement prior to completion of the Services, Fannie Mae will
pay Consultant only for those authorized services rendered prior to termination. Consultant shall
deliver to Fannie Mae, within ten (10) days of termination, all: (1) work in progress; (ii) Fannie
Mae property; and (iii) materials containing or embodying Proprietary Information or Products.
Consultant will make or retain no partial or entire copies of any of the foregoing and will
destroy all computer files containing such data or information. The parties will continue to be
bound by those sections of this Agreement which survive termination thereof.

13. Compliance with Code of Business Conduct  

In the event that Consultant and/or its employees work more than 90 days at a Fannie Mae
location during a calendar year or earn more than $100,000 in aggregate fees from Fannie Mae,
Consultant and its employees shall comply with Fannie Mae s Code of Business Conduct. A copy of
the Code shall be provided to Consultant when and if either of these conditions is met. At that
time, Consultant shall execute the compliance certification form accompanying said Code.

14. Limitation of Liability  

Except with respect to Losses (as defined in Section 15 below), neither party shall be
liable for any incidental, indirect, punitive, exemplary, or other special or consequential damages
arising under or in connection with this Agreement, the Services or the Products, whether based
upon contract, tort, breach of warranty or any other legal or equitable grounds, even if such party
has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

15. Indemnification  

Consultant agrees to indemnify, hold harmless, and defend Fannie Mae, its officers,
directors, employees, and agents (each of whom is referred to as an  Indemnified Party ) against
all liability, costs, actions, suits, judgments, damages, and expenses (including reasonable
attorneys  fees) (collectively,  Losses ) arising from or in connection with:

(a) 
       
     any breach by Consultant of, or any act or omission of Consultant relating to, this
Agreement, the Services or the Products; 

(b) 
       
     the breach, unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized use by Consultant (including any of
its employees, agents and subcontractors) of any Confidential or Proprietary information of
Fannie Mae or any third party; and 

(c) 
       
     any injuries to persons (including death) or property caused by the acts or omissions of
Consultant or its subcontractors. 

Consultant s obligation to indemnify any Indemnified Party will survive the expiration or
termination of this Agreement for any reason. Fannie Mae may, at its option, conduct the defense
in any third party action arising as described above and Consultant agrees fully to cooperate with
such defense.

16. No Implied Waiver  

No failure to contest a breach of a term, provision, or clause of this Agreement will be deemed to
waive or excuse such breach unless such waiver or consent is in writing and executed by a duly
authorized representative of each party. Any consent by any party to, or waiver of, a breach by
the other, whether express or implied, will not constitute a consent to, waiver of, or excuse for
any other different or subsequent breach.

17. Survival  

The terms of Section 6 (Ownership of Products and/or Documents), Section 7 (Confidential
Information), and Section 14 (Indemnification), as well as any other provision which contemplates
performance or observance subsequent to termination or expiration of this Agreement, shall survive
termination or expiration of this Agreement for any reason and continue in full force and effect.

18. Governing Law and Severability  

This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the District of
Columbia. If any part, term, or provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal or unenforceable,
the validity of the remaining portions or provisions will not be affected, and the parties shall
replace the invalid or unenforceable provision with one that most nearly reflects their original
intentions and is valid and enforceable under applicable law.

19. Jurisdiction and Venue  

The parties hereto consent to the jurisdiction and venue, of the District of Columbia courts or
federal courts sitting in the District of Columbia. The parties agree further that all disputes or
controversies which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement, its construction,

interpretation, effect, performance, non-performance or the consequences thereof, shall be
determined exclusively by said courts of the District of Columbia.

20. Entire Agreement  

The parties agree that this Agreement, together with any modifications relating hereto, sets forth
the entire understanding between Fannie Mae and Consultant and supersedes all agreements between
them with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement. Any modification to this Agreement
must be in writing and duly signed by both parties.

If you find the foregoing satisfactory, please sign below to note your acceptance and return both
(2) originals to Toni Harris, Contract Manager, M/S 2H 4N 05, 4000 Wisconsin Avenue, NW,
Washington, DC 20016. Once signed by Fannie Mae, a fully executed Agreement will be forwarded to
you for your files.

Should you have any questions or require additional information, please contact Toni Harris, at
(202) 752-8633, fax to (202) 752-6612 or email to toni_1_harris@fanniernae.com. Questions relating
to the Services provided hereunder should be addressed to Domenic Grillo at (202) 752- 4702.

Very truly yours,

FANNIE MAE 

By: /s/ Barbara B. Lang

Name:

Barbara B. Lang

Title:

Vice President, Corporate Services 

Date:

04/19/01  

AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED: 

THE DUBERSTEIN GROUP 

By: /s/ Michael S. Berman

Name:

Michael S. Berman 

Title:

President

Date:

4/17/01 

MODIFICATION TO 
FANNIE MAE 
LETTER AGREEMENT 

Letter Agreement ( Agreement ) Number 286; Modification Number 1

The purpose of this Modification is to extend the term of the Agreement.

I. Paragraph 3, Period of Performance, is modified as follows: 

Consultant agrees to provide the Services hereunder from January 1, 2002 through December 31,
2002.

II. Paragraph 4, Compensation, is modified as follows: 

Fannie Mae agrees to compensate Consultant for services rendered in 2002 in a
not-to-exceed contract amount of $375,000, as well as for reasonable out-of-pocket and travel
expenses billed at costs that have been approved in advance by Fannie Mae.

III. All remaining terms and conditions of the Contract remain unchanged. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties hereto have executed this Modification as of the
day and year set forth below. This Modification is effective as of the Effective Date upon
execution by Fannie Mae.

Accepted by:

FANNIE MAE  
       
      THE DUBERSTEIN GROUP  

By: /s/ Christine N. Cahn

By: /s/ Kenneth M. Duberstein

Name:

Christine N. Cahn

Name:

Kenneth M. Duberstein 

Title:

VP, Budget and Expense Management

Title:

Chairman   CEO 

Date:

2-3-02 

Date:

1/25/02  

MODIFICATION No. 02 
TO 
FANNIE MAE 
LETTER AGREEMENT 

Letter Agreement ( Agreement ) Number 0-286 dated March 28, 2001, by and between:

The purpose of this Modification is to add additional funding for 2003 and extend the period
of performance to this contract. The following contract terms are changed as follows:

I. Section 3. Period of Performance is modified to read as follows: 

Consultant agrees to provide Services hereunder from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2003 and
thereafter, the Agreement shall continue and remain in force unless terminated sooner as provided
herein.

II. Section 4. Compensation is modified to read as follows: 

Fannie Mae agrees to compensate Consultant for Services rendered in 2003 in a not-to-exceed
contract amount of $375,000, as well as for reasonable, out-of-pocket and travel expenses billed at
costs that  have been approved in advance by Fannie Mae .

III. Section 12. Termination is modified as follows: 

Delete the first paragraph,  This Agreement will terminate on the completion of Services,
which will be on or before the date specified in Section 3. 

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain unchanged. 

The parties acknowledge and agree that copies of executed documents received via facsimile shall be
deemed to be originals for all purposes. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties hereto have executed this Modification as of the day and
year set forth below. This Modification is effective as of the Effective Date upon execution by
Fannie Mae.

Accepted by:

FANNIE MAE  
       
      THE DUBERSTEIN GROUP  

By: /s/ Christine N. Cahn

By: /s/ Michael S. Berman

Name:

Christine N. Cahn

Name:

Michael S. Berman 

Title:

Vice President, Budget and

Title:

President 

Expense Management 

Date:

4-1-03

Date:

2/04/03 

AMENDMENT No. 003 
TO 
FANNIE MAE 
LETTER AGREEMENT # 0-0286 

Letter Agreement ( Agreement ) Number 0-0286, dated March 28, 2001 by and between:

The following contract terms and conditions are changed as follows:

I.  
       
      Section 1, Services and Deliverables is modified to include the following:  

Contractor shall provide Services as outlined on the Purchase Order # 3-42954, as well as
any subsequent Purchase Orders. Except as otherwise noted in the Agreement, if there are
any contradictions or inconsistencies between the Agreement and the attached Purchase
Order, the provisions of the Agreement shall control. 

II.  
       
      Section 2, Point of Contact and Notices, Paragraph 1 is revised as follows:  

Contractor s point of contact at Fannie Mae will be identified on the Purchase Order
and any subsequent Purchase Orders. 

III.  
       
      Section 3, Period of Performance is deleted in its entirety and revised as
follows:  

The Period of Performance will be identified on the Purchase Order and any subsequent
Purchase Orders. 

IV.  
       
      Section 4, Compensation and Invoicing is deleted in its entirety and revised as follows:  

Fannie Mae agrees to compensate Contractor for services rendered in an amount as
outlined on the Purchase Order, as well as reasonable out-of-pocket and travel expenses
billed at cost that have been approved in advance by Fannie Mae. Invoices should be sent to
the contact person identified on the Purchase Order. Each invoice shall identify the
Purchase Order Number and shall provide a detailed description of the Services rendered. 

V.  
       
      Section 12, Termination, Insert as Paragraph 1 the following:  

This Agreement will terminate on the completion of Services, which will be on or
before the date specified in Section 3.  

Should you have any questions or require additional information, please contact Maria Haynes,
Program Manager at 202-752-6632, or fax to: 202-752-0037.

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain unchanged. 

The parties acknowledge and agree that copies of the executed documents received via facsimile
shall be deemed to be originals for all purposes. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties hereto have executed this Amendment as of the day and
year setforth below. This Amendment is effective as of the date executed by Fannie Mae.

Accepted by:

FANNIE MAE  
       
      THE DUBERSTEIN GROUP  

By: /s/ Anne Stilwell

By: /s/ Michael S. Berman

Name:

Anne Stilwell

Name:

Michael S. Berman 

Title:

Director, Contract  

Title:

President 

Procurement Services 

Date:

4/27/05

Date:

3/9/05 

</EX-10.25>

<EX-12.1>
 7
 w26699exv12w1.htm
 EX-12.1

exv12w1 

Exhibit 12.1 

FANNIE MAE 
COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
(Dollars in millions) 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-12.2>
 8
 w26699exv12w2.htm
 EX-12.2

exv12w2 

Exhibit 12.2 

FANNIE MAE 
COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND 
PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS 
(Dollars in millions) 

(1)   
       
      Includes amortized capitalized interest related to low income housing tax credit partnerships of $5 million, $5 million and
$4 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  

(2)   
       
        Represents pre-tax earnings required to pay dividends on outstanding
        preferred stock using our effective income tax rate for the relevant periods.  

</EX-12.2>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 w26699exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1  

CERTIFICATIONS  

I, Daniel H. Mudd, certify that:

1. 
 
         I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2004 of Fannie Mae
    (formally, the Federal National Mortgage Association);

2. 
 
         Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
    statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
    necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. 
 
         Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
    financial information included in this report, fairly present in
    all material respects the financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
    periods presented in this report;

4. 
 
         The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) 

Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) 

Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
    caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) 

Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
    controls and procedures and presented in this report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
    report based on such evaluation; and

(d) 

Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
    internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
    the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
    registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
    report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
    financial reporting; and

5.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) 

All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
    design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
    which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) 

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Daniel H. Mudd

Name:     Daniel H. Mudd

Title: 

President and Chief Executive Officer

Date: December 6, 2006

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 w26699exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2  

CERTIFICATIONS  

I, Robert T. Blakely, certify that:

1. 
 
         I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2004 of Fannie Mae
    (formally, the Federal National Mortgage Association);

2. 
 
         Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
    statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
    necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. 
 
         Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
    financial information included in this report, fairly present in
    all material respects the financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
    periods presented in this report;

4. 
 
         The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) 

Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) 

Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
    caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) 

Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
    controls and procedures and presented in this report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
    report based on such evaluation; and

(d) 

Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
    internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
    the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
    registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
    report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
    financial reporting; and

5.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) 

All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
    design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
    which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) 

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Robert
    T. Blakely 

Name:      Robert T. Blakely

Title: 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Date: December 6, 2006

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 w26699exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1  

CERTIFICATION  

In connection with the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Fannie Mae (formally, the Federal National Mortgage
    Association) for the year ended December 31, 2004, as filed
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof
    (the  Report ), I, Daniel H. Mudd, President and
    Chief Executive Officer of Fannie Mae, certify, pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to my knowledge:

1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934; and

2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents,
    in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
    operations of Fannie Mae.

/s/  Daniel
    H. Mudd

Name: Daniel H. Mudd

Title:   President and Chief Executive Officer

Date: December 6, 2006

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant
    to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as
    part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 w26699exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2  

CERTIFICATION  

In connection with the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Fannie Mae (formally, the Federal National Mortgage
    Association) for the year ended December 31, 2004, as filed
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof
    (the  Report ), I, Robert T. Blakely, Executive
    Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Fannie Mae,
    certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to
    my knowledge:

1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934; and

2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents,
    in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
    operations of Fannie Mae.

/s/   Robert
    T. Blakely 

Name:     Robert T. Blakely

Title: 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Date: December 6, 2006

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant
    to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as
    part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.3>
 13
 w26699exv99w3.htm
 EX-99.3

exv99w3 

Exhibit 99.3

CONFIDENTIAL 

August 23, 2005

Re: Separation Agreement for Ann Kappler

Dear Ann:

As we have discussed, you will be leaving Fannie Mae on January 2, 2006.

In order to address issues relating to your work status and the termination of your employment
with Fannie Mae, and to resolve and release fully and completely any claims between you and Fannie
Mae arising from your employment or the termination of that employment, you and Fannie Mae have
agreed to the terms of this Separation Agreement (the  Agreement ).

1.  Effective Date and Work Status . Your employment with Fannie Mae will terminate on
January 2, 2006 ( Termination Date ), unless the term of employment is ended earlier in accordance
with Paragraph 5. Until the termination you will remain in the position of Executive Vice
President and General Counsel, except that if Fannie Mae appoints another General Counsel prior to
January 2, 2006 you will remain employed by Fannie Mae with your current pay and benefits,
including those described in this Agreement, in a senior advisory capacity. You agree that,
through the Termination Date, you will not engage in any activity that is in any way detrimental to
Fannie Mae. Detrimental activities include, but are not limited to, acts of disloyalty or
dishonesty and breaches of any fiduciary obligation to Fannie Mae. You agree to abide by all
Fannie Mae policies in effect at all times up to and including the Termination Date. These
policies include, but are not limited to, those set forth in the Policies and Procedures site,
the Code of Business Conduct, the Agreement on Ideas, Inventions and Confidential Information and
any applicable departmental guidelines. You agree that, effective as of the Termination Date,
you resign as an officer and an employee of Fannie Mae, such resignation being evidenced by your
execution of this Agreement.

2.  Fannie Mae Consideration . In exchange for your promises, covenants and undertakings
set forth in this Agreement, Fannie Mae will:

a. 
       
     Pay you, within fifteen (15) days of Fannie Mae s receipt of your
executed Agreement, but no earlier than the first business day following your
Termination Date, a lump sum amount equivalent to 52 weeks of your current base pay
($472,000) plus four weeks pay per year of service with Fannie Mae (for a maximum of
26 weeks) for a total of 78 weeks of your current base pay, ($708,000); 

b. 
       
     Pay you a lump sum AIP award for 2005 at target, subject to adjustment
for corporate performance to the same extent as an adjustment for corporate
performance is made for other Executive Vice Presidents. You will not be entitled to
any AIP award for 2006 or later years. In addition, with respect to the second
installment of PSP 17, both installments of PSP 18 and 19, and a pro-rata (2/3)
portion of PSP 20, you will be entitled to payment to the extent the Compensation
Committee or the Board of Directors determines that these PSP awards are payable to
other Executive Vice Presidents. You will not be 

Form of
Separation Agreement (AK)1

Ann M. Kappler 
Page 2 of 10 
August 23, 2005

entitled to any PSP payments other than as described in the preceding
sentence. The pro rata AIP award and PSP payouts will be paid to you, if at all, when
other Executive Vice Presidents receive their AIP and PSP awards, provided such
payments to you are not subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code
( Section 409A ) or, if subject to Section 409A, would be consistent with the
requirements of Section 409A, as determined by Fannie Mae. If the payment of a pro
rata AIP award and/or PSP payout to you in accordance with the preceding sentence
would be subject to Section 409A and, if paid in accordance with the preceding
sentence, would not be consistent with the requirements of Section 409A, as
determined by Fannie Mae, then such payment due to you will be made at the first time
thereafter as is administratively practicable consistent with Section 409A. 

c. 
       
     Continue your existing medical and/or dental coverage for a maximum
period of five years (60 months), if you elect such continuation of coverage. If
you elect such continuation of coverage, for the first eighteen (18) months (or
until discontinuation of the coverage, if earlier) you will pay only the portion of
the premium that you would have paid as an active employee. For the remainder of
the coverage continuation period, terminating at the end of five years (60 months)
or upon discontinuation of the coverage if earlier, you will be required to pay
the full premium that would be required of you for coverage
continuation in accordance with the Consolidated Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act ( COBRA ). The coverage to which you would be entitled under
COBRA is included in the continuation of coverage described in this paragraph   that
is, you will not be entitled to any additional COBRA coverage at the end of the
coverage continuation period described in this paragraph; 

d. 
       
     Subject to paragraph (h) below, provide you with up to
$18,000 in outplacement services from a firm chosen by Fannie Mae. These
outplacement services must be used within twelve (12) months of the Termination
Date. You may not receive cash in lieu of such outplacement services; 

e. 
       
     Accelerate fully, as of the Termination Date, the vesting of any stock
options that you may nave. The exercise period for each of your vested options
(whether vested by acceleration or pursuant to the regular vesting schedule) shall
be extended to the option s expiration date. You understand that, if the option
exercise period ends on a holiday or weekend, your last opportunity to exercise the
option will be the last business day of the exercise period. In addition, you
understand that after the expiration date these options will expire; 

f. 
       
     Subject to paragraph (h) below, accelerate fully, as of the Termination
Date, the vesting of any restricted stock that you may have; 

g. 
       
     Subject to paragraph (h) below and in accordance with the provisions of
Fannie Mae s financial counseling program, payment of the fee for financial
counseling services to you for 2006; and 

h. 
       
     If you sign a general release on your Termination Date substantially
in the form of the attached General Release upon Termination of Employment, in
consideration for your continued employment between the date of this Agreement and
your Termination Date and the other terms of this Agreement, pay or provide the
benefits described in Paragraphs 2(d), 2(f) and 2(g) above. 

Form of
Separation Agreement (AK)1

Ann M. Kappler 
Page 3 of 10 
August 23, 2005

3.  Acknowledgement of Consideration . You acknowledge that, absent your entry
into this Agreement, you would not be entitled to the consideration set forth in Paragraph 2 of
this Agreement. You further acknowledge that Fannie Mae s provision of this consideration is
made in exchange for the full, final and complete release of any and all claims that you may have
against Fannie Mae.

4.  Vacation Pay/Benefit Rights . Within fifteen (15) days of the Termination Date, Fannie
Mae will pay you a lump sum, less legally required deductions, for any accrued but unused vacation
leave you may have as of the Termination Date, consistent with Fannie Mae policy. Fannie Mae also
agrees to be bound by all benefit rights to which you are entitled as a result of your employment
with Fannie Mae. These benefits include retirement, pension plan, 401K plan, ESOP, as well as any
life insurance program. For the avoidance of doubt, (i) you have no vested right to any benefit
and will receive no benefit under Fannie Mae s Executive Pension Plan, and (ii) you will retain
ownership of any life insurance policies owned by you but will be responsible for the payment of
any premiums for periods after 2006.

5.  Early Termination . You agree that your employment by Fannie May shall terminate
earlier than the term provided in the Agreement in the event of (i) your death, (ii) your becoming
eligible for and receiving disability benefits, or (iii) termination by Fannie Mae of your
employment for misconduct or any breach by you of any provision of this Agreement. If your
employment is so terminated, other than as provided in clause (iii) of this Paragraph 5,
you (or your executors or administrators) (a) shall be paid, within 15 days of such termination, a
lump sum payment equal to your base pay for the period from the date of actual termination through
January 2, 2006  plus  the benefit described in Paragraph 2(a), and you will also be entitled to the
other benefits of Paragraph 2 determined as follows: (I) the AIP and PSP amounts described in
Paragraph 2(b) shall be paid, if at all, in accordance with Paragraph 2(b); (II) the coverage
continuation described in Paragraph 2(c) shall be available commencing at the actual date of
termination; (III) the twelve-month period described in Paragraph 2(d) will be measured from the
actual date of termination; (IV) the option and restricted stock acceleration described in
Paragraphs 2(e) and 2(f) shall occur as of the actual date of termination, subject in the case of
the restricted stock vesting to clause (VI) below; (V) the benefit described at Paragraph 2(g) will
be provided in accordance with its terms, subject to clause (VI) below; and (VI) the provisions of
Paragraph 2(h) shall be applied by substituting  actual date of termination  for  Termination
Date.  If during the term of employment you become entitled to and thereafter receives disability
benefits under the Short-Term Disability Program or the Long-Term Disability Insurance Plan (or any
successor plan) paid for by Fannie Mae, the amount otherwise payable to you shall be reduced (but
not below zero) by the amount of any such disability benefits received by you, but only to the
extent such benefits are attributable to payments made by Fannie Mae. Subject to the foregoing
provisions of this Paragraph 5, if your employment terminates pursuant to the provisions of this
Paragraph, your  Termination Date  will be the date of such termination.

6.  Voluntary Election . You acknowledge that your decision to enter into this Agreement is
wholly voluntary and without any pressure or influence by Fannie Mae. You
further acknowledge that you have carefully read and fully understand all of the provisions of this
Agreement.

7.  Release of all Claims . You covenant not to sue, and fully and forever release and
discharge Fannie Mae and its affiliates, divisions, successors and assigns, along with its past and
present trustees, officers, directors, insurers, shareholders, agents and employees, as well as any
past, present or successor Fannie Mae pension or benefit plan and its trustees, administrators,
fiduciaries, insurers and agents (collectively, the  Releasees ), in their

Form of
Separation Agreement (AK)1

Ann M. Kappler 

Page 4 of 10  

August 23, 2005

personal and representative capacities, from any and all claims, complaints, charges, debts,
liens, liabilities, demands, obligations, acts, agreements, causes of action, suits, costs,
expenses (including attorneys  fees), damages (whether pecuniary, actual, compensatory, punitive or
exemplary) and liabilities of any nature or kind whatsoever in law or equity or otherwise, whether
now known or unknown, existing or arising in the future, arising out of or in any way connected
with your employment with Fannie Mae or the termination of that employment, even if you would not
have entered into this Agreement had you known that such claim(s) existed. Notwithstanding the
above release, you retain any rights or claims arising after you sign this Agreement, as well as
the right to take action to enforce the terms of this Agreement. You understand and agree that this
release means you are giving up the right to sue Fannie Mae on any claim or cause of action
released.

8.
Release includes all Claims Under Federal, State, Local and Common Law . Your release as set forth
in Paragraph 7 of this Agreement includes, but is not limited to: (i) any claims under any federal
statute, ordinance, regulation or executive order, as amended, including, but not limited to, Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Civil Rights Act of 1866, 42
U.S.C. Section 1981, the Equal Pay Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Older Worker
Benefit Protection Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Rehabilitation Act of
1973, the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act
and Executive Order 11246; (ii) any claims under any state or local statute, ordinance or
regulation, as amended, including, but not limited to, the District of Columbia Human Rights Act,
the District of Columbia Family and Medical Leave Act, the Virginia Human Rights Law, the Maryland
Fair Employment Practices Act, and any workers  compensation claims; and (iii) any claims under
common law, including, but not limited to, claims for breach of contract, wrongful discharge and
tort. You represent and reaffirm that you knowingly and voluntarily waive any rights and claims
under the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, and under the other
specific statutes stated in this section. You also represent that you have not suffered any
work-related injury for which you have not already filed a claim, and that you have fully complied
with your reporting obligations under Fannie Mae s Code of Business Conduct, Anti-Fraud Policy and
Ethical Responsibility Policy.

9.  No Complaints or Charges . You represent that you have not filed any complaints or
charges against Fannie Mae or any of the other Releasees with any federal, state, local court,
agency or arbitration forum. You waive any and all rights to recover in any lawsuit, judicial
action or administrative or other proceeding relating to Fannie Mae brought on your behalf by the
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S. Department of Labor, the Office of Federal
Contract Compliance Programs, the District of Columbia Commission on Human Rights, the District
of Columbia Department of Human Rights and Minority Business Development or any
other federal, state or local administrative or fair employment rights enforcement agency. You
agree that if any administrative agency or court maintains or assumes jurisdiction of any charge or
complaint against any of the Releasees on your behalf, you will promptly request that agency or
court to withdraw from the matter. By entering into this Agreement, you further withdraw any
pending complaints and charges initiated by or relating to you in Fannie Mae s Office of Corporate
Justice, federal, state, local court, agency or arbitration forum.

10.  Cooperation . You agree that you will fully cooperate with any investigation
conducted by Fannie Mae, by its auditor, by OFHEO (as defined in Paragraph 20 of this Agreement),
or by any federal, state or local government authority relating to Fannie Mae. Nothing contained
in this Agreement precludes you from communicating or cooperating with any federal, state or local
governmental authority or from taking any action required by law. Fannie Mae agrees

Form of
Separation Agreement (AK)1

Ann M. Kappler 
Page 5 of 10 
August 23, 2005

that it will not construe any assertion of attorney client or work product privilege
applicable to you individually as failure to cooperate. You understand that Fannie Mae s
privileges may only be asserted or waived by Fannie Mae.

11.  Non-Competition . Consistent with Section 3.6 of your Agreement on
Ideas, Inventions and Confidential Information, which you signed on March 23, 2001, you agree that,
for a period of twelve (12) months immediately following the Termination Date (the
 Restricted Period ), you will not solicit or accept employment or act in any way, directly or
indirectly, to solicit or obtain employment or work for Freddie Mac, any one of the Federal Home
Loan Banks or the Office of Finance, whether such employment is to be as a Freddie Mac, Federal
Home Loan Bank or Office of Finance employee, consultant, or advisor. You acknowledge that these
limitations are essential,  inter alia,  to preserve the confidentiality of attorney-client
privileged and other proprietary information that you have acquired in the course of your
employment as a lawyer for Fannie Mae and that they do not improperly restrict your right or
ability to engage in the practice of law in contravention of any applicable rule.

12.  Forfeiture of Consideration and Attorney  Fees . You agree that if you violate any
material provision of this Agreement, you will immediately be liable to Fannie Mae for repayment of
the full amount of consideration provided to you under Paragraph 2 of this Agreement and that
Fannie Mae may discontinue part or all of any remaining payments of consideration under Paragraph
2. You also agree that you will be responsible for all costs and attorneys  fees incurred by
Fannie Mae by reason of your breach of any part of this Agreement or from Fannie Mae s efforts to
enforce this Agreement. You agree to submit to the jurisdiction of any federal or state court in
any action by Fannie Mae to enforce its rights under this Agreement.

13.  Disclaimer of Liability . Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as an
admission by Fannie Mae or by any of the other Releasees. Fannie Mae specifically disclaims
liability to and wrongful treatment of you.

14.  Consideration Period and Consultation with an Attorney . You acknowledge that you have
been provided a period of twenty-one (21) days in which to consider whether or not to execute this
Agreement. You also acknowledge that you have been advised in writing to consult with an attorney
before executing this Agreement and that you have had a fair and full opportunity to do so as well
as to consult with a tax advisor concerning, inter alia, the possible application of Section 409A
to this Agreement. Further, you agree that Fannie Mae is not responsible for any expenses that
you may have incurred or may incur in consulting with an attorney.

15.  Revocation . You have seven (7) calendar days following your execution of this
Agreement (the  Revocation Period ) in which to revoke your execution of the Agreement. This
Agreement will not be effective or enforceable until the expiration of the Revocation Period.
Revocation can be made only by delivery of a written notice of revocation to Fannie Mae s Chief
Executive Officer at Fannie Mae s main business address before or by 5:00 p.m. on the seventh
calendar day following your execution of the Agreement. If you revoke your execution of this
Agreement, the Agreement will be null and void. If you do not revoke your execution of this
Agreement as provided in this paragraph, this Agreement will be fully effective, enforceable and
irrevocable in accordance with its terms upon the expiration of the Revocation Period.

16.  Rehire . You agree that you will not apply for any position with Fannie Mae for
seventy -eight (78) weeks following your Termination Date. Notwithstanding the above, if after
the

Form of
Separation Agreement (AK)1

Ann M. Kappler 
Page 6 of 10 
August 23, 2005

execution of this Agreement Fannie Mae rehires you, you agree that you will return to Fannie Mae
all of the lump sum amounts paid to you except for an amount equal to your base pay for the number
of weeks elapsed between the Termination Date and your rehire. You and Fannie Mae understand and
agree that in the event that you are rehired, neither the return of a portion of the severance
payment nor the fact of your rehire will impair or in any way affect the validity or enforceability
of this Agreement.

17.  Return
and Protection of Fannie Mae Property and Confidential
Information . You
agree that, on or before the Termination Date, you will transfer to the Chief Executive Officer of
Fannie Mae or his designee, all documents, files and other work product that you have not
previously relinquished, that are under your control and that you have generated or acquired in
connection with or during your Fannie Mae employment. You acknowledge that you remain bound by the
terms and conditions of the Code of Business Conduct, Agreement on Ideas, Inventions and
Confidential Information, Confidential Information Policy and Intellectual Property Policy
pertaining to all current and former Fannie Mae employees. You also agree not to disclose or use,
without the prior written consent of Fannie Mae s Chief Executive Officer, any company trade
secrets or other Confidential Information prepared or obtained by you or at your direction during
the course of your employment with Fannie Mae. Trade secrets shall include all information and
material including but not limited to computer software and programs (including source codes),
database technologies, systems, processes, formulae, inventions, discoveries and information
developed, acquired, owned, produced or practiced at any time by Fannie Mae or its affiliates that
have been treated, regarded or designated by Fannie Mae to be trade secrets. Confidential
Information shall include all information and material relating to Fannie Mae s business, including
but not limited to all technical, financial, business and personnel related information and
information as to plans, procedures and intra-corporate transactions, that is nonpublic and
competitively sensitive, or the disclosure of which might reasonably be construed to be adverse to
Fannie Mae s interests.

18.  Confidentiality . You and your heirs, assigns and attorneys agree to keep
confidential and not to disclose any of the terms, conditions, amounts or any other details of
this Agreement or any Confidential Information relating to your employment at Fannie Mae to any
person or entity. However, you may make disclosure relating to this Agreement to the following
individuals, provided that they also agree to keep the terms and conditions of this Agreement
confidential: (i) to your attorney or other representative consulted by you to understand the
interpretation, application or legal effect of this Agreement; (ii) to your accountants or
financial advisors for the purpose of obtaining financial and/or tax advice pertaining to this
Agreement; (iii) to your family or (iv) to the extent that such disclosure is required by law.
You shall instruct those to whom you provide information about this Agreement pursuant to
subparts (i)-(iv) of this paragraph that they are obligated to keep it confidential, except as
required by law. In the event that you receive a request for disclosure of Confidential
Information other than as set forth in subparts (i)-(iv), you shall promptly notify Fannie Mae and
shall cooperate fully with Fannie Mae in responding or objecting to such request. As set forth in
Paragraph 12 of this Agreement, if you breach the provisions of this paragraph, you must return to
Fannie Mae all payments made under this Agreement. As set forth in Paragraph 10 of this
Agreement, this undertaking does not preclude you from fully cooperating with any action or
investigation brought by a governmental authority.

19.  Binding
Effect . This Agreement will be binding on you and Fannie Mae and on
the parties  respective heirs, representatives, executors, trustees, directors, employees,
successors and assigns, and will run to the benefit of you, Fannie Mae and each of the other
Releasees and the parties  respective heirs, administrators, representatives,
executors, trustees, directors, employees, successors and assigns.

Form of
Separation Agreement (AK)1

Ann M. Kappler 
Page 7 of 10 
August 23, 2005

20.  Regulatory Approval . You acknowledge and agree that pursuant to Section
309(d) of the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act, as amended by the Federal Housing
Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (as so amended, the  Act ), 12 U.S.C.
1723a(d), no provision of this Agreement relating to the terms of the Employee s termination of
employment shall be effective unless and until such provision has been reviewed and approved by the
Director (the  Director ) of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight ( OFHEO ). You
therefore agree as follows:

(a) 
       
     Fannie Mae shall promptly submit this Agreement to the Director for his review and approval
of those terms hereof relating to termination of employment and shall seek diligently to obtain
such approval; and 

(b) 
       
     No such provisions shall become effective unless and until the Director s approval thereof
shall have been obtained. 

21.  Miscellaneous . The following provisions also apply:

(a) 
       
     You represent that you have not assigned or transferred, or purported to assign or transfer, to
any person or entity and claim related to Fannie Mae, or any portion thereof or interest therein. 

(b) 
       
     The failure of either party hereto to insist upon strict compliance by the other party with
any term, covenant or condition hereof shall not be deemed a waiver of such terms or conditions,
nor shall any waiver or relinquishment or failure to insist upon strict compliance of any right or
power hereunder at any one time or more be deemed a waiver or relinquishment of such right or power
at any other time or times. 

(c) 
       
     Fannie Mae shall deduct from all amounts payable under this Agreement, including
amounts payable under benefits and plans described in Paragraph 2, all federal, state, local and
other taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to such payments. 

(d) 
       
     The laws of the District of Columbia shall govern this Agreement. In the event that any
provision of this Agreement shall be invalid and legally unenforceable, the same shall not affect
in any respect the validity and enforceability of the remainder of this Agreement. In the event
that the provisions of any section of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable
in any respect, such section shall nevertheless be construed and applied so as to be valid and
enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law or in equity. 

(e) 
       
     Except as provided otherwise herein, this Agreement supersedes any prior written or oral
employment agreement between you and Fannie Mae, and any such agreement is terminated effective
upon execution of this Agreement. You and Fannie Mae understand and agree that the terms and
conditions of this Agreement constitute the full and complete understandings, agreements and
promises of the parties, and that there are no oral or written understandings, agreements, promises
or inducements made or offered with respect to the subject matter covered herein other than those
set forth in writing in this Agreement, and this Agreement merges and supersedes any and all prior
agreements, understandings and representations on the subject matter covered herein, with the sole
exception of Fannie Mae benefit plans and stock option and restricted stock award documents
referenced herein. No modification of this Agreement 

Form of
Separation Agreement (AK)1

Ann M. Kappler 
Page 8 of 10 
August 23, 2005

shall be valid unless in writing and signed by each of the parties hereto. 

(f) 
       
     You and Fannie Mae agree that the terms, conditions and details of this Agreement are
unique and are addressed to the specific circumstances of your relationship and shall in no event
provide a precedent, policy or practice for treatment of other employees of Fannie Mae in the
future. 

(g) 
       
     Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary that may be contained in this Agreement,
nothing in this Agreement or in the attached General Release Upon Termination of Employment is
intended to terminate or limit the protections afforded to you, your heirs, your personal
representatives or your estate that are provided in the Indemnification Agreement between Fannie
Mae and you and any applicable Director and Officer Insurance. 

22.  Execution . By signing this Agreement, you agree that you have read and fully understand
the meaning and intent of the terms of this Agreement and have had an opportunity to review it with
your immediate family and attorney. You agree to be legally bound by this Agreement and certify
that you sign this Agreement voluntarily and knowingly, without coercion and with full knowledge of
the nature and consequences of signing it.

PLEASE READ CAREFULLY. THIS SEPARATION AGREEMENT CONTAINS A GENERAL RELEASE OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN
CLAIMS. 

/s/ Ann M. Kappler

8/23/05

Ann M. Kappler 

Date  

/s/ Rebecca Senhauser

8/23/05 

Rebecca Senhauser 

Date  

FANNIE MAE 

Senior Vice President   Human Resources  

Form of
Separation Agreement (AK)1

Ann M. Kappler 
Page 9 of 10 
August 23, 2005

General Release Upon Termination of Employment 

Whereas, Section 2(h) of the Separation Agreement dated August            , 2005 (the  Agreement )
between the undersigned and Fannie Mae (the  Company ) provides that the undersigned shall sign
this General Release Upon Termination of Employment at the time of termination of her employment
for valuable consideration as recited in said Section 2(h).

NOW THEREFORE, the undersigned agrees as follows:

Release of all Claims . The undersigned covenants not to sue, and fully and forever releases
and discharges Fannie Mae and its affiliates, divisions, successors and assigns, along with its
past and present trustees, officers, directors, insurers, shareholders, agents and employees, as
well as any past, present or successor Fannie Mae pension or benefit plan and its trustees,
administrators, fiduciaries, insurers and agents (collectively, the  Releasees ), in their personal
and representative capacities, from any and all claims, complaints, charges, debts, liens,
liabilities, demands, obligations, acts, agreements, causes of action, suits, costs, expenses
(including attorneys  fees), damages (whether pecuniary, actual, compensatory, punitive or
exemplary) and liabilities of any nature or kind whatsoever in law or equity or otherwise, whether
now known or unknown, existing or arising in the future, arising out of or in any way connected
with the undersigned s employment with Fannie Mae or the termination of that employment, even if
the undersigned would not have given this Release had she known that such claim(s) existed.
Notwithstanding the above release, the undersigned retains any rights or claims arising after she
signs this Release, as well as the right to take action to enforce the terms of the Agreement. The
undersigned understands and agrees that this Release means that she is giving up the right to sue
Fannie Mae on any claim or cause of action released.

Release includes all Claims Under Federal, State, Local and Common Low . This Release
includes, but is not limited to: (i) any claims under any federal statute, ordinance, regulation or
executive order, as amended, including, but not limited to, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Civil Rights Act of 1866, 42 U.S.C. Section 1981, the Equal
Pay Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Older Worker Benefit Protection Act, the
Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Notification Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act and Executive Order 11246; (ii) any
claims under any state or local statute, ordinance or regulation, as amended, including, but not
limited to, the District of Columbia Human Rights Act, the District of Columbia Family and Medical
Leave Act, the Virginia Human Rights Law, the Maryland Fair Employment Practices Act, and any
workers  compensation claims; and (iii) any claims under common law, including, but not limited to,
claims for breach of contract, wrongful discharge and tort. The undersigned represents and
reaffirms that she knowingly and voluntarily waives any rights and claims under the federal Age
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, and under the other specific statutes stated
in this section. The undersigned also represents that she has not suffered any work-related injury
for which she has not already filed a claim, and that she has fully complied with her reporting
obligations under Fannie Mae s Code of Business Conduct, Anti-Fraud Policy and Ethical
Responsibility Policy.

No Complaints or Charges . The undersigned represents that she has not filed any complaints
or charges against Fannie Mae or any of the other Releasees with any federal, state, local court,
agency or arbitration forum. The undersigned waives any and all rights to recover in any lawsuit,
judicial action or administrative or other proceeding relating to Fannie Mae brought on her behalf
by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S. Department of Labor, the Office of
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, the District of Columbia Commission on Human Rights, the
District of Columbia Department of Human Rights and Minority Business Development or any other
federal, state or local administrative or fair employment rights enforcement agency. The
undersigned agrees that if any
administrative agency or court maintains or assumes jurisdiction of any charge or complaint against
any of the Releasees on the undersigned s behalf, the undersigned will promptly request that agency
or court to withdraw from the matter. By entering into this Agreement, the undersigned further
withdraws any pending complaints and charges initiated by or relating to the undersigned in Fannie
Mae s Office of Corporate Justice, federal, state, local court, agency or arbitration forum.

Form of
Separation Agreement (AK)1

Ann M. Kappler 
Page 10 of 10 
August 23, 2005

Cooperation . The undersigned agrees that she will fully cooperate with any investigation
conducted by Fannie Mae, by its auditor, by OFHEO (as defined in Paragraph 20 of the Agreement), or
by any federal, state or local government authority relating to Fannie Mae. Nothing contained in
this Agreement precludes the undersigned from communicating or cooperating with any federal, state
or local governmental authority or from taking any action required by law. Fannie Mae agrees that
it will not construe any assertion of attorney client or work product privilege applicable to the
undersigned individually as failure to cooperate. The undersigned understands that Fannie Mae s
privileges may only be asserted or waived by Fannie Mae.

Witness 

Form of
Separation Agreement (AK)1

</EX-99.3>

<EX-99.13>
 14
 w26699exv99w13.htm
 EX-99.13

exv99w13 

Guide
    to Fannie Mae s 2004 
    Annual Report on SEC
     Form 10-K   

Fannie Mae provides this guide as an exhibit to its
     Form 10-K 
    filing of December 6, 2006. It is neither comprehensive nor
    a substitute for the information in the full filing. This guide
    is being distributed only with either the
     Form 10-K 
    or Fannie Mae s press release (including Annex 1),
    dated December 6, 2006, relating to the
     Form 10-K.  

I.   

Overview
    and Highlights  

Background on Restatement   (page 1) 

Impact on Earnings.  The overall impact of Fannie
    Mae s restatement was a total reduction in retained
    earnings of $6.3 billion through June 30, 2004, due to
    the impact of corrected accounting errors through the
    restatement process. The impact of the restatement breaks down
    by year as follows:  (page 72) 

We previously estimated that errors in accounting for derivative
    instruments, including mortgage commitments, would result in a
    total of $10.8 billion in after-tax cumulative losses
    through December 31, 2004. Actual losses through
    December 31, 2004 associated with accounting for derivative
    instruments through this period, as reported in the 2004
     Form 10-K, 
    totaled $7.9 billion.  (page 72) 

In our
     12b-25 
    filing in August 2006, we confirmed our estimate of after-tax
    cumulative losses on derivatives of $8.4 billion, but
    disclosed that our previous estimate of $2.4 billion in
    after-tax cumulative losses on mortgage commitments would be
    significantly less.

In our 2004
     Form 10-K, 
    our retained earnings as of December 31, 2004 includes
    after-tax cumulative losses on derivatives of $8.4 billion,
    and after-tax cumulative net gains on derivative mortgage
    commitments of $535 million, net of related amortization,
    for a total after-tax cumulative impact as of December 31,
    2004 of approximately $7.9 billion related to these two
    restatement items.

Stockholders  Equity.  Stockholders  equity
    increased by $4.1 billion through June 30, 2004,
    despite a decrease in retained earnings. Our restatement
    adjustments resulted in an increase in AOCI of
    $10.4 billion, a decrease in retained earnings of
    $6.3 billion and an increase of $91 million in other
    equity changes as of June 30, 2004. The most significant
    causes of the $10.4 billion AOCI adjustments were the
    reversal of previously recorded derivative cash flow hedge
    adjustments and the recognition of fair value adjustments on
     available-for-sale 
    securities that were previously classified as
     held-to-maturity 
    securities and recorded at amortized cost. The most significant
    cause of the $6.3 billion retained earnings adjustments was
    the recognition in income of derivative fair value adjustments
    due to the loss of hedge accounting.  (page 72) 

Regulatory Capital.  On September 29, 2006,
    OFHEO announced that we were classified as adequately
    capitalized as of June 30, 2006; our core capital of
    $42.0 billion as of June 30, 2006 exceeded our
    statutory minimum capital requirement by $12.6 billion, or
    42.9 percent, and our OFHEO-directed minimum capital
    requirement by $3.8 billion, or 9.9 percent; and our
    total capital of $42.9 billion as of June 30, 2006
    exceeded our statutory risk-based capital requirement by
    $16.6 billion, or 62.9 percent.  (page 180) 

Fair Value of Net Assets.  GAAP requires disclosure
    of the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. In
    addition to the fair value of our financial assets and
    liabilities, we consider the estimated fair value of our net
    assets. The estimated fair value of our net assets, which is a
    supplemental non-GAAP measure, is presented in our supplemental
    non-GAAP consolidated fair value balance sheets. We use fair
    value measures to make investment decisions and to measure,
    monitor and manage risk. We believe that these fair value
    measures, when considered in conjunction with our consolidated
    GAAP financial statements, can serve as valuable incremental
    tools for investors to assess changes in our overall value over
    time relative to changes in market conditions. A reconciliation
    of the estimated fair value of our net assets (non-GAAP) to
    stockholders  equity (GAAP) is presented on page 128
    of the
     Form 10-K 
    and in Annex 1 to the December 6, 2006 press release
    relating to the
     Form 10-K. 
    The estimated fair value of our net assets (net of tax effect)
    was $40.1 billion as of December 31, 2004, an increase
    of $11.7 billion, or 41 percent, from the restated
    fair value of our net assets of $28.4 billion as of
    December 31, 2003. Both our own activities and market
    conditions cause changes in the fair value of our net assets
    (non-GAAP).  (page 128) 

Of the total $11.7 billion increase, approximately
    $2.8 billion of the increase is attributable to our capital
    transactions, consisting primarily of $5.0 billion of gross
    proceeds we received from a preferred stock offering in 2004,
    partially offset by the payment of $2.2 billion of
    dividends to holders of our common and preferred stock. Net cash
    inflows generated by our Single-Family, Housing and Community
    Development ( HCD ) and Capital Markets businesses
    also contributed to the increase in fair value of our net assets
    (non-GAAP). The remainder of the increase is largely
    attributable to changes in market conditions.
     (page 128) 

Description of Business Segments.  Fannie Mae s
    business is organized into three complementary business segments:

Single-Family Credit Guaranty  works with lender customers
    to securitize single-family mortgage loans into Fannie Mae MBS
    and to facilitate the purchase of single-family mortgage loans
    for our mortgage portfolio.  (page 8) 

Housing and Community Development  helps to expand the
    supply of affordable and market-rate rental housing by working
    with our lender customers to securitize multifamily mortgage
    loans into Fannie Mae MBS and facilitate the purchase of
    multifamily mortgage loans for our mortgage portfolio. Our HCD
    business also helps to expand the supply of affordable housing
    by making investments in rental and for-sale housing projects,
    including investments in rental housing that qualify for federal
    low-income housing tax credits.  (page 13) 

Capital Markets  manages our investment activity in
    mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities, and other liquid
    investments. It has responsibility for managing our assets and
    liabilities and our liquidity and capital positions.
     (page 17) 

2

2002:  Results including restatement adjustments:
     (page 93) 

Net income of $3.9 billion.

Diluted EPS of $3.81.

Restated net income decreased $705 million from previously
    reported net income, driven largely by an $8.4 billion
    decrease in the fair value of derivatives; a $7.9 billion
    increase in net interest income; and a $700 million
    increase in guaranty fee income.

2003:  Results including restatement adjustments:
     (page 92) 

Net income of $8.1 billion.

Diluted EPS of $8.08.

Restated net income increased $176 million over previously
    reported net income, driven largely by a $4.1 billion
    decrease in the fair value of derivatives; a $5.9 billion
    increase in net interest income; and a $1.1 billion
    increase in net investment losses.

Capital Impact,
     2002-2003.   The
    restatement adjustments resulted in a net decrease in regulatory
    core capital of $7.5 billion and $7.6 billion as of
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
     (page 95) 

Summary of 2004 Financial Results.  Fannie Mae
    reported diluted EPS of $4.94 for the full year of 2004.
     (page 101) 

Net income totaled $5.0 billion.

The three main drivers of earnings were net interest income of
    $18.1 billion, net derivative fair value losses of
    $12.3 billion, and guaranty fee income of $3.6 billion.

Summary of Segment Results. 

Audited Financial Statements
       (page F-1)  

Selected Financial Data for 2002, 2003, 2004
      (page 62) 

Net Interest Income Summary for 2002, 2003, 2004
      (page 102) 

Guaranty Fee Income Summary for 2002, 2003, 2004
      (page 105) 

2004 Quarterly Review   (page 190) 

3

V.   

Most
    Significant Accounting Changes/Corrections  

We have classified our restatement adjustments into seven
    primary categories:

1. 
 
          Debt and Derivatives.  We identified five errors
    associated with our debt and derivatives. The most significant
    error was that we incorrectly designated derivatives as cash
    flow or fair value hedges for accounting and reporting purposes.
     The restatement adjustments associated with these errors
    resulted in a cumulative pre-tax reduction in retained earnings
    of $12.1 billion as of December 31, 2003. For the
    six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a pre-tax
    increase in net income of $3.0 billion related to the
    accounting errors. The cumulative impact of the restatement of
    these errors on our consolidated financial statements was to
    decrease retained earnings by $9.1 billion as of
    June 30, 2004. (page 74) 

2. 
 
          Commitments.  We identified five errors associated
    with mortgage loan and security commitments. The most
    significant errors were that we did not record certain mortgage
    loan and security commitments as derivatives under SFAS 133
    and we incorrectly classified mortgage loan and security
    commitments as cash flow hedges, which resulted in changes in
    fair value not being reflected in earnings.  The restatement
    adjustments associated with these errors resulted in a
    cumulative pre-tax increase in retained earnings of
    $4.0 billion as of December 31, 2003. For the
    six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a pre-tax
    decrease in net income of $546 million related to these
    accounting errors. The cumulative impact of the restatement of
    these errors on our consolidated financial statements was to
    increase retained earnings by $3.4 billion as of
    June 30, 2004. (page 76) 

3. 
 
          Investments in Securities.  We identified accounting
    errors related to our investments in securities that resulted in
    a cumulative pre-tax reduction in retained earnings of
    $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2003. The cumulative
    impact of the restatement of these errors on our consolidated
    financial statements was to decrease retained earnings by
    $1.8 billion as of June 30, 2004.  (page 77) 

Classification and Valuation of
    Securities.  We identified three errors associated with
    the classification and valuation of securities. The most
    significant error was that we incorrectly classified securities
    at acquisition as
      held-to-maturity  
    that we did not intend to hold to maturity, which resulted in
    not recognizing changes in the fair value of these securities in
    AOCI or earnings. As a result of our review of acquired
    securities, we derecognized all previously recorded HTM
    securities recorded at amortized cost and recognized at fair
    value $419.5 billion and $69.5 billion of AFS and
    trading securities, respectively, in 2003.  The restatement
    adjustments associated with these errors resulted in a
    cumulative pre-tax decrease in retained earnings of
    $186 million as of December 31, 2003. These
    restatement adjustments also resulted in an increase of
    $2.4 billion in total assets and $37 million in total
    liabilities as of December 31, 2003. (page 77) 

4

Impairment of Securities.  We identified
    the following errors associated with the impairment of
    securities: we did not assess certain types of securities for
    impairment and we did not assess interest-only securities and
    lower credit quality investments for impairment.  The
    restatement adjustment associated with these errors resulted in
    a cumulative pre-tax decrease in retained earnings of
    $1.5 billion and a decrease in total assets of
    $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2003. For the
    six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a pre-tax
    increase in net income of $233 million resulting from the
    reversal of historical impairment charges that were recorded in
    2003 in the restated financial statements. (page 78) 

4. 
 
          MBS Trust Consolidation and Sale Accounting.  We
    identified three errors associated with MBS trust consolidation
    and sale accounting. We incorrectly recorded asset sales that
    did not meet sale accounting criteria; we did not consolidate
    certain MBS trusts that were not considered qualifying special
    purpose entities ( QSPE ) and for which we were deemed
    to be the primary beneficiary or sponsor of the trust; and we
    did not consolidate certain MBS trusts in which we owned 100
    percent of the securities issued by the trust and had the
    ability to unilaterally cause the trust to liquidate.  The
    restatement adjustments associated with these errors resulted in
    a cumulative pre-tax decrease in retained earnings of
    $166 million as of December 31, 2003. This was the
    result of the net change in the value of the assets and
    liabilities that were recognized and derecognized in conjunction
    with consolidation or sale activity. For the six-month period
    ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a pre-tax decrease in net
    income of $185 million related to these accounting errors.
    The cumulative impact of the restatement of these errors on our
    consolidated financial statements was to decrease retained
    earnings by $351 million as of June 30, 2004.
    (page 79) 

5. 
 
          Financial Guaranties and Master Servicing.  We
    identified accounting errors related to our financial guaranties
    and master servicing that resulted in a cumulative pre-tax
    increase in retained earnings of $147 million as of
    December 31, 2003. For the six-month period ended
    June 30, 2004, we recorded a pre-tax decrease in net income
    of $143 million related to these accounting errors. The
    cumulative impact of the restatement of these errors on our
    consolidated financial statements was to increase retained
    earnings by $4 million as of June 30, 2004.
     (page 81) 

Recognition, Valuation and Amortization of
    Guaranties and Master Servicing.  We identified seven
    errors associated with the recognition, valuation and
    amortization of our guaranty and master servicing contracts. The
    most significant errors were that we incorrectly amortized
    guaranty fee buy-downs and risk-based pricing adjustments; we
    incorrectly valued our guaranty assets and guaranty obligations;
    we incorrectly accounted for
     buy-ups;  we
    did not record credit enhancements associated with our
    guaranties as separate assets; and we incorrectly recorded
    adjustments to guaranty assets and guaranty obligations based on
    the amount of Fannie Mae MBS held in the consolidated balance
    sheets.  The restatement adjustments associated with these
    errors resulted in a cumulative pre-tax increase in retained
    earnings of $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2003.
    These restatement adjustments also resulted in an increase of
    $144 million in total assets and a decrease in total
    liabilities of $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2003.
    (page 81) 

Impairment of Guaranty Assets and
     Buy-ups.   We
    identified two errors associated with the impairment of
    guaranties: we did not assess guaranty assets or
     buy-ups  for
    impairment in accordance with
     EITF 99-20 
    and SFAS 115, as appropriate.  The restatement
    adjustments related to impairments resulted in a cumulative
    pre-tax decrease in retained earnings of $2.3 billion and a
    decrease of $1.8 billion in total assets as of
    December 31, 2003. (page 82) 

5

6. 
 
          Amortization of Cost Basis Adjustments.  We
    identified multiple errors in amortization of mortgage loan and
    securities premiums, discounts and other cost basis adjustments.
    The most significant errors were that we applied incorrect
    prepayment speeds to cost basis adjustments; we aggregated
    dissimilar assets in computing amortization; and we incorrectly
    recorded cumulative amortization adjustments. Additionally, the
    correction of cost basis adjustments in other error categories,
    primarily settled mortgage loan and security commitments,
    resulted in the recognition of additional amortization.  The
    restatement adjustments relating to these amortization errors
    resulted in a cumulative pre-tax decrease in retained earnings
    of $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2003. For the
    six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a pre-tax
    decrease in net income of $70 million related to these
    accounting errors. The cumulative impact of the restatement of
    these errors on our consolidated financial statements was to
    decrease retained earnings by $1.1 billion as of
    June 30, 2004. (page 83) 

7. 
 
          Other Adjustments.  In addition to the previously
    noted errors, we identified and recorded other restatement
    adjustments related to accounting, presentation, classification
    and other errors that did not fall within the six categories
    described above.  These other restatement adjustments resulted
    in a cumulative pre-tax decrease in retained earnings of
    $973 million as of December 31, 2003. For the
    six-month period ended June 30, 2004, we recorded a pre-tax
    decrease in net income of $320 million related to these
    accounting errors. The cumulative impact of the restatement of
    these errors on our consolidated financial statements was to
    decrease retained earnings by $1.3 billion as of
    June 30, 2004. (page 83). 

VI.   

Other
    Information  

Executive Summary   (page 65) 

Glossary of Terms   (page 35) 

Company Risks.  This section identifies specific
    risks that should be considered carefully in evaluating our
    business.  (page 39) 

Legal Proceedings   (page 50) 

Risk Management.  Effective management of risks is an
    integral part of our business and critical to our safety and
    soundness. In the 2004
     10-K,  we
    provide an overview of our corporate risk governance structure
    and risk management processes, which are intended to identify,
    measure, monitor and manage the principal risks we assume in
    conducting our business activities in accordance with defined
    policies and procedures.  (page 132) 

Credit Risk Management. We assess, price and assume
    mortgage credit risk as a basic component of our business. We
    assume institutional counterparty credit risk in a variety of
    our business transactions, including transactions designed to
    mitigate mortgage credit risk and interest rate risk.
     (page 135) 

Interest Rate Risk Management and Other Market Risks. Our
    most significant market risks are interest rate risk and spread
    risk, which arise primarily from the prepayment uncertainty
    associated with investing in mortgage-related assets with
    prepayment options and from the changing supply and demand for
    mortgage assets.  (page 159) 

Operational Risk Management. Operational risk can manifest
    itself in many ways, including accounting or operational errors,
    business disruptions, fraud, technological failures and other
    operational challenges resulting from failed or inadequate
    internal controls. These events may potentially result in
    financial losses and other damage to our business, including
    reputational harm.  (page 167) 

6

Liquidity and Capital Management.  We actively manage
    our liquidity and capital position with the objective of
    preserving stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of cash
    to meet all of our current and future operating financial
    commitments and regulatory capital requirements. We obtain the
    funds we need to operate our business primarily from the
    proceeds we receive from the issuance of debt.
     (page 169) 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  We enter into
    certain business arrangements to facilitate our statutory
    purpose of providing liquidity to the secondary mortgage market
    and to reduce our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. We
    form arrangements to meet the financial needs of our customers
    and manage our credit, market or liquidity risks. Some of these
    arrangements are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheets
    or may be recorded in amounts different from the full contract
    or notional amount of the transaction, depending on the nature
    or structure of, and accounting required to be applied to, the
    arrangement.  (page 184) 

Impact of Future Adoption of Accounting Pronouncements
      (pages 187) 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
      (page 198) 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting   (page 199) 

Remediation Activities and Changes in Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting   (page 204) 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
      (page 211) 

Executive Compensation   (page 220) 

Director Compensation   (page 231) 

Legal Fees   (page 238) 

7

</EX-99.13>

