<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061208_10-K_edgar_data_18072_0001104659-06-080246_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2776073</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>234957</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>38027</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1655452</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>67</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-080246.hdr.sgml : 20061208
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061207194537
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-080246
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061208
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061207

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CASCADE NATURAL GAS CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000018072
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION [4924]
		IRS NUMBER:				910599090
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07196
		FILM NUMBER:		061263921

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		222 FAIRVIEW AVE N
		CITY:			SEATTLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98109
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2066243900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		222 FAIRVIEW AVENUE N
		CITY:			SEATTLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98109

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 VbZdkL5YF3JqBYIFg7vpvgBG+PaW0WHigPJO3macRQ5aD/v/y3A3ryVLOrckZ+aM
 EbLRWWUVxH6BBtVCyyZbDA==

 0001104659-06-080246.txt : 20061208

10-K
 1
 a06-24934_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-K   

   x                                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13
OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

   For
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006   

   Commission
file number: 1-7196   

   CASCADE NATURAL GAS CORPORATION   

  (Exact name of Registrant
as specified in its charter)  

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on which Registered   

Common Stock, Par
  Value $1 per Share  

New York Stock
  Exchange  

Securities registered
pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act:  None   

  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   Yes    o     No   x  

  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.   Yes     o     No   x  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes    x     No   o  

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    o  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act. (Check one):  

  Large accelerated filer    o            Accelerated
filer   x            Non-accelerated
filer   o  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes    o    No   x  

  As of March 31, 2006, the registrant had
11,471,273 shares of its Common Stock, $1 par value, outstanding. The aggregate
market value of these shares of Common Stock (based upon the closing price of
these shares on the New York Stock Exchange on that date) held by
non-affiliates was $223,778,604.  

  Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of
the registrant s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date:  

  Title:
Common Stock, Par Value $1 per Share         
Outstanding 11,506,996 as of November 30, 2006  

CASCADE NATURAL GAS CORPORATION 
Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K 
For the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2006   

   Table
of Contents     

Page 
  Number   

Part I   

Item 1 Business   

3  

Item 1A Risk Factors   

9  

Item 1B Unresolved Staff
  Comments   

13  

Item 2 Properties   

13  

Item 3 Legal Proceedings   

13  

Item 4 Submission of Matters
  to a Vote of Security Holders   

14  

Part II   

Item 5 Market for
  Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
  of Equity Securities   

15  

Item 6 Selected Financial Data   

16  

Item 7 Management s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

18  

Item 7A Quantitative and
  Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

28  

Item 8 Financial Statements
  and Supplementary Data   

30  

Item 9 Changes in and
  Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

56  

Item 9A Controls and Procedures   

57  

Item 9B Other Information   

61  

Part III   

Item 10 Directors and
  Executive Officers of the Registrant   

61  

Item 11 Executive Compensation   

65  

Item 12 Security Ownership
  of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

77  

Item 13 Certain
  Relationships and Related Transactions   

78  

Item 14 Principal Accountant
  Fees and Services   

79  

Part IV   

Item 15 Exhibits, Financial
  Statement Schedules   

80  

Signatures   

81  

Index to Exhibits   

82  

2  

PART I     

   Item 1.                            Business   

   General   

  Cascade Natural Gas Corporation (Cascade or the
Company) was incorporated under the laws of the state of Washington on January 2,
1953. Its principal business is the distribution of natural gas to customers in
the states of Washington and Oregon. Approximately 70% of its residential and
commercial gas distribution margins are from customers in the state of
Washington.  

  The Company entered into a definitive merger agreement
with MDU Resources Group, Inc. on July 8, 2006 to be acquired for
cash consideration of $26.50 per share. The total value of the transaction,
including the assumption of certain indebtedness, is approximately $475
million. The completion of the acquisition is subject to the approval of
various regulatory authorities and the satisfaction of other customary closing
conditions. The regulatory approvals include those from the Washington
Utilities and Transportation Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission
and certain jurisdictions under which MDU Resources  utility divisions operate.
Regulatory approvals are anticipated to be obtained by mid-year 2007. Pending
the merger, Cascade must comply with the covenants contained in the merger
agreement, but is generally continuing to operate in the ordinary course of
business.  

  As of September 30, 2006, the Company had
approximately 204,000 residential customers, 31,000 commercial customers,
and 700 industrial and other larger customers. Residential, commercial, and
most small industrial customers are generally core customers who take
traditional  bundled  natural gas service, which includes supply, peaking
service, and upstream interstate pipeline transportation. Sales to core
customers in fiscal 2006 accounted for approximately 26% of gas deliveries and
73% of operating margin. The Company s sales to its core residential and
commercial customers are influenced by fluctuations in temperature,
particularly during the winter season. A warmer than normal winter season will
tend to reduce gas consumption while a colder than normal winter season will
have the opposite impact. Also affecting sales to core customers is the
addition of more energy-efficient homes and facilities, consumer behavior
driven by increases in natural gas pricing and a desire to conserve, and a
recent trend to warmer winters in the Company s service areas. Together, these
forces have resulted in reductions in average gas usage per customer. The
Company has received approval for decoupling its margins from weather and
conservation in the state of Oregon allowing for the recovery of margins based
upon the authorized level. The Company has filed for a similar decoupling
mechanism in conjunction with a rate case that it filed in the state of
Washington in February 2006, and is awaiting the decision of the Washington
Utilities and Transportation Commission.  

  Non-core customers are
generally large industrial and institutional customers who have chosen  unbundled 
service, meaning that they select from among several upstream supply, pipeline
transportation, and gas management service options independent of the Company s
distribution service. The Company s margin from non-core customers is derived
primarily from distribution service and to a lesser extent from gas management
service revenue. Gas management service revenue primarily includes fees charged
to non-core customers in consideration of securing gas supplies and pipeline
capacity for the customers.  

   Natural Gas Supply   

  The majority of Cascade s supply of natural gas is
transported via Williams Gas Pipelines West (Williams). Williams owns and
operates a transmission system extending from points of interconnection with El
Paso Natural Gas Company and Transwestern Pipeline Company near Blanco, New
Mexico through the states of New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon
and Washington to the Canadian border near Sumas, Washington. Natural gas is
transported north from the Colorado and   

3     

New Mexico area, and
south from British Columbia, Canada. The Company is also a shipper on the
transmission system of Gas Transmission Northwest Corporation (GTN), owned by
TransCanada Pipeline (TCPL). GTN connects with the facilities of the TCPL at
the international border near Kingsgate, British Columbia and extends through
Washington and central Oregon into California. In addition, Cascade receives
natural gas directly from Duke Energy Gas Transmission  (DEGT) at the Canadian border near Sumas,
Washington and also intra British Columbia at a receipt point known as Station
2 on DEGT.  

  Presently, baseload requirements for Cascade s core
market are provided by eight major gas supply contracts with various expiration
dates ranging from 2007 through 2010 and averaging 590,000 therms per day of
Canadian supply and 191,000 therms per day of domestic supply. These contracts
are supplemented by various service agreements to cover periods of peak demand,
including three storage agreements. One such agreement, with Williams, extends
to October 31, 2014 and provides for 167,890 therms per day and a maximum,
renewable inventory of 6,043,510 therms. The second storage agreement with
Avista Corporation, which is scheduled to terminate on April 30, 2007,
entitles Cascade to receive up to 150,000 therms per day and a maximum,
renewable inventory of 4,800,000 therms. A third contract, also with Williams
for liquefied natural gas (LNG) storage, is effective through October 31,
2014. Under this LNG agreement, Cascade is entitled to inject or withdraw up to
600,000 therms per day to a maximum inventory of 5,622,000 therms. In addition
to withdrawal and inventory capacity, Cascade maintains a corresponding amount
of firm transportation from the storage facility to the city gate for each of
these agreements. During 2006, Cascade also entered into a long-term storage
agreement with Williams for service from Jackson Prairie to commence in 2010
primarily to replace the storage capability from the expiring contract with
Avista Corporation. In November 2006, the Company entered into a
Memorandum of Understanding with Williams (Northwest Pipeline) for a prearranged
discounted transportation agreement for the transportation of Jackson Prairie
stored gas to certain Cascade delivery points to start on November 1,
2009. In exchange for the discounted rate, the Company agreed to extend the
primary terms of its existing transportation agreements with Northwest Pipeline
by five years.  

  Cascade has several options available for the 2007-08
and 2008-09 winter periods to replace the 15,000 dekatherms per day
of withdrawal capability at Jackson Prairie resulting from the expiring Avista
Corporation storage contract. A complete analysis of these options will be
conducted in the upcoming months in order to determine the best alternative(s) for
the Company to pursue until the Jackson Prairie expansion is completed for the
2009-10 winter.  

  The Company enters into various seasonal and annual
gas supply contracts designed to match the load requirements of its customers. Interstate
pipelines provide natural gas to the Company from production areas in the Rocky
Mountain States and from western Canada. Management believes gas supply
resources in those areas are adequate to serve the Company s current needs and
to support future growth. The wholesale price of gas in the region has
increased in recent years, paralleling national trends. Additionally, a
favorable differential that has historically existed between Pacific Northwest
gas prices and national prices has narrowed as new pipelines have increased
access to Rocky Mountain and Canadian supplies by California and mid-west
markets.  

  To mitigate price
volatility, the Company employs a gas procurement strategy for supplies for
sale to core customers that involves entering into physical gas supply
contracts with suppliers at published first-of-the-month index prices for up to
five-year terms. To further mitigate the price volatility, these index-related
supplies are hedged through the use of derivatives, primarily swaps, with
financial institutions. Approximately 90% of the core market s requirement for
fiscal 2007, 60% of fiscal 2008, and 30% of fiscal 2009 are secured with fixed
prices as of the end of fiscal 2006.  

4     

State Regulation   

  The Company s rates and practices are regulated by the
Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission (WUTC) and the Oregon Public
Utility Commission (OPUC).  

  Cascade s gas supply contracts contain pricing
provisions based on market prices, and as a matter of practice, the Company
generally enters into derivatives, generally swaps, to fix the price of future
supplies. To the extent that overall demand is different from the amount of gas
supply under contract and hedged, the net effective price paid by Cascade may
change with respect to supplies purchased for core customers. The Company is
able to pass the effect of such changes, subject to regulatory review, to its
customers by means of a periodic purchased gas cost adjustment (PGA) in each
state. Gas price changes occurring between times when PGA rate changes become
effective are deferred for pass-through in the next PGA. These PGA s include
interest compensation on any deferred collections financed by Cascade.  

  With respect to such gas supplies delivered to Oregon
customers, 67% of the incremental change in the actual cost of gas supplies, as
compared to the forecasted cost reflected in the PGA, is deferred. The remaining
33% (increase or decrease) is absorbed by the Company. Cascade s gas supply
portfolio for Oregon core customers is comprised mostly of gas supplies with
commodity prices that have been fixed through derivative arrangements;
therefore, management believes the risk or opportunity for the Company is not
significant under the 67% / 33% sharing arrangement.  

  Cascade has an earnings sharing mechanism with respect
to its Oregon jurisdictional operations as required by the OPUC. The mechanism
was designed as an incentive to pursue operational efficiencies and new revenue
opportunities, and to share the success of such pursuits with ratepayers if the
Company s earnings exceed a calculated ceiling. Under that arrangement, as
modified in the Company s decoupling proceeding, the Company is authorized to
retain all of its earnings attributable to its Oregon operations up to a
threshold level equal to 175 basis points above a 10.25% return on equity (ROE).
Subsequent years  base ROE is adjusted by 20% of the movement in the average of
the annual yields, reported monthly, for five-, seven-, and ten-year
US Treasury debt securities for the calendar year. It is anticipated that
calendar year 2006 interest rates will result in a sharing threshold of a ROE
of approximately 12.2%. If the adjusted Oregon earnings are below the
threshold, there is no rate adjustment. If the adjusted earnings are above the
threshold, one-third of the earnings exceeding the threshold will be refunded
to customers through future rate reductions.  

  Despite the fact that the Company has an earnings
sharing mechanism in Oregon, the OPUC Staff has initiated an investigation into
the Company s level of earnings in Oregon. In what is commonly referred to as a
 Show Cause  proceeding, the OPUC Staff will have the burden of proof that the
Company s rates are too high. The OPUC Staff will file its direct case on February 15,
2007, and the Company will file its answering case on April 16, 2007.
Unlike general rate cases initiated by utility companies, there is no statutory
time limit associated with this type of proceeding.  

  The Company is also subject to state regulation with
respect to integrated resource planning, and its most recent update of its
Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) was filed in 2004 with both the WUTC and the
OPUC. The IRP shows the Company s optimum set of supply and demand side
resources that minimizes costs and risk over the 20-year planning horizon.
The IRP also sets forth possible core customer growth scenarios for a 20-year
period. In addition, the IRP sets forth the Company s demand side management
goals of achieving certain conservation levels in customer usage.  

  The IRP also includes the Company s supply side
management plans regarding transportation capacity and gas supply acquisition
over a 20-year period. The Company develops updates of the IRP every two
years. Due to the large amount of regulatory activity this past year, the WUTC
has granted the Company an extension to April 15, 2007 for filing the 2006
IRP update. The Oregon IRP update is due in August 2007. These
updated documents take into account input solicited from the public, the WUTC,
and   

5     

OPUC staffs. While the
filing of the IRP with both commissions gives the Company no advance assurance
that its acquisitions of pipeline transportation capacity and gas supplies will
be recognized in rates, management believes that the integrated resource
planning process benefits the Company by giving it the opportunity to obtain
input from regulators and the public concurrently with making these important
strategic decisions. Until the Company receives final regulatory approval of
these decisions in the context of the ratemaking process, the Company cannot
predict with certainty the extent to which the integrated resource planning
process will affect its rates.  

  Like virtually all U.S.
gas utilities, Cascade has experienced a declining trend in per-customer
consumption over the last several years. Given the drivers, this trend is
unlikely to reverse itself. To date, growth in the number of residential and
commercial customers and earnings from other services contributed to offsetting
this reduction. The Company has received approval of its Conservation Alliance
Plan in the state of Oregon providing both conservation and weather
normalization of margins. The Company filed for a similar plan with the state
of Washington in conjunction with its February 2006 rate case filing. The
Company remains optimistic that a similar plan will be approved by the WUTC in
its final rate order due no later than mid-January 2007.  

   Pipeline Safety    

  Cascade is subject to both
state and federal pipeline safety rules. In both Washington and Oregon, the
state commissions enforce the federal rules. Both the federal and state rules are
updated and amended periodically. Both state commissions routinely audit the
Company. Based on recent safety audit findings, the Company believes it is in
good standing with safety staff in both states and is not subject to any
on-going enforcement proceedings. The Pipeline Safety Act of 2002 requires
operators of gas transmission pipelines to identify lines located in High
Consequence Areas (HCA s) and develop Integrity Management Programs (IMP s) to
periodically inspect the integrity of the pipelines and make repairs or
replacements as necessary to ensure the ongoing safety of the pipelines. The
legislation requires Cascade to complete inspection of 50% of the highest risk
pipelines located in its HCA s within the first five years, and the remaining
covered pipelines within 10 years of the date of enactment. The Pipeline Safety
Act also requires re-inspections of the covered pipelines every seven years
from the date of the previous inspection for the life of the pipelines. Cascade
has met all interim deadlines in The Act and is on schedule to meet remaining
deadlines.  

   Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC) Matters    

  Cascade is not subject to
regulation by the FERC; however, FERC actions can affect the amounts Cascade
pays to interstate pipeline companies for interstate deliveries of natural gas
supplies. Several issues are pending before FERC, or are on appeal before the
U.S. Court of Appeals, including substantial general rate increase requests by
both Williams and GTN. The final outcome may affect prices Cascade pays;
however, none would have a significant impact. Since the Company s current
tariffs with the WUTC and OPUC provide for 100% pass-through of costs subject
to FERC regulation, the Company expects that the final resolution of pending
issues should not affect net income.  

   Curtailment Procedures   

  In some previous heating
seasons, cold weather has required Cascade to curtail deliveries to its
interruptible customers. Cascade has not curtailed any supply to firm
customers, except under rarely occurring force majeure conditions. Cascade s
tariffs effective in Washington and Oregon allow for curtailment of
interruptible services, which are provided at rates lower than for firm
services. In the event of curtailment by Cascade of firm service due to force
majeure, Cascade s tariffs provide that it will not be liable for damages to
any customer for failure to deliver gas curtailed in accordance with the
provisions of   

6     

the
tariffs. The tariffs provide for appropriate adjustment of the monthly charges
to firm customers curtailed by reason of an insufficient supply of gas.  

   Territory Served
and Franchises   

  The population of communities served by Cascade totals
approximately 1,080,000. At the end of September 2006, Cascade held the
franchises necessary for the distribution of natural gas in all of the communities
it serves in Washington and Oregon. Under the laws of those states,
incorporated municipalities and counties may grant non-exclusive franchises
conferring upon the grantee certain rights with respect to public streets and
highways in the location, construction, operation, maintenance and removal of
gas distribution facilities.  

  In the opinion of Cascade s
management, none of its franchises contain any restrictions or requirements
that are of a materially burdensome nature, and such franchises are adequate
for the conduct of Cascade s present business. Franchises expire on various
dates from fiscal 2008 to 2065. Management has not incurred significant
difficulties in renewing franchises when they expire and does not expect any
significant problems in the future.  

   Customers   

  Residential and commercial customers principally use
natural gas for space heating and water heating. Once connected, these
customers rarely change from gas service. This category is our fastest growing
with customer count increases of 3-5% during each of the last several
years. The residential and commercial market is very weather-sensitive. See  Seasonality 
below. In addition to the seasonal nature of usage, average consumption per
customer has declined since the beginning of this decade. As mentioned earlier,
the addition of more efficient homes and other buildings, replacing old
appliances with more efficient units, and consumer behaviors drive this trend. Reductions
are most pronounced following significant gas cost increases. Cascade s growth
has contributed to offsetting these declines. As discussed under  State
Regulation,  the Company has received approval of its Conservation Alliance
Plan in the state of Oregon providing both conservation and weather
normalization of margins. The Company filed for a similar plan with the state
of Washington in conjunction with its February 2006 rate case filing. The
Company remains optimistic that a similar plan will be approved by the WUTC in
its final rate order due no later than mid-January 2007.  

  Agreements with Cascade s
principal industrial customers are for fixed terms of not less than one year
and provide for automatic extension from year to year unless terminated by
either party on at least 120-days  notice. The principal industrial
activities in Cascade s service area include the production of pulp, paper and
converted paper products, plywood, industrial chemicals; refining of crude oil;
the processing, flash-freezing and canning of many types of vegetable, fruit
and fish products; processing of milk products; meat processing; drying and
curing of wood and agricultural products; and electric power generation. Electric
generation customers represent a significant portion of industrial revenues. The
demand for gas-fired generation tends to vary with the availability of
hydroelectric power and the relative price of gas.  

   Seasonality   

  Weather is an important
factor affecting gas revenues because of the large number of customers using
gas for space heating. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, 71%
of operating revenues and 104% of income from operations were derived from the
first two quarters (October 2005 through March 2006). Because of the
seasonality of space-heating reve nues, financial results for interim periods
are not indicative of results to be expected for an entire year. To mitigate
the seasonality of space-heating   

7     

revenues,
the Company pursues a marketing strategy of encouraging the installation of
appliances that utilize natural gas more consistently year-round since they are
not as influenced by weather conditions.  

   Competitive
Conditions   

  Cascade operates in a
competitive market for natural gas service. Cascade competes with residual fuel
oil and other alternative energy sources for industrial boiler uses, and oil,
propane, and electricity for residential and commercial space heating, and
electricity for water heating.  

  Competition is primarily based
on price. Though wholesale natural gas prices increased significantly during
2005, they have somewhat abated toward the end of 2006. Cascade s residential
and commercial rate schedules continue to maintain a price advantage over oil
in its entire service territory and have an advantage over electricity in much
of its territory. In addition, natural gas enjoys the advantage of being the preferred
energy choice by builders for new home construction.  

  The large volume industrial
market has always been very sensitive to price fluctuations between the
comparable cost of natural gas and alternate fuels, principally residual fuel
oil used in boiler applications. However, the advent of open access
transportation in the late 1980 s and early 1990 s and the subsequent
restructuring of gas supply and contractual provisions with these customers
have improved the Company s competitive position. With the escalation of
wholesale natural gas prices that began in the 2000 - 2001 heating season, and
again in 2005, the Company has experienced some movement of its gas load to
alternative fuels and some plant curtailments by industrial customers.  

  In addition to multiple
alternative fuels, the Company is subject to bypass. Bypass refers to actual or
prospective customers who install their own facilities and connect directly to
an upstream pipeline and thereby  bypass  the Company s distribution service. The
Company has in the past experienced bypass, but has also experienced success in
offering competitive rates to reduce economic incentives to bypass.  

   The Company competes with others
in acquiring gas supplies for resale to governmental and industrial customers. Further
 opportunities in this area will be dependent upon market conditions that
can change over time, credit worthiness of customers, and the increase or
decrease in the number of competing providers that are available.  

  The
Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) is a major supplier of hydroelectric
power in the Pacific Northwest including Cascade s service area. BPA
significantly influences the electric rates of all classes of customers
including those applications in direct competition with natural gas marketed by
Cascade.  

   Environmental   

  The Company is subject to
federal and state environmental regulation of its operations and properties
through the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the Washington
Department of Ecology and the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality. Such
regulation may, at times, result in the imposition of liability or
responsibility for the cleanup or treatment of existing environmental problems
or for the prevention of future environmental problems. For detailed
descriptions of specific environmental issues, see  Environmental Matters 
under Item 7.  

   Capital
Expenditures    

  Driven by Cascade s high
growth rate, capital expenditures are primarily used to expand the Company s
distribution system to serve new customers. Investments to expand capacity and
to assure a safe and reliable system require a relatively smaller portion of
our overall capital spending. A one-time project, the installation of automated
meter-reading capabilities system-wide, represented $16 million of our capital
spending during fiscal years 2003 and 2004. Total capital expenditures for the
three fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 averaged approximately $27.7
million. Capital expenditures during fiscal 2006   

8     

were
approximately $16 million. Capital spending for fiscal 2007 is expected to be
higher than fiscal 2006 and more in the range of $22-24 million.  

   Non-Utility
Subsidiaries   

  Cascade has four
non-utility subsidiaries, only two of which are actively engaged in business at
present. The first active subsidiary, Cascade Land Leasing, is engaged in the
servicing of loans that were made to Cascade s gas customers to finance their
purchases of energy-efficient appliances. The subsidiary ceased making new
loans in September 1997. In addition, Cascade Land Leasing receives a
small amount of annual royalty on gas production in Colorado. These mineral
rights were a result of historical operations the Company had in Colorado until
the mid-1970 s. The second active subsidiary, CGC Resources, is engaged
in pipeline capacity management, with the objective of mitigating gas costs for
Cascade. The subsidiaries, which in the aggregate account for less than 1% of
the consolidated assets of the Company, do not currently have a significant
impact on Cascade s financial statements.  

   Personnel   

  At September 30, 2006, Cascade had 374 employees.
Of the total employees, 207 are represented by the International Chemical
Workers  Union (ICWU). The present contract for the field operations bargaining
unit negotiated last fiscal year with the union extends to April 1, 2009
and remains in force thereafter from year to year unless terminated by either
party by written notice sixty days prior to the expiration date. The field
operations bargaining unit has 174 of the 207 employees represented by the
ICWU. Historically, the Company and the union have negotiated a new agreement
to become effective as of the earliest expiration date rather than allowing the
existing agreement to remain in force.  

  On November 23, 2005,
29 customer service representatives in the Company s Bellingham and Sunnyside
call centers elected to be represented by the ICWU. The Company and the ICWU
continue to negotiate toward an agreement at this time.  

   Available
Information   

  The Company makes available free of charge, on or
through its website, http://www.cngc.com, its annual, quarterly and current
reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable
after electronically filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. In addition, copies of these documents may be requested, at no
cost, from the Company s corporate headquarters. Requests should be directed to
Shareholder Relations, Cascade Natural Gas Corporation, 222 Fairview Avenue
North, Seattle, WA 98109, or by phone at 1-800-786-2528.  

  To contact any independent
board member, you may write to Larry L. Pinnt, Board of Directors Chair, P.O. Box
87, Redmond, WA 98073-0087, fax to 425-895-1349, or e-mail to
lpinnt@cngc.com.  

   NYSE Certification   

  On March 15, 2006,
the Chief Executive Officer of Cascade filed a 303A.12(a) CEO
Certification with the New York Stock Exchange. The CEO Certification attests
that the Chief Executive Officer is not aware of any violations by the Company
of NYSE Corporate Governance Listing Standards.  

   Item 1A.                    Risk
Factors   

  Cascade s business and
financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including
those set forth below and in other documents we file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Investors should carefully consider these risk factors and
should also be aware that this list is not all   

9     

inclusive
of existing risks. In addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and Cascade
cannot predict those risks or the extent to which they may affect the Company s
business or financial performance.  

   The rates we charge customers for gas distribution
services are established by the OPUC and the WUTC.   Their failure to approve
rates, which provide for recovery of our costs and an adequate return on
invested capital, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of
operations.   

  The rates and terms at
which we resell gas to our customers or transport gas owned by large customers
from the interstate pipeline connection to our customers  facilities must be
approved by the WUTC or the OPUC. The rates are designed to allow us to recover
costs of providing such services and to earn an adequate return on our capital
investment. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures to
expand and improve our distribution system. The failure of the WUTC or the OPUC
to approve on a timely basis requested rate increases to recover increased
costs or to allow an adequate return could adversely impact our financial
condition and results of operations.  

   Higher natural gas commodity prices and fluctuations
in the price of gas may adversely affect our   earnings.   

  In recent years, natural gas commodity prices have
increased dramatically due to growing demand, especially for power generation,
and stagnant North American gas production. In Oregon, we have a Purchased Gas
Adjustment (PGA) tariff, which provides for annual revisions in rates resulting
from changes in the cost of purchased gas. The PGA tariff provides that 33
percent of any difference between actual purchased gas costs and estimated purchased
gas costs incorporated into rates will be recognized as current income or
expense. Accordingly, higher gas costs than those assumed in setting rates can
adversely affect our results of operations.  

  Notwithstanding our
current rate structure, higher gas costs could also result in increased
pressure on the WUTC or the OPUC to seek other means to reduce rates to a level
that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

   Our risk management policies and hedging activities
cannot eliminate the risk of commodity price   movements and may expose
us to additional liabilities for which rate recovery may be disallowed.   

  Our gas purchasing
requirements expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We attempt to
manage our exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk
management procedures, including hedging activities. These risk limits and risk
management procedures may not always work as planned and cannot eliminate the
risks associated with gas purchasing and hedging. These practices are subject
to regulatory review in setting our PGA tariffs and, if found to be imprudent,
could be disallowed.  

   Our results of
operations may be negatively affected by warmer than average weather.     

  A large portion of our
margin is derived from sales to space heating residential and commercial
customers between November 15 and May 15, otherwise known as the
winter heating season. Current rates are based on an assumption of average
weather. Although we have a weather normalization mechanism in effect in
Oregon, approximately 76 percent of our residential and commercial customers
are in Washington, where a similar mechanism is not in effect. Therefore the
Oregon mechanism does not fully insulate us from utility earnings volatility
due to weather. As a result, we are not fully protected against warmer than
average weather, which may have an adverse affect on our results of operations.  

   Customers 
conservation efforts may have a negative impact on our revenues.     

  Higher gas costs and rates
may result in increased conservation by customers, which can decrease sales and
adversely affect results of operations. The OPUC authorized our conservation
tariff, which is designed   

10     

to
recover lost margin due to changes in residential and commercial customers  consumption
patterns. The conservation tariff is intended to adjust for increases or
decreases in consumption attributable to annual changes in commodity costs or
periodic changes in general rates and for deviations between actual and
expected usage. The failure of the OPUC to extend the conservation tariff in
the future could adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations. In addition, the Company filed for a similar plan with the state of
Washington in conjunction with its February 2006 rate case filing. The
Company remains optimistic that a similar plan will be approved by the WUTC in
its final rate order due no later than mid-January 2007. However, there is
no certainty of outcome at this time.  

   Certain of our properties and facilities may pose
environmental risks requiring remediation, the cost of   which could adversely
affect our results of operations and financial condition.   

  We own, or previously owned, properties that may
require environmental remediation or other action. Management has determined
that there is no need to accrue any costs relating to environmental remediation.
The Company s results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent
that estimates of environmental remediation costs increase.  

  There are no assurances
that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new
regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become
applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations which result in increased
compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those
costs are not fully recoverable from insurance or customers, could have a
material effect on our results of operations.  

   Our gas
distribution business is subject to increased competition and eroding price advantage.     

  To the extent that competition increases, our profit
margins may be negatively affected. In the residential market, we compete with
suppliers of electricity, fuel oil, propane and, to a lesser extent, wood. We
also compete with electricity and fuel oil for commercial applications. In the
industrial market, we compete with all forms of energy. Competition among these
forms of energy is based on price, reliability, efficiency and performance.  

  Higher natural gas prices
have eroded or, in some cases, eliminated the competitive price advantage of
natural gas over alternative energy sources. If the higher gas price
environment is sustained, our ability to attract new customers could be
significantly affected, which could have a negative impact  on our customer growth rate and results of
operations. 

   Volatility in the price of natural gas could result in
large industrial customers switching to alternative   energy sources and reduced
revenues, earnings and cash flow.   

  The market price of
alternative energy sources such as coal, electricity, oil and steam is the
primary competitive factor affecting the demand for the Company s gas
transportation services. Certain large industrial customers have, or may
acquire, the capacity to be able to use one or more alternative energy sources
or shift production to facilities outside the Company s service area if the
price of natural gas and delivery services increases significantly. Natural gas
has typically been less expensive than these alternative energy sources. However,
generally over the past four years, natural gas prices have been higher and
more volatile, making some of these alternative energy sources more economical
or, for other reasons, more attractive than natural gas. The Company cannot
predict the future stability of natural gas prices. Should these customers
convert their requirements to another form of energy, the Company s revenues,
earnings and cash flow would be adversely affected.  

11     

Earnings and cash
flow may be adversely affected by downturns in the economy.     

  The Company s operations
are affected by the conditions and overall strength of the national, regional
and local economies, which impact the amount of residential, industrial and
commercial growth and actual gas consumption in the Company s service territories.
Many of the Company s commercial and industrial customers use natural gas in
the production of their products. During economic downturns, these customers
may see a decrease in demand for their products, which in turn may lead to a
decrease in the amount of natural gas they require for production. In addition,
during periods of slow or little economic growth, energy conservation efforts
often increase and the amount of uncollectible customer accounts often
increases. These factors  could
adversely affect our financial condition. 

   The cost of providing pension and post-retirement
benefit plans is subject to changes in pension   assumptions, fluctuations
in the market value of plan assets and changing demographics, and may have a
material effect on our financial results.   

  The Company maintains a
qualified medical contributory defined benefit pension plan, a non-qualified
supplemental pension plan and a post-retirement benefit plan. We may be
required to recognize a material increase or decrease in annual pension or
post-retirement benefit expense based on changes in assumed interest rates,
market returns, and other factors, and we may be required to record a charge to
our balance sheet to the extent that benefit obligations exceed the fair value
of the plan assets.  

   The Company s
business is dependent on its ability to successfully access capital markets.     

  The Company relies
on access to both short-term money markets as a source of liquidity and
longer-term capital markets to fund at least a portion of its utility
construction program and other capital expenditure requirements not satisfied
by cash flow from its operations. If the Company is unable to access capital at
competitive rates, its ability to pursue growth, replacements, and improvements
could be adversely affected. Certain market disruptions or a downgrade of the
Company s credit rating may increase the Company s cost of borrowing or
adversely affect the ability to access one or more financial markets. In
addition to further economic downturns and the overall health of the utility
industry, such disruptions could include:  

             the
bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; 

             capital
market conditions generally; 

             market
prices for natural gas; or 

             terrorist attacks or
threatened attacks. 

   A downgrade in the
Company s credit rating could negatively affect its ability to access capital.     

  Standard and Poor s and
Moody s Investor Services rate Cascade s debt at  BBB+  with a stable outlook
and  Baa1  with a stable outlook, respectively. Although the Company is not aware
of any current plans of S P or Moody s to lower their respective ratings on
Cascade s debt, the Company cannot be assured that such credit ratings will not
be downgraded. Although Cascade does not have any rating downgrade triggers
that would accelerate the maturity dates of outstanding debt, a downgrade in
the Company s credit ratings could adversely affect its ability to renew
existing, or obtain access to new credit facilities and could increase the cost
of such facilities.  

12     

Transporting natural gas involves numerous risks that
may result in accidents and other operating risks   and costs.   

  Our gas distribution
activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as
leaks, accidents and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial
financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life,
significant damage to property, environmental pollution and disruption of our
operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses. The occurrence of
any of these events may not be covered by our insurance policies or recoverable
through rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results
of operations.  

   Failure to complete the planned merger with MDU
Resources Group, Inc. could have a negative impact on   the Company s share price.   

  The completion of our
pending merger with MDU Resources Group, Inc. is subject to the approval
by various regulatory authorities and the satisfaction of other customary
closing conditions. The merger may not occur if that Company is unable to
obtain necessary regulatory approvals in a timely manner, or satisfy other
closing conditions. Therefore, if the merger is not concluded, Cascade s share
price may be impacted.  

   In anticipation of the planned merger with MDU
Resources Group, Inc., personnel may decide to leave the   Company.   

  Individual employees may
experience uncertainty about their post-merger roles with MDU Resources. Issues
relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to
remain with MDU Resources after the merger may cause them to voluntarily leave
the Company for other career opportunities. Loss of significant numbers of
employees, or employees in key positions, could have a detrimental impact on
the Company s ability to carry on certain routine business activities. To
mitigate this risk, the Company has provided  Change-in-Control  incentives to
employees in key roles to encourage them to stay with the Company at least
through the completion of the merger. However, there can be no assurance that
such employees will not leave the Company, or that we will be able to find
adequate replacements if they do depart.  

   Item 1B.                   Unresolved
Staff Comments   

  As of the filing date of
this report, the Company does not have any unresolved comments from the
Securities and Exchange Commission staff.  

   Item 2.                            Properties   

  At September 30, 2006, Cascade s utility plant
investments included approximately 5,408 miles of distribution mains rang ing
in diameter from two inches to sixteen inches, 214 miles of transmission mains
ranging in diameter from two inches to twenty inches, and 3,681 miles of
service lines.  

  The distribution and transmission mains are located
under public property such as streets and highways or on private property with
the permission or consent of the individual owner.  

  Cascade owns 21 buildings
used for operations, office space and warehousing in Washington and six such
buildings in Oregon. It leases two commercial offices and warehouse buildings. Cascade
considers its properties well maintained and in good operating condition, and
adequate for Cascade s present and anticipated needs. All facilities are
substantially utilized.  

   Item 3.                            Legal
Proceedings   

  On July 31, 2006, a complaint was filed with the
Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission (WUTC) by Cost Management
Services, Inc. against the Company. The complaint contends the   

13     

Company s sales to
customers under its gas management program are not allowed. The complainant is
in the gas management business and is a competitor of the Company for this
business with the same customers. The complaint requests that the Company be
directed to cease and desist from making such sales. It further requests the
WUTC determine whether the Company s contracts with its gas management
customers are void or voidable under Washington statutes and to provide other
relief or penalties as the WUTC may consider appropriate under the circumstances.
The Company believes that its gas management business is in compliance with
applicable laws.  

  The parties to the Complaint Docket have filed a
Stipulation of Facts and have agreed to file simultaneous motions and briefs on
the same dates reserved for briefs in the Washington general rate case docket. The
WUTC has indicated that it will issue an order in the Complaint Docket  prior to, or at the same time as, the
final order in the general rate case docket. 

  Incorporated herein by
reference is the information under  Environmental Matters  in Item 7.  

   Item 4.                            Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

  No matters were submitted during the fourth quarter of
fiscal year 2006.  

14  

PART II     

   Item 5.                            Market
for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer
Purchases o  f Equity
Securities 

  The
Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CGC. The
following table states the per-share high and low sales prices of the Common
Stock:  

At September 30,
2006, there were 5,148 registered holders of the Common Stock. The following
table shows for the periods indicated the dividends paid per share on the
Common Stock:  

While the Company s debt
agreements do contain restrictions on the Company s ability to pay dividends in
certain circumstances, at September 30, 2006, the Company was in
compliance with all indebtedness covenants and was not restricted with respect
to dividend payments.  

   Equity
Compensation Plan Information     

Plan Category   

Number of 
  securities to be 
  issued upon 
  exercise of 
  outstanding 
  options, warrants 
  and rights 
  (a)   

Weighted-average 
  exercise price of 
  outstanding 
  options, warrants 
  and rights 
  (b)   

Number of securities 
  remaining available for 
  future issuance under 
  equity compensation 
  plans (excluding 
  securities reflected in 
  column (a)) 
  (c)   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders  

25,000  

$  

20.84  

316,842  

Equity
  compensation plans not approved by security holders  

None  

None  

None  

Total  

25,000  

$  

20.84  

316,842  

15     

Item 6.                            Selected
Financial Data   

  The
following selected financial data are derived from the consolidated financial
statements of the Company.  

   Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive
Income:     

16     

17  

Item 7.                            Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

   Overview   

  The Company is a local distribution company (LDC)
serving approximately 236,000 customers in the states of Washington and Oregon.
Its service area consists primarily of relatively small cities and rural
communities rather than larger urban areas. The Company s primary source of
revenue and operating margin is the distribution of natural gas to end-use
residential, commercial, industrial, and institutional customers. Revenues are
also derived from providing gas management and other services to some of its
large industrial and commercial customers. The Company s rates and practices
are regulated by the Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission (WUTC)
and the Oregon Public Utility Commission (OPUC).  

  Key elements of the
Company s strategy are as follows:  

             Continue
to efficiently and effectively operate the Company to achieve business goals
and maintain full compliance with the terms of the merger agreement with MDU
Resources Group, Inc. 

             Remain
focused on the natural gas distribution business. 

             Pursue
appropriate regulatory treatment, including initiatives to decouple the Company s
earnings from changing customer consumption patterns, and remove other
regulatory impediments to effective management of the business. 

             Economic
expansion of its customer base by prudently managing capital expenditures and
ensuring new customers provide sufficient margins for an appropriate return on
the new investment required to acquire the customers. 

             Continue
to focus on operational efficiencies. 

             Manage cash flow to
minimize the need for additional debt financing. 

   Opportunities and
Challenges     

  The Company operates in a diverse service territory
over a wide geographic area relative to the Company s overall size and number
of customers. The economies of various parts of the service area are supported
by a variety of industries and are affected by the conditions that impact those
industries. Management believes there are continued growth opportunities in the
Company s service area, especially in the residential and commercial segments. Factors
contributing to these opportunities include general population growth in the
service area, including some areas of very rapid growth, and to a lesser
extent, low market penetration in many of the communities served.  

  Overall revenues and margins are negatively impacted
by higher efficiency in new home and commercial building construction, higher
efficiency in gas-burning equipment, and customers taking additional measures
to reduce energy usage. The increasing cost of energy in recent years,
including the wholesale cost of natural gas, continues to encourage such
measures. However, the Company continues to believe that energy efficiency and
conservation are the most viable near-term tactics for reducing customer bills
and influencing wholesale natural gas prices. They also form a vital strategy
for stabilizing the cost of gas over the long term. The traditional regulatory
establishment of rate recovery tied to volumetric sales no longer seems
prudent. This traditional rate design creates a financial disincentive for
utilities to promote conservation. The Company has filed a rate case in the
State of Washington along with a request to decouple the margin recovery from
volume. The Company worked with the regulatory staff and other stakeholders in
this case to develop an acceptable decoupling mechanism that will enable the
Company to promote conservation while still recovering its operating costs and
earning a fair return on its invested capital. Similar approaches have been
implemented in many states, including Oregon (see below), and are   

18     

endorsed by a variety of
organizations, including the National Association of Regulatory Utility
Commissions. The results of such rate requests and other initiatives for
regulatory relief are subject to significant uncertainties.  

  In April 2006, the OPUC approved the Company s
request to implement its Conservation Alliance Program, which effectively
decouples operating margin from the impacts of conservation and weather on gas
usage by residential and commercial customers in its Oregon service area. The
filing provides a mechanism where the Company will adjust its earnings recovery
to fully recover the Commission-granted level of earnings per customer. This is
done via a deferral mechanism for both conservation and weather. In simple
terms, the Company will book the actual earnings and a deferral for both
conservation and normal weather each month. The next year, depending on the
amount of conservation and level of weather, the Company will adjust its rates
either downward or upward to ensure recovery at the allowed level. The Company
agreed to lower its sharing mechanism cap by 125 basis points in exchange for
approval of the Conservation Alliance Program. The Company expects to share
earnings during this fiscal year due to this lowering of the cap.  

  Revenues and margins from the Company s residential
and small commercial customers in Washington are highly weather-sensitive. In a
cold year, the Company s earnings are boosted by the effects of the weather,
and conversely in a warm year, the Company s earnings suffer. Peak requirements
also drive the need to reinforce our systems (i.e., increase capacity). Our
operations group considers innovative approaches such as temporarily utilizing
mobile gas supply rather than making large investments in long-term capacity
increases which may not be fully utilized.  

  Management believes that prospects for continuing
strong residential and commercial customer growth are excellent. The pace of
new home and commercial construction remains steady in communities served by
the Company. In addition, management believes that potential for growth also
exists for converting homes and businesses located on or near the Company s
current lines to gas from other fuels, as well as for expanding the system into
adjacent areas. Customer count growth in this sector has been more than double
the average of U.S. gas utilities.  

  The Company earns approximately one third of its
operating margin from industrial and electric generation customers. Loss of
major industrial customers, or unfavorable conditions affecting an industry
segment, would have a detrimental impact on the Company s earnings. Many
external factors over which the Company has no control can significantly impact
the amount of gas consumed by industrial and electric generation customers and,
consequently, the margins earned by the Company. Such factors may include
base-load electricity demand, refinery operations and electricity price in a
market impacted significantly by hydroelectric generation. Additional electric
generation and industrial customers may be active if there is peaking demand
for electricity. Other external factors that impact different segments of the
industrial market include weather, temperature, seasonality of processes,
energy commodity pricing, price of natural gas supplies, profitability of
industrial segments and regional economic conditions.  

  In November 2005, our customer service call
center organization voted to accept union representation. The Company is
attempting to negotiate an agreement that will support our efforts to
cost-effectively provide superior customer service. The results of negotiations
are uncertain.  

  We carefully analyze the economics of our capital
spending to support growth. When justified under our tariffs, we work with
developers, business owners and residents to share certain construction costs
to assure a fair return to the Company. Non-revenue-generating spending is also
managed to assure that we use the most economically attractive solutions while
providing for a safe and reliable system. Where possible, we work with
developers and customers to utilize shared trenches, significantly reducing the
cost of main extensions and service connections. We also maintain the
flexibility through variable overtime and the use of outside contractors to
adjust our capital construction levels to each period s requirements.  

19     

Management continuously
seeks improvement opportunities in all areas. Our discussion above covering
regulatory change, labor relations, operating practices, our organization and
our investment to maintain and expand our gas delivery system are examples.
Concurrent with supporting the required activities to complete the proposed
merger, management will continue these efforts to maintain and continuously
improve Cascade s operational  performance within the terms of the merger agreement. 

   RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS     

   2006 Versus 2005   

  The Company reported net income
for 2006 of $12,489,000, or $1.09 per share, compared to $9,247,000 or $0.82
per share for 2005. References herein to per-share earnings refer to both basic
and diluted, unless otherwise indicated. Primary factors resulting in the
increase in earnings per share include:  

  Operating Margin Factors:  

             Increase in the number of residential and commercial customers $0.16 per
share 

             Increased natural gas usage per residential and commercial customer $0.10
per share 

             Increased margin from electric generation customers $0.07 per share 

             Improvements in incentive cost sharing related to gas purchases for
Oregon customers $0.04 per share 

             Increased miscellaneous service revenues $0.04 per share 

  Partially offset by:  

             Unfavorable comparison of Oregon earnings sharing ($0.06) per share 

  Cost of Operations Factors:  

             Executive and other transition costs recorded in 2005 $0.13 per share 

             Reduction in 2006 employee benefits expenses $0.11 per share 

             Reduction in 2006 in spending in various expense categories $0.02 per
share 

  Offset by:  

             2006 Expenses related to pending merger ($0.15) 

             Reduction in capitalization of operating expenses ($0.08) per share 

             Increased bad debts expense ($0.04) per share 

             Increased depreciation and amortization expense ($0.03) per share 

  Non-operating Expense (Income)
improved $0.04 per share  

  Increased
effective income tax rate ($0.06) per share  

20     

2005 Versus 2004   

  The Company reported net income
for 2005 of $9,247,000, or $0.82 per share, compared to $13,302,000 or $1.19
per share for 2004. References herein to per-share earnings refer to both basic
and diluted, unless otherwise indicated. Primary factors resulting in the
decrease in earnings per share include:  

  Operating Margin Factors:  

             Reduced natural gas usage per residential and commercial customer $0.15
per share 

             Lower margin from gas management services $0.11 per share 

             Unfavorable comparison of mark-to-market valuations versus 2004 $0.06 per
share 

             Lower margins from deliveries to industrial customers $0.04 per share 

  Cost of Operations Factors:  

             Executive transition costs associated with changes in the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer $0.07 per share 

             Severance compensation associated with staffing reductions $0.06 per
share 

             Increased depreciation expenses $0.05 per share 

             Write-offs of cancelled projects $0.03 per share 

             Increased purchased services expenses $0.03 per share 

             Increased uncollectible accounts expenses $0.02 per share 

  The above were partially offset by the following factors:  

             Increase in the number of residential and commercial customers $0.18 per
share 

             Revision of estimated liability for Oregon Earnings sharing $0.05 per
share 

             Lower
employee benefits expense $0.04 per share 

    OPERATING
MARGIN    

  Operating margins (revenue minus gas cost and revenue
taxes) by customer category for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006,
2005 and 2004 are set forth in the tables below:  

    Residential and
Commercial Operating Margin    

21     

Industrial
and Other Operating Margin    

2006 Versus 2005   

    Residential    and Commercial       Operating   margin   (revenue minus gas costs and revenue
taxes) is primarily a function of customer growth and gas usage per customer. Residential and commercial margins increased
by $6.6 million for the year. Customer growth at 4.5%, with the net addition of
over 10,000 new customers, contributed $2.9 million to margins, while higher
average consumption improved margins by $1.7 million.  With cooler weather, average residential and
commercial consumption increased by 2.9% and 5.4%, respectively. When measured
in degree-days, this fiscal year was 10% cooler than the prior year. The
difference between the consumption rates and the weather is attributed to
weatherization efforts and consumer behavior encouraged by significant gas cost
increases occurring nationwide early in the fiscal year. Miscellaneous services
provided $796,000, and revenues recognized relating to the May 2006
implementation of weather and conservation decoupling in Oregon added $289,000.
Changes relating to the treatment of Oregon gas cost differentials increased
the reported margin by $879,000 when compared to fiscal 2005. 

    Electric    Generation       Margins   from sales to
electric generation plants increased by $1.4 million over 2005, primarily due
to two contract settlements totaling $1 million. 

   Oregon   Earnings
Sharing       Operating   margins in 2006 reflect
$548,000 in accrued Oregon Earnings Sharing reported for the fiscal year,
compared to last year s reversal of $525,000 in accrued sharing.  An April agreement to institute weather
and conservation decoupling reduced the target rate of return for when sharing
is required with our Oregon customers. Together, these adversely impacted the
year-to-year comparison by $1.1 million. 

   2005 Versus 2004   

    Residential    and Commercial       The   net addition of
approximately 10,500 billed residential and commercial customers in 2005
contributed approximately $3,160,000 of additional margin compared to fiscal
2004. This was mostly offset by reductions in gas usage per residential and
commercial customer of 3.8% and 4.4%, respectively, which reduced margins by
$2,550,000. The addition of more efficient homes and businesses, reduced
consumption per consumer, and slightly warmer weather compared to 2004 drove
the lower consumption rates. Weather statistics indicate that fiscal 2005 was
1% warmer than fiscal 2004 and 4% warmer than the average of the previous five
years. 

22     

Industrial      Margin   from natural
gas deliveries to industrial customers decreased by $717,000 year to year. This
reduction is due to a variety of reasons including contract changes reducing
minimum requirements, a decline in the number of customers and reduced usage by
several sectors including chemical and paper manufacturing. 

    Electric    Generation       Margin   from natural
gas deliveries to electric generation customers decreased  $350,000 for the year with the decline
attributable to lower-cost hydroelectric supplies and the increased wholesale
price of natural gas. Looking ahead, gas usage by generation customers will
continue to depend on the variables of regional demand for power, availability
of hydro resources, and the relationship between the market price of
electricity and the cost of gas. 

    Gas    Management       Gas   management
services margin was down $1,877,000 from 2004. The Company has lost sales and
margin as a result of increased competition for the sale of gas supplies to
large-volume customers. 

   Oregon   Earnings
Sharing       The   change in Oregon Earnings
Sharing amounts are the result of revised estimates of liability for refunds to
Oregon customers related to OPUC requirements. As of the end of 2004, the
Company estimated its liability to be $525,000. Based on a final analysis
approved by the OPUC, 2004 and 2005 earnings were not sufficient to trigger a
sharing with customers, and in 2005 the $525,000 2004 estimate was reversed. 

    COST OF
OPERATIONS    

   2006 Versus 2005   

  Full year cost of
operations (operating expense, depreciation and amortization, and property and
miscellaneous taxes) increased by $780,000 compared to 2005. Net of merger
related costs of $2.7 million, full year cost of operations was $1.9 million
lower. Favorable items include $2.4 million in transition costs recognized in
fiscal 2005, a $2.0 million reduction in employee benefits costs, and another
$309,000 in reduced spending across a broad range of operating costs. Offsetting
these savings was a $1.5 million reduction in capitalized expenses related to
management initiatives to reduce spending on capital projects. Bad debts
expense increased $741,000 due to higher revenues and customer bills.
Depreciation increased $587,000 reflecting higher depreciable assets resulting
from capital spending.  

   2005 Versus 2004   

  The primary drivers of the $3,683,000 (9.1%) increase
in operating expenses are organizational changes in 2005. Costs of $1,234,000
were recognized related to the replacements of the Company s Chief Executive
and Chief Financial Officers. The expenses were primarily made up of severance
compensation for the retiring executives, hiring expenses, and signing bonuses
for the new executives. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company eliminated
22 employee positions resulting in $1,121,000 in severance expenses.  

  Operating expenses in 2005 included the write-off of
$596,000 in capital projects determined to no longer be viable. The projects
were primarily related to development of computer software applications.  

  Purchased services expenses in 2005 were higher by
$532,000 compared to 2004. The primary driver of this increase is the costs
related to the Company s Sarbanes-Oxley compliance work, with increased costs
of $337,000 over 2004. Bad debts expense increased $325,000 over 2004. Driving
this increase are higher gas costs resulting in higher customer bills. Management
believes the increase also stems in part from the transition of customer service
and collections activities from 15 offices to a single consolidated customer
service call center. Employee benefits expense decreased $625,000. The primary
drivers of the decrease were reductions in medical and dental expenses, for
active employees, and in retiree medical expense.  

23     

Depreciation and
amortization expense increased $949,000 reflecting higher depreciable assets
resulting from capital spending.  

    NONOPERATING
EXPENSE (INCOME)    

  An $801,000 reduction in
net Nonoperating expense (income) in 2006 is primarily the result of interest
income recognized with the receipt of two income tax refunds.  

    INCOME
TAXES    

  The changes in the provision for income taxes from
2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 are attributable to the changes in pre-tax
earnings, as well as an increase in the effective tax rate. The Company has
incurred costs in connection with its pending merger. Certain of those costs
are not deductible on the Company s tax return, and are permanent differences
between book and tax income. The resulting increase in income taxes from the
non-deductibility of these expenses was $596,000.  

  The changes in the
provision for income taxes from 2004 to 2005 are primarily attributable to the
changes in pre-tax earnings.  

   LIQUIDITY AND
CAPITAL RESOURCES     

  The seasonal nature of the Company s business creates
short-term cash requirements to finance customer accounts receivable and
construction expenditures. To provide working capital for these requirements,
the Company has a $60,000,000 bank revolving credit commitment. This agreement
has a variable commitment fee and a term that expires in October 2007. The
Company also has a $10,000,000 uncommitted line of credit. As of September 30,
2006, there were no outstanding borrowings under these credit lines.  

  Due to the nature of Cascade s business, which is
characterized by reliable payments from a stable customer base and our
expectations that capital spending will be primarily funded from internal
sources, we expect to have limited need to source additional capital during fiscal
year 2007. For this reason, combined with 
the availability of short-term credit and the ability to issue long-term debt
and additional equity, management believes it has adequate financial
flexibility to meet its anticipated cash needs.   

  The
table below shows the Company s future commitments under contractual
obligations as of September 30, 2006:  

24     

OPERATING
ACTIVITIES    

  Cash provided by operating
activities in 2006 improved $16.7 million over last year. In addition to
improved net income, the primary factor was the net reduction in deferred gas
cost funded by the Company, contributing $21.9 million. This improvement was
partially offset by $6.5 million from the reversal of temporary differences
between book and tax income related to deferred gas costs.  

    INVESTING
ACTIVITIES    

  Cash used by investing
activities was down $11.8 million compared to 2005. Part of the difference
was due to $2.2 million of one-time specific system reinforcement expenditures
and $1.0 million relating to the completed AMR and call center centralization
projects in the first three quarters of fiscal year 2005. The remainder
reflects the Company s new investment evaluation process implemented in the
first quarter to assure that all capital spending provides an adequate return
or is required for safety or regulatory compliance.  

    FINANCING
ACTIVITIES    

  Other than the payment of
dividends, the Company s primary financing activity in fiscal 2006 was the
$12.5 million net reduction in short-term debt. This reduction in debt was facilitated
by favorable operating cash flow and reduced capital spending.  

   ENVIRONMENTAL
MATTERS     

  There are two claims
against the Company for cleanup of alleged environmental contamination related
to manufactured gas plant sites previously operated by companies that were
subsequently merged into the Company.  

  The first claim was
received in 1995 and relates to a site in Oregon. An investigation has shown
that soil and groundwater contamination exists at the site. There are parties
in addition to the Company that are potentially liable for cleanup of the
contamination. Some of these other parties have shared in the costs expended to
date to investigate the site, and it is expected that these and potentially
other parties will share in the cleanup costs. Several alternatives for
remediation of the site have been identified, with preliminary estimates for
cleanup ranging from approximately $500,000 to $11,000,000. It is not known at
this time what share, if any, of the cleanup costs will actually be borne by
the Company. The Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) is currently
reviewing a Focused Feasibility Study prepared for the site and is expected to
select a preferred alternative from that report. It is not known when the
decision will be made by DEQ.  

  The second claim was
received in 1997 and relates to a site in Washington. A preliminary
investigation has determined that there is evidence of contamination at the
site, but there is also evidence that other property owners may have
contributed to the contamination. There is currently not enough information
available to estimate the potential liability associated with this claim, but
the Company and other parties may become involved in future investigation or
remediation of the site as increased interest has been expressed concerning its
potential for redevelopment.  In particular, the Company is aware that the local city government has
secured federal grants for further investigation of the site. At this time, no
formal investigation plan has been communicated to the Company. 

  Management believes it has
adequate insurance to cover the costs of the above two claims. In the event the
insurance proceeds do not completely cover the costs, management intends to
seek recovery from its customers through increased rates. There is precedent
for such recovery through increased rates, as both the Washington Utilities and
Transportation Commission (WUTC) and the Oregon Public Utilities Commission
(OPUC) have previously allowed regulated utilities to increase customer rates to
cover similar costs.  

25     

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING
POLICIES     

  The
Company s financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). In
following GAAP, management exercises judgment in selection and application of
accounting principles. Management considers Critical Accounting Policies to be
those where different assumptions regarding application could result in
material differences in financial statements.  

    USE OF
ESTIMATES    

  The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, at the
date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. The Company has used estimates in
measuring certain deferred charges and deferred credits related to items
subject to approval of the WUTC and the OPUC. Estimates are also used in the
development of discount rates and trend rates related to the measurement of
retirement benefit obligations and accrual amounts, allowances for doubtful
accounts, unbilled revenue, valuation of derivative instruments, and in the
determination of depreciable lives of utility plant. On an ongoing basis,
management evaluates the estimates used based on historical experience, current
conditions, and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under
the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions.  

    REVENUE
RECOGNITION    

    The Company recognizes operating revenues based on
deliveries of gas and other services to customers. This includes estimated
revenues for gas delivered but not billed to residential and commercial
customers from the latest meter-reading date to the end of the accounting
period.    

    REGULATORY
ACCOUNTING    

  The Company s accounting policies and practices are generally the same as
used by unregulated companies for financial reporting under GAAP. However,
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 71,  Accounting for
the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation , requires regulated companies to
apply accounting treatment intended to reflect the financial impact of
regulation. For example, in establishing the rates to be charged to the Company s
retail customers, the WUTC and the OPUC may not allow the Company to charge its
customers for recovery of certain expenses in the same period they are incurred.
Instead, rates are expected to be established to recover costs that were
incurred in a prior period. In this situation, following FAS No. 71
requires the Company to defer these costs and include them as regulatory assets
on the balance sheet. In the subsequent period when these costs are recovered
from customers, the Company then amortizes these costs as expense in the income
statement in an amount equivalent to the amounts recovered. Similarly, certain
revenue items, or cost reductions, may be deferred as regulatory liabilities, which
are later amortized to the income statement as customer rates are reduced. In
order to apply the provisions of FAS No. 71, the following conditions must
apply:  

             An independent regulator approves the company s customer rates. 

             The rates are designed to recover the company s costs of providing the
regulated services or products. 

             There is sufficient demand for the regulated service to reasonably assure
that rates can be set at a level to recover the costs. 

  The
Company periodically assesses whether conditions merit the continued
applicability of FAS No. 71. In the event the Company should
determine in the future that all or a portion of its regulatory   

26     

assets and liabilities no longer meet the above
criteria, it would be required to write off the related balances of its
regulatory assets and liabilities and reflect the write-off in its income
statement.  

    PENSION
PLANS    

  The Company has a defined benefit pension plan
substantially covering all union employees and salaried employees hired before September 30,
2003. The Company also provides executive officers with supplemental
retirement, death and disability benefits. These plans are described in the
footnotes to the financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.  

  The Company s pension costs for these plans are
affected by the amount of cash contributions to the plans, the return on plan
assets, and by employee demographics including age, compensation, and length of
service. Actuarial formulas are used in the determination of pension costs and
are affected by actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Key
actuarial assumptions include the expected return on plan assets, the discount
rate used in determining the projected benefit obligation and pension costs,
and the assumed rate of increase in employee compensation. Changes in these
assumptions may significantly affect pension costs. Changes to the provisions
of the plans may also impact current and future pension costs. Changes in
pension plan obligations resulting from these factors may not be immediately
recognized as pension costs, but generally are recognized in future years over
the remaining average service period of pension plan participants.  

  The Company s funding policy is to contribute amounts
equal to or greater than the minimum amounts required to be funded under the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act, and not more than the maximum amounts
currently deductible for income tax purposes. The Company contributed
$3,940,000 in 2006 and $3,365,000 in 2005 to the pension and supplemental
executive retirement plans, and expects to contribute approximately $3,500,000
in 2007.  

  The discount rate the Company selects for measuring
its benefit obligation at September 30, 2006, is based on the Citigroup
Pension Discount Curve, updated for yields through September 30, 2006.  

  In selecting an assumed
long-term rate of return on plan assets, the Company considers past performance
and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the plan. In 2006
and 2005, the Company s assumed rate of return on plan assets was 7.75% and
8.25%, respectively. A reduction in the assumed rate of return would result in
increases in pension liability and pension costs.  

    DERIVATIVES    

  The Company accounts for derivative transactions
according to the provisions of FAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities , as amended. This standard requires that
the fair value of all derivative financial instruments be recognized as either
assets or liabilities on the Company s balance sheet.  The Company applies FAS No. 71 to
periodic changes in fair market value of derivatives associated with supplies
for core customers and records an offset in regulatory asset and regulatory
liability accounts.  

  Most of the Company s contracts for purchase and sale
of natural gas qualify for the normal purchase and normal sales exception under
FAS No. 133, and are not required to be recorded as derivative assets and
liabilities. Accordingly, for these contracts the Company recognizes revenues
and expenses on an accrual basis, based on physical delivery of natural gas. The
Company applies mark-to-market accounting to financial derivative contracts. Periodic
changes in fair market value of derivatives associated with supplies for
non-core customers are recognized in earnings or, if hedge accounting is
applied, in Other Comprehensive Income.  

27  

New Accounting Standards     

  Information on new
accounting standards is included in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this report.  

   Item
7A.                    Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

  The Company has evaluated
its risk related to financial instruments whose values are subject to market
sensitivity. The Company has fixed-rate debt obligations but does not currently
have derivative financial instruments subject to interest rate risk. Cascade
makes interest and principal payments on these obligations in the normal course
of its business and may redeem these obligations prior to normal maturities if
warranted by market conditions.  

  The Company s natural gas
purchase commodity prices are subject to fluctuations resulting from weather,
congestion on interstate pipelines, and other unpredictable factors. The
Company s Purchased Gas Cost Adjustment (PGA) mechanisms assure the recovery in
customer rates of prudently incurred wholesale cost of natural gas purchased
for the core market. The Company primarily utilizes financial derivatives, and
to a lesser extent, fixed price physical supply contracts to manage risk
associated with wholesale costs of natural gas purchased for customers. The
fair value of these derivatives as of September 30, 2006 is a net
liability of $41 million. We monitor the liquidity of our financial derivative
contracts. Based on the existing open interest in the contracts held, we
believe existing contracts to be liquid. All of our financial derivative
contracts settle within the next four years, with the following estimated
future cash payments: $25.3 million in 2007, $8.6 million in 2008, $6.8 million
in 2009 and $0.3 million in 2010. These amounts will change based on
market prices at the time contract settlements are fixed.  

  With respect to derivative
arrangements covering natural gas supplies for core customers, periodic changes
in fair market value are recorded in regulatory asset or regulatory liability
accounts, pursuant to authority granted by the WUTC and OPUC, recognizing that
settlements of these arrangements will be recovered through the PGA mechanism.  

  For derivative
arrangements related to supplies for non-core customers, which are not covered
by a PGA mechanism, periodic changes in fair market value are recognized in
earnings or in Other Comprehensive Income.  

   FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS     

  The Company s discussion
in this report, or in any information incorporated herein by reference, may
contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of
historical facts, are forward-looking statements, including statements
concerning plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance.
When used in Company documents or oral presentations, the words  anticipate ,  believe ,
 estimate ,  expect ,  objective ,  projection ,  forecast ,  goal ,  intend ,  plan ,
 may , or similar words are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  

  These
forward-looking statements reflect the Company s current expectations, beliefs
and projections about future events that we believe may affect the Company s
business, financial condition and results of operations, and are expressed in
good faith and are believed to have a reasonable basis. However, each such
forward-looking statement involves risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and is
qualified in its entirety by reference to the following important factors,
among others, that could cause the Company s actual results to differ
materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements:  

             factors
affecting regulatory approvals of the Company s proposed merger with MDU
Resources Group, Inc. 

28     

prevailing
state and federal governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those
of the Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission, the Oregon Public
Utility Commission, and the U.S. Department of Transportation s Office of
Pipeline Safety, with respect to allowed rates of return, industry and rate
structure, purchased gas cost and investment recovery, acquisitions and
dispositions of assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant
facilities, the maintenance of pipeline integrity, and present or prospective
wholesale and retail competition; 

             weather conditions and other natural phenomena; 

             unanticipated population growth or decline, and
changes in market demand caused by changes in demographic or customer
consumption patterns; 

             changes in and compliance with environmental and
safety laws, regulations and policies, including environmental cleanup
requirements; 

             competition from alternative forms of energy and
other sellers of energy; 

             increasing competition brought on by
deregulation initiatives at the federal and state regulatory levels, as well as
consolidation in the energy industry; 

             the potential loss of large volume industrial
customers due to  bypass  or the shift by such customers to special competitive
contracts at lower per-unit margins; 

             risks, including creditworthiness, relating to
performance issues with customers and suppliers; 

             risks resulting from uninsured damage to the
Company s property, intentional or otherwise, or from acts of terrorism; 

             unanticipated changes that may affect the
Company s liquidity or access to capital markets; 

             unanticipated changes in interest rates or in
rates of inflation; 

             economic factors that could cause a severe
downturn in certain key industries, thus affecting demand for natural gas; 

             unanticipated changes in operating expenses and
capital expenditures; 

             unanticipated changes in capital market
conditions, including their impact on future expenses and liabilities relating
to employee benefit plans; 

             potential inability to obtain permits, rights of
way, easements, leases, or other interests or necessary authority to construct
pipelines, or complete other system expansions; 

             changes in the availability and price of natural
gas; and 

             legal and administrative proceedings and
settlements. 

  In light of these risks,
uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances
discussed in this report, or in any information incorporated herein by
reference, may not occur and actual results could differ materially from those
anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements.  

  Any forward-looking
statement by the Company is made only as of the date on which such statement is
made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking
statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the
statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of any unanticipated events. New
factors emerge from time to time, and the Company is not able to predict all
such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor or the extent to
which such factors may cause results to differ materially from those contained
in any forward-looking statement. You are also advised to consult the other
reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission as well as the
disclosure under  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.  

29  

Item
8.                            Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   

   REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Cascade Natural Gas Corporation 
Seattle, Washington  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Cascade Natural Gas Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as
of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of
income and comprehensive income, common shareholders  equity, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index under
Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are
the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule
based on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Cascade
Natural Gas Corporation and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2006 and
2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended September 30, 2006, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.  

  We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on the criteria
established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated December 6, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion on
management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting.  

30  

CASCADE NATURAL GAS CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.     31  

CASCADE NATURAL GAS CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.     32  

CASCADE NATURAL GAS CORPORATION  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Continued)   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.     33  

CASCADE NATURAL GAS CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.     34  

CASCADE NATURAL GAS CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.     35  

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

   Note 1 Nature of
Business   

  Cascade Natural Gas Corporation (the Company) is a
local distribution company (LDC) engaged in the distribution of natural gas. The
Company s service territory consists of towns in Washington and Oregon, ranging
from the Canadian border in northwestern Washington to the Idaho border in
eastern Oregon.  

  As of September 30, 2006, the Company had
approximately 204,000 residential customers, 31,000 commercial customers, and
700 industrial and other larger customers. Approximately 200 of the larger
industrial customers are non-core customers.  

  Residential, commercial, and smaller industrial
customers are core customers who take traditional  bundled  natural gas
service, which includes supply, peaking service, and upstream interstate
pipeline transportation. Sales to core customers account for approximately 26%
of gas deliveries and 73% of operating margin. The Company s sales to its core
residential and commercial customers are influenced by fluctuations in
temperature, particularly during the winter season. A warm winter season will
tend to reduce gas consumption. Over the longer term, these fluctuations tend
to offset each other, as rates charged to customers are developed based on the
assumption of normal weather. However, consumption is also influenced by energy
efficiency of customers  appliances as well as consumer decisions to reduce
natural gas usage in response to higher prices.  

  Non-core customers are generally large industrial,
electric generation, and institutional customers who have chosen  unbundled 
service, meaning that they select from among several supply and upstream
pipeline transportation options, independent of the Company s distribution
service. The Company s margin from non-core customers is derived primarily from
this distribution service, as well as gas management services. The principal
industrial activities of its customers include the generation of electricity,
processing of food, processing of forest products, production of chemicals, and
refining of crude oil.  

  The Company is subject to
regulation of most aspects of its operations by the Washington Utilities and
Transportation Commission (WUTC) and the Oregon Public Utility Commission
(OPUC). It is subject to regulatory risk primarily with respect to recovery of
costs incurred. Various deferred charges and deferred credits reflect
assumptions regarding recovery of certain costs through temporary customer rate
adjustments during future periods.  

   Note 2 Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies   

  The Company s accounting records and practices conform
to the requirements of the uniform system of accounts prescribed by the WUTC
and the OPUC.  

    Principles
of consolidation:      The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Cascade Natural Gas Corporation and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries: Cascade Land Leasing Co.; CGC Properties, Inc.;
CGC Energy, Inc.; and CGC Resources, Inc. All inter-company
transactions are eliminated in consolidation. 

    Reclassifications:      Certain
reclassifications have been made in the 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet to
conform to the classifications used in 2006 as follows: 

             In
Deferred Charges and Other, Regulatory assets of $1,185,000 had previously been
included in Other at September 30, 2005. 

36     

In
Current Liabilities, Derivative instrument liability-energy commodity of
$132,000 had previously been included in Other current liabilities at September 30,
2005. 

             In
Deferred Credits and Other Non-current Liabilities, Derivative instrument
liability-energy commodity of $1,326,000 had previously been included in Other
at September 30, 2005. 

    Utility
plant:      Utility plant is stated at the historical
cost of construction or purchase. These costs include payroll-related costs
such as taxes and other employee benefits, supervisory costs, general and
administrative costs, and the cost of funds used during construction. Maintenance
and repairs of property, and replacements and renewals of items deemed to be
less than units of property, are charged to operations. Units of utility plant,
retired or replaced, are credited to property accounts at cost. Such amounts
plus removal cost, less salvage, are charged to accumulated depreciation. In
the case of a sale of non-depreciable property or major operating units, the
resulting gain or loss on the sale is included in earnings. 

  Depreciation of utility plant is computed using the
straight-line method. The Company periodically conducts depreciation studies to
establish and update asset depreciation lives. Asset lives used for computing
depreciation range from six to seventy years, and the weighted average annual
depreciation rate is approximately 2.9%. The Company periodically reviews the
carrying amount of its utility plant and other long-lived assets for impairment.
An asset is considered impaired when estimated future cash flows are less than
the carrying amount of the asset. In the event the carrying amount of such
asset is deemed not recoverable, the asset is adjusted to its fair value. Fair
value is determined based on discounted future cash flow.  

  The Company periodically reviews items, such as its
franchises and easements, environmental, and other legal requirements, which
may give rise to asset retirement obligations (ARO), and records such ARO s
pursuant to the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(FAS) 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations  and FASB
Interpretation (FIN) No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 .  

    Investments
in non-utility property:      Real estate, carried at
the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value, is the primary investment. 

    Cash and cash equivalents:      For
purposes of reporting cash flows, the Company accounts for all liquid
investments with a purchased maturity of three months or less as cash
equivalents. The following provides additional information to the Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows: 

Materials,
supplies and inventories:      Materials and supplies
for construction, operations, and maintenance are recorded at cost. Inventories
of natural gas are recorded at lower of cost or market. 

37     

Regulatory
accounts:      The Company follows Statement of FAS No. 71,
  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types
of Regulation  . This statement provides for the deferral of certain
costs and benefits that would otherwise be recognized in revenue or expense, if
it is probable that future rates will result in recovery from customers or
refund to customers of such amounts. 

  Regulatory
assets (liabilities) at September 30, 2006 and 2005 include the following:  

Under Non-current Assets, regulatory assets related to
Unamortized loss on reacquired debt, Gas supply hedging, and Other are included
on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in  Other Deferred Charges .  

    Revenue
recognition:      The Company recognizes operating
revenues based on deliveries of gas to customers. This includes estimated
revenues for gas delivered but not billed to residential and commercial
customers from the latest meter-reading date to the end of the accounting
period. 

    Allowance
for doubtful accounts:      With respect to its
residential and commercial customer accounts, the Company establishes an
allowance for doubtful accounts based on its assessment of aged accounts
receivable and on historical trends and ratios of write-offs to revenues. With
respect to industrial customer accounts, which are generally significantly
larger than residential and commercial, a specific allowance is established for
accounts determined to be at risk of collection. 

    Leases:      The
Company leases a portion of its vehicle fleet. These leases are classified as
operating leases. The Company s primary obligation under these leases is for a
twelve-month period, with options to extend the lease thereafter. Commitments
beyond one year are not material. Rent expense under operating leases totaled
$628,000, $641,000, and $776,000, for fiscal years ended September 30,
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. 

    Federal
income taxes:      Deferred income taxes are
determined using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax
assets and liabilities are measured based upon the temporary differences
between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities,
using currently enacted tax rates. The Company normalizes temporary differences
between book income and taxable income, with the exception of depreciation
differences on assets placed in service prior to 1981, consistent with the
policies of the WUTC and OPUC. With respect to utility plant placed in service
after 1980, the Company calculates its deferred income tax provision to conform
to the Federal normalization requirements, as approved by the WUTC and OPUC. 

38     

Investment
tax credits:      Investment tax credits were
deferred and are amortized over the remaining life of the properties that gave
rise to the credits. 

    Use
of estimates:      The preparation of financial
statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities, at the date of the financial statements, and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from these estimates. The Company has used estimates in
measuring certain regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities related to items
subject to approval of the WUTC and the OPUC. Estimates are also used in the
development of discount rates and trend rates related to the measurement of
retirement benefit obligations and accrual amounts, allowances for doubtful
accounts, values of derivative instruments, unbilled revenue, in the
determination of depreciable lives of utility plant, and in the measurement of
asset retirement obligations. 

    Stock-based compensation:      The
Company applies FAS No. 123 (revised 2004),   Share-Based Payment  .
Under this standard, the Company records the cost of employee services received
in exchange for an award of its stock based on the fair value of the award as
of the grant date. The cost is recognized over the period during which the
employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. Prior to
fiscal 2006, the Company accounted for its stock-based compensation using the
intrinsic value method prescribed in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  
rather than using the fair-value-based method prescribed under FAS No. 123,
  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation . 
See Note 7 for more information about the Company s stock-based compensation
plan. Had compensation expense been determined in accordance with FAS No. 123,
the Company s net income and earnings per share for 2005 and 2004 would have
been as follows: 

See also the discussion of   FAS No. 123
(revised 2004)   under   New
Accounting Standards   below.  

    Comprehensive
income (loss):      Comprehensive income for the
fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, included Other
Comprehensive Income of $34,000, $121,000, and $822,000, net of income tax. The
charges are related to minimum pension liability adjustments and unrealized
losses on energy commodity derivatives. See Note 11 for more information on the
Company s minimum pension liability adjustments. 

    Segment
reporting:      Management views the Company as
operating as a single segment, that of a local distribution company in the
Pacific Northwest. 

    Derivatives:        The Company records derivative transactions according
to the provisions of FAS No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities  ,
as amended. This standard requires that the fair value of all derivative
financial instruments be recognized as either assets or liabilities on the
Company s balance sheet. With respect to derivative arrangements covering gas
supplies for core customers, periodic changes in fair market value are recorded
in regulatory asset or regulatory liability  

39     

accounts, pursuant to
authority granted by the WUTC and OPUC, recognizing that settlements of these
arrangements will be recovered through the Purchased Gas Cost Adjustment (PGA)
mechanism.  

  The Company s contracts for purchase and sale of
natural gas generally qualify for the normal purchase and normal sales
exceptions under FAS No. 133. Accordingly, the Company recognizes revenues
and expenses on an accrual basis, based on physical delivery of natural gas.
The Company applies mark-to-market accounting to financial derivative
arrangements.  

  For derivative
arrangements related to supplies for non-core customers, which are not covered
by a PGA mechanism, the Company elects whether to apply hedge accounting to the
derivative. If hedge accounting is applied, periodic changes in the fair market
value are recorded in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). Under hedge accounting,
amounts recorded in OCI are reclassified into earnings in the period the hedged
transaction affects earnings. If hedge accounting is not applied, periodic
changes in fair market value are recognized in earnings.  

   NEW ACCOUNTING
STANDARDS     

   FAS No. 151:        In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued FAS No. 151,   Inventory
Costs  . This standard is an amendment of Accounting Research
Bulletin (ARB) No. 43, clarifying the requirement that abnormal amounts of
idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and spoilage be recognized as
current period costs. The Company s adoption of this standard on October 1,
2005 did not have a significant impact on the Company s financial statements.  

    FAS No.
123 R:        In December 2004, FASB issued FAS No. 123
(revised 2004),   Share-Based Payment  . This
statement is a revision of FAS No. 123,   Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation  , and supersedes Accounting Principles
Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,   Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees  . The Company adopted this standard effective October 1,
2005. Under FAS No. 123R, the Company is required to recognize as expense
the fair value of equity instruments, including stock options, to be issued in
exchange for goods or services. Adoption of this standard did not have a
significant impact on the Company s financial statements. Disclosures required
under this standard are included in Note 7 to the financial statements.   

    FIN
47:        In
March 2005, the FASB issued FIN No. 47,   Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligation, an
Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143  . FIN 47 clarifies
that the term  conditional asset retirement obligation  refers to a legal
obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or
method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be
within the control of the Company. Under FIN 47, the Company is required to
recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement
obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. FIN
47 also clarifies when the Company would have sufficient information to
reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. The
Company adopted FIN 47 as of September 30, 2006. Disclosures under this
standard are included in Note 5 to the financial statements. 

    FAS No. 154:      In
May 2005, FASB issued FAS No. 154,   Accounting
for Changes and Error Corrections .  This standard replaces APB
Opinion No. 20 and FAS No. 3. The Company will be required to adopt
this standard October 1, 2006. FAS No 154 changes the requirements for the
accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. FAS No. 154,
requires retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements of
changes in accounting principle. 

    FAS No. 155:      In
February 2006, FASB issued FAS No 155,   Accounting
for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133
and 140.   This standard is effective for all financial instruments
acquired after the beginning of an entity s first fiscal year beginning after September 15,
2006. The Company does not expect this standard to have a significant impact on
its financial statements. 

40     

FAS No. 157:        In September 2006, FASB issued
FAS No. 157,   Fair Value Measurements  . This
standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value,
and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This standard is
effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007. The Company has not determined the impact this standard will have on its
financial statements.   

    FAS No. 158:      In
September 2006, FASB issued FAS No. 158,   Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  
This standard requires a sponsor of defined benefit retirement plans to: (a) Recognize
the funded status of a benefit plan in its balance sheet; (b) Recognize as
a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and
prior service costs of credits that arise during the period but are not
recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost; (c) Measure the
defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the date of the employer s
fiscal year end; and (d) Disclose in the notes to financial statements
additional information about certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for
the next fiscal year that arise from the delayed recognition of the gains or
losses, prior service costs or credits, and transition asset or obligation. The
Company will be required to initially recognize the funded status of its
defined benefit plans and to provide the required disclosures as of the end of its
fiscal year ending September 30, 2007. The Company has not yet determined
the impact of this standard on its financial statements. 

   FIN     48:     In
June 2006, FASB issued FIN 48,   Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109    . This Interpretation clarifies the accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements
in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  This Interpretation prescribes
a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in
a tax return. This Interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods,
disclosure, and transition. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company has not determined the
impact of this interpretation on its financial statements. 

   SAB     108:     In
August 2006, the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission issued
Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 108. SAB 108 provides that registrants should
use both a balance sheet approach and an income statement approach when
quantifying and evaluating the materiality of a misstatement. SAB 108 is
effective for annual financial statements covering the first fiscal year ending
after November 15, 2006. Early adoption of SAB 108 in 2006 did not have a
significant impact on the Company s financial statements. 

   Note 3 Earnings Per
Share     

  The
following table sets forth the calculation of earnings per share:  

The only dilutive
securities are the stock options described in Note 7.  

41  

Note 4 Utility
Plant     

  Utility
plant at September 30, 2006 and 2005 consists of the following components:  

Note 5 Asset
Retirement Obligations     

  The Company follows FAS No. 143,  Accounting for
Asset Retirement Obligations  which requires the recording of the fair market
value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which
it is incurred. When the liability is initially recorded, the associated costs
of the asset retirement obligation are capitalized as part of the carrying
amount of the related long-lived asset. The liability is accreted to its
present value each period and the related capitalized costs are depreciated
over the useful life of the related asset. Upon retirement of the asset, the
Company either settles the retirement obligation for its recorded amount or
incurs a gain or loss. As asset retirement costs are recovered through rates
charged to customers, the Company records regulatory assets and liabilities for
the difference between asset retirement costs currently recovered in rates and
asset retirement obligations recorded under SFAS 143. The regulatory assets do
not earn a return. The adoption of SFAS No. 143 on October 1, 2002
did not have a material effect on the Company s financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.  

  As described in Note 2, the Company adopted FIN 47 as
of September 30, 2006, which has resulted in the recording of additional
asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. Specifically, the Company
has recorded liabilities for future asset retirement obligations to remove
certain pipe and storage tanks. With the adoption of FIN 47, the Company
recorded an asset retirement obligation of $389,000 ,  a regulatory asset of $352,000 ,  capitalized asset retirement costs of $45,000, and related
accumulated depreciation of $8,000. Due to an inability to estimate a range of
settlement dates, the Company cannot estimate a liability for removal and
disposal of certain transmission and distribution assets, as well as abatement
of asbestos for certain buildings.  

  The
following table documents the changes in the Company s asset retirement
obligation during the year ended September 30, 2006 (dollars in
thousands):  

Asset retirement
  obligation at beginning of year  

$  

Asset retirement
  obligation recognized during the year  

389  

Asset retirement
  obligation at end of year  

$  

389  

The
pro forma asset retirement obligation liability balances as if FIN 47 had been
adopted on October 1, 2004 (rather than September 30, 2006) are as
follows (dollars in thousands):  

42     

Note 6 Common Stock     

  At September 30,
2006, shares of common stock are reserved for issuance as follows:  

The price of shares issued
in connection with the above plans is determined by the market price of shares
on the day of, or immediately preceding the issuance date.  

   Note 7 Share-Based
Payment     

  As of September 30,
2006, the company has three share-based compensation plans which are described
below. Compensation cost recorded for those plans was $400,000, $259,000 and
$51,000 for 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. None of this cost was
capitalized as part of inventory or fixed assets. Total income tax benefit
recognized in the income statement for share-based compensation arrangements
was $154,000, $98,000, and $18,000 for 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.  

   1998 Stock
Incentive Plan     

  Under
the Company s 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan), officers and other key
management employees may be granted options to purchase stock or other
equity-based incentives. The grants vest   1     3  per year
over three years. Options granted in 2001 that were not exercised expired in
2006. Options granted in 2002 fully vested in 2005 and expire ten years from
the grant date. The intrinsic value method was used to account for these
options and no compensation expense was recognized. No options were granted in
2004, 2005, or 2006. A summary of option activity under the Plan as of September 30,
2006, and changes during the year is presented below: 

The
remaining average weighted life of options outstanding at September 30,
2006 is 5.5 years.  

43     

Restricted Stock
Grants     

  The Company s employment
contracts entered in 2005 with its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and its former
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) contain grants of restricted stock. Under the CEO
grant, 5,000 shares were restricted until the CEO completed one year of
employment, and another 5,000 shares are restricted until he completes two
years of employment. Under the CFO grant, 5,000 shares were restricted until he
completed one year of employment. During this period, each executive is
restricted from selling his shares. The value of the shares granted is based on
the market value as of the grant date. During 2006 and 2005, the Company
recognized $175,000 and $197,000 as compensation expense under this plan. As of
September 30, 2006, $25,000 remains to be recognized as expense over the
first two quarters of fiscal 2007.  

   2000 Director Stock
Award Plan     

  Under the Company s 2000
Director Stock Award Plan, each non-employee director is awarded 1,000 shares
of the Company s common stock annually following shareholder approval at the February 2006
annual meeting. Prior to 2006, the annual awards were 500 shares to each
non-employee director. The Company recognized $225,000, $62,000, and $51,000 as
expense under this plan in 2006, 2005, and 2004 respectively.  

   Note 8 Short-Term
Debt     

  The
Company s short-term borrowing needs are met with a three-year, $60,000,000
revolving credit agreement with one of its banks.  This agreement has a variable commitment fee and a term that expires in
October 2007.  The Company also has a $10,000,000 uncommitted line
of credit. The following table sets forth information on the two credit lines:  

Various debt and credit
agreements restrict the Company and its subsidiaries as to indebtedness,
payment of cash dividends on common stock, and other matters. As of September 30,
2006, the Company is in compliance with all restrictive covenants of its debt
agreements.  

44     

Note 9 Long-Term
Debt     

  Long-term
debt and current maturities of long-term debt at September 30, 2006 and
2005 consist of the following:  

None of the long-term debt includes sinking fund
requirements.  

  The 5.21% Notes due September 2020 are redeemable
at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at a redemption price
determined under  make-whole  provisions described in the prospectus
supplement.  

  The 7.50% Notes due November 2031 are redeemable
at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, on or after November 15,
2006. The 7.50% Notes due November 2031 are subject to redemption at the
option of the representative of a deceased beneficial owner. The maximum annual
required redemption per deceased beneficial owner is $25,000, principal amount,
and $1,200,000 for all deceased beneficial owners of the Notes.  

  The 5.25% Insured Quarterly Notes due February 2035
are redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, on or after February 1,
2010. The 5.25% Insured Quarterly Notes due February 2035 are subject to
redemption at the option of the representative of a deceased beneficial owner. The
maximum required redemption per deceased beneficial owner is $25,000, principal
amount, and $600,000 for all deceased beneficial owners of the Notes.  

  Annual obligations for redemption of long-term debt
and current maturities are as follows: $8,000,000 in fiscal year 2007, none in
fiscal years 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, and $165,123,000 thereafter.  

  There are $89 million,
including $8 million current maturities, Medium-Term Notes (MTN s) outstanding
as of September 30, 2006. The 5.21% Notes due September 2020, the
7.50% Notes due November 2031, and the 5.25% Insured Quarterly Notes due February 2035
were issued under a 2001 shelf registration providing ability to issue up
to $150 million long-term debt and equity securities. As of September 30,
2006, that registration statement has $65 million available for issuance.  

45     

Note 10 Income
Taxes     

  The
provision for income tax expense consists of the following:  

A deferred income tax charge associated with accruals
of minimum pension liability is included in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
for each year ended September 30 as follows: $1,327,000 in 2006, $56,000
in 2005, and $448,000 in 2004. Also included in 2006 was a deferred income tax
benefit of $1,295,000, related to unrealized gains / losses on energy commodity
derivatives.  

  A
reconciliation between income taxes calculated at the statutory federal tax
rate and income taxes reflected in the financial statements is as follows:  

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. There
is no deferred tax provision for temporary differences related to depreciation
of pre-1981 assets because, with respect to those assets, there is no
regulatory recognition of deferred tax accounting.  

  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated
under FAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes . FAS No. 109
requires recording deferred tax balances, at the currently-enacted tax rate,
for all temporary differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities,
including temporary differences for which no deferred taxes had been previously
provided because of use of flow-through tax accounting for rate-making purposes.
Because of prior and expected future rate-making treatment of temporary
differences for which flow-through accounting has been utilized, a regulatory
liability for income taxes payable through future rates related to those
temporary differences has been established. At September 30, 2006, the
balance of the net regulatory liability is $7,632,000.  

46  

The
tax effects of significant items comprising the Company s deferred income tax
accounts at September 30, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:  

Note 11 Retirement
Plans     

  The Company has a noncontributory defined benefit
pension plan that covers substantially all employees over 21 years of age with
one year of service. Under a plan amendment effective October 1, 2003,
non-bargaining-unit employees no longer accrue benefits under the plan. Benefits
accrued as of that point were frozen for those employees. Employees covered by
a bargaining agreement accrue benefits based on a formula that includes
credited years of service and the employee s annual compensation. Effective January 1,
2007 for field operations bargaining unit employees hired before that date,
pension benefits will accrue a benefit of $107 per month for each full year of
service. They will no longer accrue benefits based on compensation.  

  The Company has also provided executive officers with
supplemental retirement, death, and disability benefits. This plan was also
frozen September 30, 2003 for further accruals and for new participants. Under
the plan, vesting occurred on a stepped basis with full vesting at age 55 and
completing either five years of participation under the plan or seventeen years
of employment with the Company, upon death, or upon a change in control. The
plan supplemented the benefit received through Social Security and the defined
benefit pension plan so that the total retirement benefits would be equal to
70% of the executive s highest salary during any of the five years preceding
retirement. The plan also provides a death benefit equivalent to ten years of
vested benefits. The employment contract for the Chief Executive Officer
provides for a supplemental defined-contribution retirement plan that is
designed to provide for a retirement income target of 55% of final pay after
taking into consideration benefits earned from other retirement plans and
Social Security.  

47     

The Company has an Employee Savings Plan and
Retirement Trust (401(k) plan). All employees 21 years of age or
older with one full year of service are eligible to enroll in the plan. Under
the terms of the plan, the Company matches contributions based on a percentage
of each employee s contribution up to 6% of the employee s compensation, as
defined. Effective July 1, 2006, the Company s matching contribution
percentage was increased from 50% to 75% with respect to non-bargaining-unit
employees. Effective January 1, 2007, the matching contribution for field
operations bargaining unit employees hired before that date will be reduced to
25% from 75%. Field operations bargaining unit employees hired after January 1,
2007 will receive a matching contribution of 50%. The Company recognized costs
for matching contributions of $747,000, $621,000, and $728,000, for 2006, 2005,
and 2004, respectively.  

  In addition to the existing match of
non-bargaining-unit and customer service representative employee contributions,
the Company contributes 4% of eligible salaries, and a 1% to 4% transition
contribution, to employee retirement accounts. For field operations bargaining
unit employees hired after January 1, 2007, the Company will contribute 4%
of eligible pay. The Company recognized $926,000, $956,000 and $973,000 for
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, under this plan. Additionally, there are
annually determined  profit-sharing  contributions based on the Company
achieving established targets. Under this profit-sharing plan, the Company
recognized $890,000 for 2006, and none for 2005 or 2004. The Company s health
care plan provides Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions (PBOP),
consisting of medical and prescription drug benefits, to its retired employees
hired prior to June 1, 1992, and their eligible dependents. Changes to
this plan, announced in 2003, provide for the addition of participant
contributions that began January 1, 2004. Beginning in 2006, with respect
to plan participants over age 65, the Company provides these benefits through
insurance coverage.  

  The following tables set
forth the pension and health care plan disclosures. The amounts shown in the
tables under Pension Benefits represent the aggregate amounts of the employee
pension and the executive supplemental retirement defined benefit plans. Amounts
shown under Other Benefits represent the retiree medical plan. The measurement
date of plan assets and obligations is as of September 30 for each year
presented:  

   Components of net periodic benefit cost     

48     

For
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, the Company expects to
contribute approximately $3,500,000 to the employee pension plan and none to
the supplemental executive retirement plan. The 2007 funding levels for the
retiree medical plan have not been determined.  

   Expected
Future Benefit Payments     

49     

Assumed Health Care Cost Trend Rates      

A
one-percent change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the
following effects as of September 30, 2006:  

The following information
regarding asset allocation, development of expected rate of return on plan
assets, and investment strategy is presented separately for each of the three
plans.  

   Employee Pension
Plan     

   Investment Policy
Summary     

  The fundamental investment objective of the Employee
Pension Plan (the Plan) is to provide a rate of return sufficient to fund the
retirement benefits under the Plan at a reasonable cost to the plan sponsor,
Cascade Natural Gas Corporation, and commensurate with an appropriate amount of
risk pursuant to the Plan obligations. At a minimum, the rate of return should
equal or exceed the discount rate assumed by the Plan s actuaries in projecting
the funding cost of the Plan under applicable ERISA standards. To do so, the
Company s Pension Committee (the Committee) may appoint one or more investment
managers to invest all or portions of the assets of the Plan (collectively
referred to as the  Fund ) in accordance with specific investment guidelines,
objectives, standards, and benchmarks.  

  Because the Committee expects the Fund s investment
income, when combined with anticipated contributions by the Company, to exceed
the sum of benefit payments and expenses over the next several years, the
Committee intends that the Fund be managed to achieve long-term returns, with
only a small percentage of the Fund invested in cash.  

50     

The
Fund is divided into the following segments based on the guidelines below:  

Asset Allocation     

  The
asset allocation at September 30, 2006, and 2005, by major asset category
is as follows:  

Discount Rate     

  The discount rate for measurement of the benefit
obligation was developed using the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve, updated
for yields through September 30, 2006.  

  The discount rate for the
annual benefit cost was based on the Moody s Aa Corporate Bond Index measured
as of September 30, 2005.  

   Expected Long-term
Rate of Return on Plan Assets     

  The expected long-term
rate of return on assets assumption is based on historical experience and
consultation with the Company s actuarial consultants. Factors considered
include asset allocation and expected returns attributable to each category of
assets over a 20-year time horizon.  

   Additional Year-end
Information (for plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan
assets)     

  The
amounts listed in the following table apply only to the employee retirement
plan. This plan has an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets,
resulting in the amounts shown in the table:  

51     

Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan (SERP)     

   Investment Policy
Summary     

  SERP
assets are in insurance policies and managed investments. The value of
insurance policies at September 30, 2006 was $5,995,000, and at September 30,
2005 was $5,435,000. The managed assets are divided into the following segments
with the following weightings:  

Asset Allocation     

  The
allocation of assets at September 30, 2006, and 2005, by major asset
category including life insurance policies, is as follows:  

Discount Rate     

  The discount rate for measurement of the benefit
obligation was developed using the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve, updated
for yields through September 30, 2006.  

  The discount rate for the
annual benefit cost was based on the Moody s Aa Corporate Bond Index measured
as of September 30, 2005.  

   Expected Long-term
Rate of Return on Plan Assets     

  The expected long-term
rate of return on assets assumption is based on historic experience with the
investment manager and consultation with the Company s actuarial consultants. Factors
considered include asset allocation and expected returns attributable to each
category of assets over a 20-year time horizon.  

   Retiree Medical
Plans     

   Investment Policy
Summary     

  The fundamental investment objective of the Trusts
(voluntary employee benefit associations within the meaning of Section 501(c)(9) of
the Internal Revenue Code) is to provide a rate of return sufficient to fund
medical benefits under the Company s medical plan at a reasonable cost to the
plan sponsor, Cascade Natural Gas Corporation, and commensurate with an
appropriate amount of risk pursuant to the Trusts obligations. The Company has
appointed a qualified actuary to determine the benefit obligation under the
medical plan (including post-retirement benefits) and the necessary funding to
meet those obligations. In performing this analysis, the actuary has used
appropriate actuarial methods for medical benefits and complies with existing
financial accounting standards.  

52     

The Fund
is divided into the following segments with the following weightings:  

Asset Allocation     

  The
asset allocation at September 30, 2006, and 2005, by major asset category,
is as follows:  

Discount Rate     

  The discount rate for measurement of the benefit
obligation was developed using the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve, updated
for yields through September 30, 2006. In developing the rate, cash flows
were used to reflect plan amendments effective January 1, 2007.  

  The discount rate for the
annual benefit cost was based on the Moody s Aa Corporate Bond Index measured
as of September 30, 2005.  

   Expected Long-term
Rate of Return on Plan Assets     

  The expected long-term
rate of return on assets assumption is based on historical experience and consultation
with the Company s actuarial consultants. Factors considered include asset
allocation and expected returns attributable to each category of assets over a
20-year time horizon.  

   Note 12 Commitments
and Contingencies     

   Gas Service
Contracts     

  The Company has entered into various long-term
contracts for natural gas supply, transportation, storage, and peaking services.
These contracts are intended to provide adequate supplies of gas for service to
core customers and to meet obligations under long-term, non-core customer
agreements, and to provide that adequate capacity is available on interstate
pipelines for the delivery of these supplies. These contracts have maturities
ranging up to 25 years, and generally provide for monthly and annual fixed
demand charges, and minimum purchase obligations.  

53     

The
Company s minimum obligations under these contracts are set forth in the
following table. The amounts are based on hedged prices, as applicable, current
contract price terms and estimated commodity prices on un-hedged supplies,
which are subject to market fluctuations:  

Purchases
under these contracts for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 were as follows:  

Financial
Derivatives     

  To
mitigate market risk and provide assurance of stable prices for its customers,
the Company has entered into a number of hedging arrangements related to its
gas supply contracts. The hedging arrangements are primarily in the form of
financial swaps to fix the price of supplies. Under the terms of the swap
arrangements, the Company will either pay or receive settlement payments based
on the difference between a fixed strike price and the monthly index price
applicable to each contract. The total quantities subject to hedging
arrangements are 25,294,000 MMBTU s in 2007, 17,408,000 MMBTU s in 2008,
8,860,000 MMBTU s in 2009, and 592,000 MMBTU s in 2010. The mark-to-market
value of these hedges as of September 30, 2006 and 2005 are included in
the balance sheet as follows:  

Environmental
Matters     

  There are two claims against the Company for cleanup
of alleged environmental contamination related to manufactured gas plant sites
previously operated by companies that were subsequently merged into the
Company.  

54  

The first claim was received in 1995 and relates to a
site in Oregon. An investigation has shown that soil and groundwater
contamination exists at the site. There are parties in addition to the Company
that are potentially liable for cleanup of the contamination. Some of these
other parties have shared in the costs expended to date to investigate the
site, and it is expected that these and potentially other parties will share in
the cleanup costs. Several alternatives for remediation of the site have been identified,
with preliminary estimates for cleanup ranging from approximately $500,000 to
$11,000,000. It is not known at this time what share of the cleanup costs will
actually be borne by the Company. The Oregon Department of Environmental
Quality (DEQ) is currently reviewing a Focused Feasibility Study prepared for
the site and is expected to select a preferred alternative from that report. It
is not known when the decision will be made by DEQ.  

  The second claim was received in 1997 and relates to a
site in Washington. A preliminary investigation has determined that there is
evidence of contamination at the site, but there is also evidence that other
property owners may have contributed to the contamination. There is currently
not enough information available to estimate the potential liability associated
with this claim, but the Company and other parties may become involved in
future investigation or remediation of the site as increased interest has been
expressed concerning its potential for redevelopment.  In particular, the Company is aware that the
local city government has secured federal grants for further investigation of
the site. At this time, no formal investigation plan has been communicated to
the Company. 

  Management believes it has
adequate insurance to cover the costs of the above two claims. In the event the
insurance proceeds do not completely cover the costs, management intends to
seek recovery from its customers through increased rates. There is precedent
for such recovery through increased rates, as both the WUTC and the OPUC have
previously allowed regulated utilities to increase customer rates to cover
similar costs.  

   Litigation and
Other Contingencies     

  On July 31, 2006, a complaint was filed with the
WUTC by Cost Management Services, Inc., against the Company. The complaint
contends the Company s sales to customers under its gas management program are
not allowed. The complainant is in the gas management business and is a
competitor of the Company for this business with the same customers. The
complaint requests that the Company be directed to cease and desist from making
such sales. It further requests the WUTC determine whether the Company s
contracts with its gas management customers are void or voidable under
Washington statutes and to provide other relief or penalties as the WUTC may
consider appropriate under the circumstances. The Company believes that its gas
management business is in compliance with applicable laws.  

  The Parties to the Complaint Docket have filed a
Stipulation of Facts and have agreed to file simultaneous motions and briefs on
the same dates reserved for briefs in the Washington general rate case docket.
The WUTC has indicated that it will issue an order in the Complaint Docket  prior to, or at the same time as, the
final order in the general rate case docket. 

  Various lawsuits, claims,
and contingent liabilities may arise from time-to-time from the conduct of the
Company s business. No other claims now pending, in the opinion of management,
are expected to have a material effect on the Company s financial position,
results of operations, cash flows, or liquidity.  

   Note 13 Fair Value
of Financial Instruments   

  The
following estimated fair value amounts have been determined by the Company
using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies. However,
considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop the
estimates of fair value. Accordingly, these estimates are not necessarily
indicative of the amounts that the Company could realize in a current market
exchange. Thus, the use of different market assumptions or estimation
methodologies may have a material effect on   

55     

the estimated fair value amounts. The estimated fair
values have been determined by using interest rates that are currently available
to the Company for issuance of instruments with similar terms and remaining
maturities. The estimated fair value amounts, at September 30, 2006 and
2005, are set forth in the following table:  

Note 14 Interim Results of Operations (unaudited)   

Item 9.                            Changes
in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

  None.  

56     

Item 9A.                    Controls
and Procedures   

  (a)   Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

  The Company maintains
disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that it is able to
collect the information it is required to disclose in the reports it files with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, and to process, summarize and disclose
this information within the time period specified in the Securities and
Exchange Commission s rules. The Company s management, including the chief
executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated disclosure controls
and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
that evaluation, the Company concluded that, as of September 30, 2006 the
Company s disclosure controls and procedures are functioning effectively to
alert management on a timely basis to material information relating to the
Company required to be included in the Company s periodic filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  

  (b)   Changes in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting  

  No
change in the Company s internal controls over financial reporting occurred
during the fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.  

  (c)   Management s
Report on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting  

   Management s Report
on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting   

  Management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting for the Company. Internal control over financial reporting
is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) promulgated
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under
the supervision of, a company s principal executive and principal financial
officers and effected by the company s board of directors, management and other
personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. Internal control includes those policies and
procedures that:  

             pertain
to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; 

             provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the Company; and 

             provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements. 

  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of
the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2006. In making this assessment, the Company s management used the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations ( COSO ) of the Treadway
Commission s Internal Control-Integrated Framework.  

57     

Based on their assessment, management has concluded
that, as of September 30, 2006, the Company s internal control over
financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.  

  Our
management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 has been audited by
Deloitte and Touche, LLP, an independent, registered public accounting firm, as
stated in their report which is included herein.  

/s/ DAVID W. STEVENS 

David W. Stevens  

President
  and Chief Executive Officer   

/s/ JAMES E. HAUG  

James E. Haug  

Chief
  Accounting Officer   

58  

(d)   Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm s Report on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting  

   REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Cascade Natural Gas Corporation 
Seattle, Washington  

  We have audited management s assessment, included in
the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Controls Over Financial
Reporting, that Cascade Natural Gas Corporation and subsidiaries (the
 Company ) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.  

  We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinions.  

  A company s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar
functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

  Because of the inherent limitations of internal
control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error
or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections
of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial
reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  In our opinion, management s assessment that the
Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria
established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2006, based on the criteria   

59     

established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  

  We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule as of and for the year ended September 30, 2006, of the Company
and our report dated December 6, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion on
those financial statements and financial statement schedule.  

60  

Item 9B.                   Other
Information   

  None  

   PART III     

   Item 10.                     Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

  The Board of Directors and
their age, principal occupation, and business experience are listed below.  

  SCOTT M. BOGGS, Director since 2004 
Former Vice President, Corporate Controller 
Microsoft Corporation  

  Mr. Boggs, 51, was
Vice President, Corporate Controller at Microsoft Corporation from December 1997
to May 2003. From 1993 to 1997, Mr. Boggs held other management
positions in accounting at Microsoft Corporation. Mr. Boggs serves as Vice
Chairman and Treasurer of the Financial Executives Research Foundation, an
affiliate of Financial Executives International. Also, Mr. Boggs is a
member of the King County Strategic Technology Advisory Council and is an adjunct
professor at Seattle University where he teaches financial and management
accounting at the Albers School of Business.  

  PIRKKO H. BORLAND, Director since 2003 
 Retired   

  Ms. Borland, 62,
retired from US WEST Communications, Inc. in 1995 as Executive Director Financial
Accounting. Her previous positions in US WEST Communications, and its
predecessor company Pacific Northwest Bell, include Director of Internal
Auditing and Director of Regulatory Matters. Her expertise is in accounting and
finance, especially financial reporting and regulatory accounting. She serves
on the board of the Nordic Heritage Museum and the Advisory Board of the
Scandinavian Department at the University of Washington. Ms. Borland is a
licensed CPA in the State of Washington.  

  CARL BURNHAM, JR., Director since 1990 
Attorney at Law 
Yturri Rose LLP  

  Mr. Burnham, 67, is a
senior partner of Yturri Rose LLP, a regional law firm with its principal
office in Ontario, Oregon. Yturri Rose LLP represents public and private
corporations, including utilities. Prior to Mr. Burnham becoming a member
of the Board, his firm was Oregon Counsel for Cascade Natural Gas Corporation.
Mr. Burnham has been a partner of Yturri Rose LLP since 1967.  

  THOMAS E. CRONIN, Director since 1996 
Retired  

  Mr. Cronin, 66, retired in 2005 from Whitman
College in Walla Walla, Washington where he served as President since 1993. A
former White House Fellow, Mr. Cronin has been a scholar-in-residence at
the Brookings Institution in Washington D.C., and the Hoover Institution at
Stanford University. He has been President of CRC, Inc., a research and
consulting company since 1981, specializing in public policy and leadership
issues. He is an award-winning scholar and author or co-author of several
books on American government and public policy. He has been in recent years a
director of the Blue Mountain Land Trust, the Downtown Walla Walla
Foundation, and the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities.  

61     

DAVID A. EDERER, Director since 1991 
Chairman of the Board 
Ederer Investment Company  

  Mr. Ederer, 63, is
Chairman of the Board of Ederer Investment Company in Seattle, Washington, a
private investment company overseeing various personal holdings located in
Washington, Oregon, and Utah. Since 1974, Mr. Ederer has been involved in
the acquisition and ownership of companies which have included companies in the
manufacturing, brokering, distribution, service, and retail industries. In
addition to serving on the Board of Cascade Natural Gas Corporation, he
currently serves on the boards of HomeStreet Bank, Survival, Inc.,
Prostate Cancer Foundation (formerly known as CapCURE), Colvos Industries, Jody
Coyote, Inc., and PONCHO.  

  LARRY L. PINNT, Chairman since 2003 and Director since
1995 
Retired  

  Mr. Pinnt, 72, was
Chief Financial Officer of US WEST Communications, Inc., and one of its
predecessor companies, Pacific Northwest Bell, from 1979 until he retired in September 1989.
His responsibilities included all aspects of corporate financial management,
including shareholder matters. Mr. Pinnt has served on the boards of a
number of public and private companies, including Seattle Trust and Savings
Bank and later Key Bank of Washington. He also served as Chairman on the boards
of Blue Cross of Washington and Alaska, and University of Washington
Medicine.  

  BROOKS G. RAGEN, Director since 1984 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
 Manzanita Capital, Inc., Parent of
McAdams, Wright, Ragen, Inc.   

  Mr. Ragen, 73, is
President and CEO of Manzanita Capital, Inc., a financial services firm. He
was a director of Ragen MacKenzie Incorporated, an investment banking firm,
from 1986 to 1998. From 1988 until 1996, he served as Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of Ragen MacKenzie Incorporated. Mr. Ragen s entire
business career has been involved in investments and investment banking. After
working as a research analyst in New York for several years, he served as the
Pacific Northwest branch manager for two New York-based investment firms and
later worked as an investment banker providing a wide range of corporate
finance services to Pacific Northwest-based corporations. Mr. Ragen
has started and managed two regional investment banking firms and for many
years has provided investment advice to a broad group of individuals and
institutions.  

  DAVID W. STEVENS, Director since April 2005 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
Cascade Natural Gas Corporation  

  Mr. Stevens, 47, was elected as President and CEO
and to the Board of Directors of Cascade Natural Gas Corporation effective April 1,
2005. From July 2003 to December 2004, Mr. Stevens was President
and COO for Panhandle Energy, a Southern Union Company subsidiary. From September 1997
to January 2003, he was President of the Southern Union Gas Company. Prior
to that, Mr. Stevens served in other executive capacities within the
Southern Union Company, including Senior Vice President Sales and Operations,
Regional Vice President, Group Vice President and Vice President Operations. Mr. Stevens
joined the Southern Union Company in 1984. He has served on the board of directors
for the Southern Gas Association and the Intrastate Natural Gas Association of
America, and was a member of the Presidents  Council of the American Gas
Association.  

62     

DOUGLAS G. THOMAS, Director since 2002 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
Bellingham Cold Storage Company  

  Mr. Thomas, 43, is
President and CEO and serves on the board of directors of Bellingham Cold
Storage, a public cold storage and food processing firm located in Bellingham,
Washington. Mr. Thomas became President and CEO of Bellingham Cold Storage
in January 1999, and from January 1996 to January 1999, he was
Vice President   Chief Operating Officer. Bellingham Cold Storage is a
significant consumer of energy and Mr. Thomas has extensive experience
with both the electrical and gas utility side of its business through the
development and implementation of on-site natural gas electric generation systems.  

   The Audit Committee     

  The Audit Committee is
responsible for the appointment, retention, compensation and oversight of the
Company s independent auditors. Audit Committee members are Pirkko H. Borland Chair,
Scott M. Boggs, David A. Ederer, and Larry L. Pinnt. The Board has
reviewed the qualifications of Audit Committee members and determined that
Larry L. Pinnt, Scott M. Boggs and Pirkko H. Borland are financial experts as
defined in rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also, the
Board has considered the qualifications of members of the Audit Committee and
determined that all members of the Audit Committee are independent and
financially literate under applicable rules of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. The Board has
adopted a written charter for the Audit Committee which is available on the
Company s website at  www.cngc.com .  

   Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance     

  Under Section 16(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, holders of more than 10 percent of
the Common Stock and directors and certain officers of the Company are required
to file reports of beneficial ownership of Common Stock and changes in such
ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Section 16(a) Statements ).
The Company is required to identify those persons who, to the Company s
knowledge, were required to file Section 16(a) Statements and did not
do so on a timely basis. Based solely on a review of copies of Section 16(a) Statements
furnished to the Company during and regarding its most recent fiscal year and
on written representations from reporting persons, the Company believes that
each person who at any time during the most recent fiscal year was a reporting
person filed all required Section 16(a) Statements on a timely basis
except for the following corrections that were made after an extensive review
and reconciliation process in fiscal 2006: (1) amended Form 4 s were
filed for Doug Thomas, Brooks Ragen (two filings), Larry Pinnt and Scott Boggs
to correct previous filings due to minor errors, including not adjusting
reported amounts for reinvested dividends and math errors; (2) amended Form 4 s
were filed for Rick Davis and David Stevens to include a stock price; (3) amended
Form 3 s were filed for Julie Marshall and Michael Gardner to reflect
stock grants when they became executive officers; and (4) amended Form 4 s
were filed for Jim Haug, Larry Rosok (two filings), Jon Stoltz, Julie
Marshall and Michael Gardner (two filings) to accurately reflect stock option
exercises.  

   Code of Ethics     

  The Company has adopted
codes of ethics for directors, officers (including the principal executive
officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer), and
employees. These codes of ethics are available on the Registrant s website at www.cngc.com.
Any changes to or waivers from the codes of ethics will be posted to the
Registrant s website as well.  

63     

Executive Officers
of the Registrant     

  The
executive officers of the Company, as of November 30, 2006, are as
follows:  

None of the above officers
is related by blood, marriage or adoption to any other of the above-named officers.
With the exception of David W. Stevens, each of the other above-named officers
has been employed by the Company in a management capacity for at least the
past five years. None of the above officers holds directorships in other public
corporations. All officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  

  MICHAEL J. GARDNER 
Vice President Operations  

  Mr. Gardner was
elected to Vice President Operations August 1, 2005. Prior to that he was
Executive Director District Operations since September 2003. Prior to that
he was Senior Director Operations Support since May 2002. Prior to that he
was Director, District Processes since April 2000. Prior to that he held various
positions in Operations, Safety and Training, and Engineering since 1991.  

  JAMES E. HAUG 
Chief Accounting Officer  

  Mr. Haug was elected
to Chief Accounting Officer October 27, 2006. He was Controller since December 2002.
Prior to that he was Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since January 1997.
His title changed to Controller in May 2002. Prior to that he was
elected Treasurer and Chief Accounting Officer in 1988. Previously, he was
Treasurer of the Corporation since December 1, 1981. Prior to that time he
served as Controller since 1979, and previous to that as Manager, General
Accounting.  

  JULIE A. MARSHALL 
Vice President Customer Service  

  Ms. Marshall was
elected to Vice President Customer Service August 1, 2005. Prior to that
she was Director, Customer Service since June 1, 2000. Prior to that she
was Director, Customer Account Services since February 1998. Prior to that
she was in various positions in Customer Accounting and Auditing since 1974.  

64  

LARRY C. ROSOK 
Vice President Human Resources   Corporate Secretary  

  Mr. Rosok was elected
to Vice President Human Resources   Corporate Secretary
November 1, 1997. Prior to that he was Personnel Director since
January 1, 1994 and was elected Corporate Secretary in July 1995.
Prior to that time he was Assistant Personnel Director since January 1991.
Prior to that he was in various positions in Customer Accounting and Auditing
since 1979.  

  JON T. STOLTZ 
Senior Vice President Regulatory   Gas Supply  

  Mr. Stoltz was
appointed Senior Vice President Regulatory   Gas Supply in
December 2002. Prior to that he was Senior Vice President,
Planning/Regulatory   Consumer Affairs since November, 1998, Senior
Vice President Planning   Rates since April 1991, Senior Vice
President Gas Supply   Rates since April 1990, Vice President Gas
Supply, Rates   Special Studies since August 1981, Director of
Gas Supply, Rates   Special Studies since 1980, and Director of Rates
since 1977.  

   Item 11.                     Executive
Compensation   

   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     

   Summary Compensation Table.      The following table shows compensation paid to the
current Chief Executive Officer, the former Chief Executive Officer, and each
of the other four most highly compensated executive officers of the Company for
the years indicated.  

(1)             The amount in the bonus
column includes Mr. Stevens  payout from the Cascade Incentive Plan and an
amount from the 401(k) profit sharing plan, both of which paid out at the
maximum due to the strong performance of the Company. Payouts in the 401(k) profit
sharing plan, which exceed the maximum eligible deferral to the 401(k) plan
are paid as a cash bonus under the short-term incentive plan. Of Mr. Stevens 
bonus, $410,000 was a payout from the Cascade Incentive Plan and $32,800 will
be a cash bonus per the 401(k) profit sharing plan to be paid in early
calendar 2007. 

65     

Mr. Stevens 
employment with the Company commenced on April 1, 2005. 2005 Compensation
for Mr. Stevens reflects the period from April 1, 2005 through September 30,
2005. Mr. Stevens received an initial stock grant of 15,000 shares of
Common Stock on the effective date of his employment. Of the initial stock
grant, 5,000 shares are restricted and subject to forfeiture if Mr. Stevens
leaves the Company before the shares vest. These 5,000 shares are reflected in
the  Restricted Stock Awards  column and are valued on the basis of the Common
Stock price on the date of grant. These remaining 5,000 shares will vest as of April 1,
2007. Of the initial stock grant, 5,000 shares were fully vested at the time of
grant and are reflected in the  All Other Compensation  column for 2005 and are
valued on the basis of the Common Stock price on the date of grant. Another
5,000 shares of the initial stock grant vested on April 1, 2006 and are
reflected in the  All Other Compensation  for 2006 and are valued on the basis
of the Common stock price on the date of the grant. Other compensation
reflected in the  All Other Compensation  column are $9,600 for payment of
dividends on the restricted portion of his initial stock grant, a one-time
performance award of $6,045 and $29,250 for a miscellaneous allowance. All
compensation is per his employment contract as approved by the Board of
Directors prior to his employment. A more detailed description of Mr. Stevens 
employment agreement is provided below in the section entitled  Employment
Agreements.   

  (2)             Mr. Davis 
employment with the Company began on June 16, 2005. 2005 Compensation for Mr. Davis
reflects the period from June 16, 2005 through September 30, 2005.
Mr. Davis received an initial stock grant of 5,000 shares of Common Stock
on the effective date of his employment, all of which shares were restricted
and subject to forfeiture if Mr. Davis left the Company before the shares
vest. These 5,000 shares vested as of June 16, 2006 and are reflected in
the  All Other Compensation  column for 2006. This stock grant is valued on the
basis of the Common Stock price on the date of the grant. Other payments
reflected in the  All Other Compensation  column are: $4,800 for a
miscellaneous allowance and $5,446.80 for Company contributions to the 401(k) plan.
Mr. Davis  employment with the Company ended on November 26, 2006,
prior to payouts under the Cascade Incentive Plan and 401(k) Profit
Sharing Plan, so he was ineligible for payouts under those plans. A more
detailed description of Mr. Davis  employment agreement is provided below
in the section entitled  Employment Agreements.  Upon his departure, Mr. Davis
executed a release, consistent with the process set forth in his employment
agreement, pursuant to which Mr. Davis will receive a separation payment
and, assuming compliance with his non-compete covenants, non-compete payments.
The total amount of all payments will ultimately aggregate to $715,000 assuming
full compliance. 

  (3)             The amount in the bonus
column for Jon T. Stoltz includes $86,938 as a payout from the Cascade
Incentive Plan, $1,500 as a one-time performance bonus, $13,991 as a cash bonus
per the 401(k) profit sharing plan and $4,702 as a cash bonus in lieu of
exercising stock options per the 1998 Stock Incentive Plan. 

  (4)             The amount in the bonus
column for Larry C. Rosok includes $75,396 as a payout from the Cascade
Incentive Plan, $4,918 as a cash bonus per the 401(k) profit sharing plan,
and a $3,000 one-time performance award. 

  (5)             The amount in the bonus
column for Michael J. Gardner includes $70,784 as a payout for the Cascade
Incentive Plan, $751 as a cash bonus per the 401(k) profit sharing plan, a
$5,000 one-time performance award and $1,045 as a cash bonus in lieu of
exercising stock options per the 1998 Stock Incentive Plan. Mr. Gardner
was promoted to Vice President Operations effective August 1, 2005, and
was designated as an executive officer of the Company by the Board on December 8,
2005. Mr. Gardner began employment with the Company in 1991. Amounts in
the table reflect amounts paid after and before his election to Vice President. 

  (6)             For 2006, the Company
established the Cascade Incentive Plan which provides for cash payments to
officers and other salaried employees if the Company is cash-flow neutral as
defined in the plan, and if  

66     

other operational and
earnings targets are achieved. Under the plan, the CEO could earn an additional
50% of base salary if his targets were reached and up to 100% of base salary if
the maximum achievement was reached. For other officers, target achievement
levels would result in awards of 20% to 49% of base pay with a maximum range
for officers from 40% to 98% of base pay. In addition, the Company has a 401(k) profit
sharing plan which provides for payouts, for salaried employees, from 0 to 8%
of eligible income. In fiscal 2006, the Company achieved maximum targets,
resulting in maximum payouts under each plan.  

  Prior to 2006, earnings levels required for payments
under the short-term incentive plans were not achieved, so there were no
payments under these plans.  

  Bonuses in 2005 for
Messrs. Stoltz and Rosok represent spot bonuses for successful project
achievement.  

  (7)             Amounts
in this column, other than as described above for Messrs. Stevens and
Davis, represent the Company s contribution to the 401(k) Plan. In fiscal
2004, accruals under the Company s Retirement Plan and the Executive
Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (each as described below) were frozen. No
further benefits will accrue in these plans. To partially offset this reduction
in benefits, a non-elective contribution of 4% of eligible pay, a transition
contribution of 1% to 4% and a profit sharing plan was established for the
salaried employees  401(k) Plan. 

   Long-Term Incentive
Plan Awards in 2006     

  The
following table provides information regarding restricted stock grants in the
last fiscal year under the Company s Long-Term Incentive Plan. There were no
other restricted stock or stock option grants in fiscal 2006.  

(1)             On January 11,
2006, the Company entered into Long-Term Incentive Award Agreements with David W.
Stevens and Rick Davis, in which Messrs. Stevens and Davis may receive up
to 9,100 and 5,650 shares respectively, after the three year period ending June 30,
2008, depending on the Company s performance in terms of return on equity
compared to a peer group during the period. Target performance is based on
being ranked fifth in terms of return on equity compared to a peer group of
nine companies. 

  (2)             On September 14,
2006, the Company entered into Long-Term Incentive Award Agreements with David
W. Stevens and Rick Davis, in which Messrs. Stevens and Davis may receive
up to 6,820 and 4,075 shares respectively, after the three year period ending June 30,
2009, depending on the Company s performance in terms of return on equity
compared to a peer group during the period. Target performance is based on
being ranked fourth in terms of return on equity compared to a peer group of
nine companies. 

  (3)             In
the event of a change in control of the Company during the period, as defined
in the agreement, Mr. Stevens will be entitled to receive the cash value
of the total number of shares that may be awarded. Mr. Davis departed the
Company as of November 26, 2006; therefore, he is no longer eligible for a
payout under the Long-Term Incentive Plan. 

67     

Aggregated Option Exercises In Last Fiscal Year And
Fiscal Year-End Option Values     

(1)             Amounts
were calculated based on the difference between the closing sale price of the
Common Stock reported on the New York Stock Exchange on September 30, 2006,
which was $26.09, and the aggregate exercise price of the unexercised options. 

   RETIREMENT PLANS     

  The Company has a noncontributory defined benefit
retirement plan for its employees ( Retirement Plan ). Effective October 1,
2003, the plan was amended so that no new salaried participants will be added
to the plan and no additional benefits will accrue for existing participants
who are salaried employees. To be eligible for participation in the plan, an
employee must have completed one year of service, per plan definition, as of October 1,
2003, and have been at least 21 years of age at that time. Each
participant s benefits are fully vested after 5 years of employment. The
level of benefits is determined by a formula, described below, related to years
of service and average monthly earnings over certain time periods. Covered
earnings include straight salary or hourly compensation, 75% of commissions
and, for hourly employees, 30% of overtime pay. Effective January 1, 2007,
no new field operations bargaining unit employees will be added to the plan and
for field operations bargaining unit employees hired before that date, pension
benefits will accrue a benefit of $107 per month for each full year of service
rather than the prior formula that was based on years of service and average
monthly earnings.  

  Covered compensation levels for executive officers are
limited to $200,000 for calendar year 2003 when benefit accruals were frozen
for salaried employees. Benefits are not subject to reduction for Social
Security or any other benefits. The net periodic pension cost for the plan is
computed on an actuarial basis and aggregated $2,158,000 for all participants
for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006.  

  The amount of the monthly past service benefit under
the Retirement Plan is equal to 1.5% of the participant s average monthly
earnings for the five-year period ended December 31, 1998, multiplied by
the participant s years of service before 1999. The benefit for each year of
service after 1998 is 2% of monthly compensation in lieu of the previous 1.5%.  

  The Company also has a
defined-contribution 401(k) plan for its employees ( 401(k) Plan ).
For salaried employees, the Company provides a match of $.50 per $1.00 invested
up to 6% of eligible pay. Effective July 1, 2006, the matching
contribution for salaried non-bargaining unit employees was increased to $.75
per $1.00 invested up to 6% of eligible pay. Also, salaried employees receive a
non-elective contribution of 4% of eligible pay. In addition, salaried
employees who were employed as of June 30, 2003 when the Retirement Plan
was amended receive a transition contribution to the 401(k) Plan of 1% to
4% depending on their age and length of service. Field operations bargaining
unit employees currently receive a match of $.75 per $1.00 invested up to 6% of
eligible pay. Effective January 1, 2007, the matching contribution
for field operations bargaining unit employees hired before that date, will be   

68     

reduced
to $.25 per $1.00 invested. Field operations bargaining unit employees hired
after January 1, 2007 will receive $.50 per $1.00 invested and a
non-elective contribution of 4% of eligible pay.  

   EXECUTIVE
SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT INCOME     

  Officers who became executive officers prior to September 30,
2003, including Messrs. Stoltz and Rosok listed in the summary
compensation table above, are participants in an executive supplemental
retirement income plan ( Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Plan ) that
provides retirement, death and disability benefits supplementing the coverage
payable under the Retirement Plan. Effective October 1, 2003, the
Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Plan was amended so that no new
participants will be added to the plan and no additional benefits will accrue
for existing participants. The plan was designed for each participant to
receive retirement plan payments, primary Social Security benefits and
supplemental plan payments each year after retirement age 65 equal, in the
aggregate, to 70% of the participant s highest annual salary during any of the
five years preceding September 30, 2003. The net periodic pension cost for
the plan is computed on an actuarial basis and totaled ($82,000) for the 2005
fiscal year. The plan also includes provisions for early retirement and
permanent disability. The Board of Directors may approve early retirement under
the plan without the normally required reduction in the amount of the
supplemental benefit. Participants whose age and number of years of service,
when added together, equal at least 90 are automatically eligible for early
retirement benefits without reduction.  

  If a participant dies before receiving
120 monthly payments under the Executive Supplemental Retirement Income
Plan, the participant s designated beneficiaries will receive the remaining
balance of the 120 payments. The amount of each monthly payment will be equal
to the amount the participant was receiving or was entitled to receive before
death, or, if the participant was employed by the Company at death and the
resulting payment amount would be larger, the monthly amount will range from
$4,000 to $12,000, depending on the officer. This monthly death benefit will be
reduced by any monthly benefit payable to the participant s surviving spouse.
The surviving spouse is entitled to a monthly benefit for life equal to
one-half of the benefit the participant was entitled to before death.  

  Vesting under the Executive Supplemental Retirement
Income Plan is determined by years of participation in the plan, beginning with
the date an employee becomes a participant. The plan also provides for partial
vesting on a stepped basis, with full vesting based on age and years of
employment. An executive officer becomes fully vested when one of the following
occurs: the executive officer reaches age 55 and, if employment ends
before October 1, 2004, has completed five years of participation under
the plan; or the executive officer dies while employed; or a change in control
of the Company (as defined in the plan).  

  The
following table shows the estimated combined annual benefits that the executive
officers named in the summary compensation table above would receive under the
Retirement Plan and the Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, assuming
that they retire at age 65. Amounts shown have been reduced by the estimated
amount of Social Security benefits.  

The Company has developed
the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan that is designed, using reasonable
assumptions, to provide at retirement, at the normal retirement age 65 with 15
years of service, replacement pay equal to 55% of his average base salary
during the three consecutive fiscal years of the Company during which his base
salary was highest, after taking into account benefits under any retirement
benefits payable to him under any qualified or nonqualified retirement plan
sponsored by the Company or   

69     

his
prior employer and Social Security benefits. In fiscal 2006, the only
participants were David W. Stevens and Rick Davis. In accordance with the Plan,
accounts for Messrs. Stevens and Davis were credited with a net
contribution amount of $21,000 and $33,600 respectively in fiscal 2006. Mr. Davis
departed the Company as of November 26, 2006, therefore he is no longer
eligible for a payout under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.  

   EMPLOYMENT
AGREEMENTS     

  The Company has employment
agreements with three of the Company s executive officers, Messrs. Stevens,
Davis and Rosok, who are named in the summary compensation table above.  

   David W. Stevens     

  On March 3,
2005, the Company entered into an employment agreement with David W. Stevens,
pursuant to which Mr. Stevens became employed as the Company s President
and Chief Executive Officer. A copy of Mr. Stevens  employment agreement
was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on March 9, 2005. Under the terms of the agreement, Mr. Stevens
will receive an annual base salary of not less than $400,000. Other benefits
under the employment agreement include the following:  

             15,000
shares of the Company s Common Stock awarded to him under the Company s 1998
Stock Incentive Plan, 5,000 of which will be fully vested upon his first date
of employment, 5,000 of which will vest one year after his date of first
employment, and 5,000 of which will vest two years after his date of first
employment. 

             Annual
cash incentive compensation ranging from 0% to 108% of Mr. Stevens  base
salary. 

             Long-term
incentive awards no less favorable than that provided to other senior executive
officers of the Company under any long-term incentive plan adopted by the
Company. Mr. Stevens  anticipated target award is 20% of his base salary. 

             Supplemental
retirement benefits, as described in further detail in the section above
entitled  Executive Supplemental Retirement Income . 

             Relocation
allowance that includes reasonable closing costs in connection with the sale of
Mr. Stevens  current residence as well as other expenses involved in the
relocation of his residence. Expenses incurred due to relocation were primarily
incurred in fiscal 2005. 

             A
monthly allowance of $1,500 to provide for the lease or purchase of a car and
the payment of club dues and other such expenses. 

70  

The
employment agreement, and Mr. Stevens  employment, will terminate upon
Mr. Stevens  death and may be terminated by the Company in the event of
Mr. Stevens  disability. In addition, the Company may terminate
Mr. Stevens  employment at any time for Cause (as defined in the
employment agreement) or for any other reason upon thirty days prior written
notice. Mr. Stevens may terminate the employment agreement at any time and
for any reason upon thirty days prior written notice. In the event that the employment
of Mr. Stevens is terminated, the employment agreement provides that he
(or his estate, as the case may be) will be entitled to the following, as more
fully described in the employment agreement:  

             In
the event that the employment of Mr. Stevens is terminated upon his death
or by the Company due to his disability: (i) his accrued but unpaid base
salary and vacation through his termination date; (ii) any unpaid annual
incentive compensation earned but not paid in the previous year; (iii) any
amounts otherwise payable to Mr. Stevens under the Company s benefit plans
and programs; and (iv) an amount in lieu of any annual incentive
compensation for the current year. 

             In
the event Mr. Stevens terminates his employment other than for Good Reason
(as defined in the employment agreement): the amounts payable due to death or
disability under (i) through (iii) above. In addition, any shares in
the Company that have not vested will be forfeited. 

             In
the event that the employment of Mr. Stevens is terminated by the Company
without Cause, or Mr. Stevens elects to terminate his employment for Good
Reason or within one year following a Change of Control (as defined in the
employment agreement), Mr. Stevens will not be entitled to benefits under
the Company s severance plan but will be entitled to the following:
(A) the amounts payable due to death or disability under (i) through
(iii) above; (B) a separation payment in the amount of 0.75 times
Mr. Stevens  annualized base salary plus the average of the annual
incentive compensation paid in the two fiscal years prior to the year in which
his termination occurs; and (C) a non-compete payment in the amount of
1.25 times Mr. Stevens  annualized base salary plus the average of the
annual incentive compensation paid in the two fiscal years prior to the year in
which his termination occurs. In the event that two fiscal years have not been
completed, the annual incentive compensation shall be deemed to be the entire
potential cash incentive compensation. Mr. Stevens and his immediate
family also will be entitled to life and welfare benefits substantially similar
to those provided to the Company s senior executive officers for a period of 18
months after Mr. Stevens  termination. Upon approval of the Governance,
Nominating and Compensation Committee, any unvested stock options held by
Mr. Stevens will be deemed fully vested and exercisable for a period of
one year after his termination. 

             In
the event that the employment of Mr. Stevens is terminated by the Company
for Cause, he will be entitled to receive his accrued but unpaid base salary
and any amounts otherwise payable to him under the Company s benefit plans and
programs. 

  As a condition of his
employment, Mr. Stevens has agreed not to compete with the Company or
solicit customers or employees of the Company for a period of two years
following termination of his employment with the Company. These non-compete and
non-solicitation agreements, however, may not be enforceable in some
jurisdictions or may be enforceable only in part. Under Mr. Stevens 
employment agreement, the Company also has agreed to indemnify and hold
harmless Mr. Stevens against damages or other losses resulting from his
good faith performance of his duties and obligations under the employment
agreement. This right of indemnification shall be in addition to any rights of
indemnification provided in the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws
or under applicable law.  

71     

Rick Davis     

  On June 16, 2005, the
Company entered into an employment agreement with Rick Davis, when Mr. Davis
became employed as the Company s Chief Financial Officer. However, Mr. Davis
has departed the Company as of November 26, 2006.  A copy of Mr. Davis  employment agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1
to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 17,
2005.  As disclosed in the summary of Executive Compensation, Mr. Davis
executed a release, consistent with the process set forth in his employment
agreement, pursuant to which Mr. Davis will receive a separation payment
and, assuming compliance with his non-compete covenants, non-compete payments.
The total amount of all payments will ultimately aggregate to $715,000 assuming
full compliance.   

   Larry C. Rosok     

  On July 19, 1995, the
Company entered into an employment agreement with Larry C. Rosok. Mr. Rosok s
employment agreement is designed to assure that he will continue to function
effectively and without distraction if uncertainties regarding the future
control of the Company should arise. Upon a change in control of the Company or
during the pendency of certain offers for a change in control, as these terms
are defined in the employment agreement, he is entitled to receive the
severance benefits described below if the Company terminates his employment
other than for cause as defined in the employment agreement. In addition, Mr. Rosok
is entitled to receive severance benefits for three years after a change in
control of the Company if the Company terminates his employment other than for
cause or if he terminates his employment for good reason. Under the terms of Mr. Rosok s
employment agreement, the severance payments are equal to three times his base
salary and incentive compensation at the time the change in control occurs, but
are reduced to the extent required to avoid subjecting the payments to penalty
taxes on excess parachute payments. In addition, under the employment
agreement, Mr. Rosok is entitled to continue to participate in health,
life, and disability plans for which he is eligible at the time of termination
of his employment. Severance payments will terminate when his benefits are
vested under the Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Plan. Mr. Rosok s
employment agreement is automatically extended on December 31 of each year
for a period of one year unless either the Company or Mr. Rosok elects not
to extend the term by giving the other party 30 days  notice prior to year
end. The term of the employment agreement is extended automatically for a
period of three years upon a change in control of the Company. Mr. Rosok s
employment agreement terminates if his employment under the agreement is
terminated before a change in control occurs and while there is no offer
pending for a change in control, except as noted above.  

   Michael J. Gardner   

  On January 11, 2006, the
Company entered into an employment agreement with Michael J. Gardner. Mr.
Gardner s employment agreement is designed to assure that he will continue to
function effectively and without distraction if uncertainties regarding the
future control of the Company should arise. Upon a change in control of the
Company or during the pendency of certain offers for a change in control, as
these terms are defined in the employment agreement, he is entitled to receive
the severance benefits described below if the Company terminates his employment
other than for cause as defined in the employment agreement. In addition, Mr.
Gardner is entitled to receive severance benefits after a change in control of
the Company if the Company terminates his employment other than for cause or if
he terminates his employment for good reason. Under the terms of Mr. Gardner s
employment agreement, the severance payment is equal to two times his base
salary and incentive compensation at the time the change in control occurs, but
is reduced to the extent required to avoid subjecting the payments to penalty
taxes on excess parachute payments. In addition, under the employment
agreement, Mr. Gardner is entitled to continue to participate in health, life,
and disability plans for which he is eligible at the time of termination of his
employment. Mr. Gardner s employment agreement is automatically extended on
December 31 of each   

72     

year for
a period of one year unless either the Company or Mr. Gardner elects not to
extend the term by giving the other party 30 days  notice prior to year end.
The term of the employment agreement is extended automatically for a period of
three years upon a change in control of the Company. Mr. Gardner s
employment agreement terminates if his employment under the agreement is
terminated before a change in control occurs and while there is no offer
pending for a change in control, except as noted above.  

   DIRECTOR
COMPENSATION     

  For the fiscal year ended September 30,
2006, the Company paid each non-employee director an annual stipend of $5,000 as
well as a fee of $500 for each Board or committee meeting attended or a
committee fee of $250 if the committee meeting was held on the same day as a
Board meeting. Mr. Pinnt receives an additional stipend of $2,500 per
month for his service as Chairman of the Board. The Chairs of the Pension
Committee and the Governance, Nominating and Compensation Committee each
receives an additional annual stipend of $5,000. The Chair of the Audit
Committee receives an additional annual stipend of $7,500. Directors named as  financial
experts  receive an additional annual stipend of $3,000 as long as they are not
already being compensated for being the Chair of the Audit Committee or the
Chairman of the Board. Ms. Borland and Mr. Pinnt are designated as
financial experts, but serve as the Chair of the Audit Committee and Chairman
of the Board, respectively, so they receive no additional compensation for
being designated as financial experts. Employee directors receive no additional
compensation for serving as Directors. Mr. Stevens currently is the only
employee director.  

  External continuing
education for directors, including expenses for materials and travel, obtained
through board education programs at universities and elsewhere will be paid by
the Company at up to $1,000 per fiscal year. The Chair of the Governance,
Nominating and Compensation Committee may approve reimbursement greater than
$1,000 per year. Internal continuing education through Company meetings or
orientations shall be compensated at the same rate as attendance at a Board
meeting.  

  Each non-employee director
was also entitled to receive 1000 shares of the Company s Common Stock for
service in fiscal 2006 pursuant to the 2000 Director Stock Award Plan as
amended in 2006 and approved at the annual meeting of Shareholders on February 17,
2006. Pursuant to the plan, each non-employee director may elect to defer
receipt of his or her shares until he or she is no longer a member of the
Board. Mr. Ederer elected to defer receipt of his shares for fiscal 2006.   

   COMPENSATION
COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION     

  During fiscal 2006, Messrs. Burnham,
Ederer, Thomas and Cronin served on the Governance, Nominating and Compensation
Committee. Members of the Governance, Nominating and Compensation Committee receive
no compensation from the Company other than Board-approved fees for
service on this or other committees or on the Board. During fiscal year 2006,
none of our executive officers served on the compensation committee (or its
equivalent) or board of directors of another entity whose executive officer(s) served
on our Governance, Nominating and Compensation Committee.  

73     

REPORT
OF THE GOVERNANCE, NOMINATING AND   COMPENSATION  
COMMITTEE TO SHAREHOLDERS   

  The Governance, Nominating
and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors assists the Board in
fulfilling its responsibility to shareholders, potential shareholders, and the
investment community relating to oversight of corporate governance issues,
executive and board succession, and executive and board compensation. The
Committee is composed of four independent non-employee directors.  

   Report on Executive Compensation     

  The
Committee is responsible for reviewing the compensation levels for all
executive officers of the Company and making recommendations to the Board
concerning officer salary levels. The Committee s review includes an assessment
of the overall management of the Company and the officers  ability to achieve a
reasonable growth of shareholder value under a variety of conditions. The
Committee uses both qualitative and quantitative measures when performing its
duties of recommending officer compensation levels to the Board of Directors,
which may be summarized as follows:   

             Officer
compensation should be comparable with compensation paid to officers of similar
companies, particularly those the Company must compete with in attracting and
retaining skilled and competent individuals.  

             An
officer should also be compensated for his or her contributions to the
performance of the Company. In evaluating performance, the Committee considers
the Company s return on shareholder s equity, in relation to a peer group of
companies and factors affecting net income.  

             An
officer s progress toward achieving corporate goals should be considered. 

  In 2006, the Committee
recommended and the Board approved a short-term incentive program, the  Cascade
Incentive Plan.  The Cascade Incentive Plan provides for cash payments to
officers and other salaried employees if the Company is cash-flow neutral as
defined in the plan, if operational targets relating to safety and customer
service are attained and if earnings targets are achieved. In 2006, the CEO
could earn an additional 50% of base salary if his targets are reached and up
to 100% of base salary if the maximum achievement is reached. For other
officers, target achievement levels would result in awards of 24% to 49% of
base pay with a maximum range for officers from 48% to 98% of base pay. In
addition, the Committee recommended and the Board approved a 401(k) Profit
Sharing Plan which provides for payouts if the Company is cash flow neutral and
if earnings targets are achieved. The midpoint payout under the 401(k) Profit
Sharing Plan is 4% and the range of payouts varies from 0 to 8%.  

  In 2006 the Committee also
recommended and the Board approved a long-term incentive plan that grants
restricted stock to selected executive officers based on performance and
retention. Under the plan, the participants may receive shares of Common Stock
of the Company after a three-year period, depending on the Company s
performance in terms of return on equity compared to a peer group during the
period. At present, the only participant is David W. Stevens.  

  In addition, the Board has
adopted a non-qualified executive supplemental retirement plan. The Board will
designate participants from time-to-time. At present, the only participant is
David W. Stevens. The plan is a defined contribution plan that provides for a
retirement income target of 55% of final pay after taking into consideration
benefits earned from other retirement plans and Social Security.  

   Summary of Executive Compensation Changes for 2007     

  The Committee and the Board have made several changes
in executive compensation for fiscal 2007. The Committee recommended and the
Board approved a short-term incentive program, the  Cascade Incentive Plan, 
with some modifications from 2006. The Cascade Incentive Plan provides for cash
payments to officers and other salaried employees if the Company comes in below
its capital budget target,   

74     

if
operational targets relating to safety and customer satisfaction are attained,
and if earnings targets are achieved. Under the Cascade Incentive Plan, the CEO
could earn an additional 50% of base salary if his targets are reached and up
to 100% of base salary if the maximum achievement is reached. For other
officers, target achievement levels would result in awards of 25% of base pay
with a maximum range for officers of 50% of base pay. In addition, the
Committee recommended and the Board approved a 401(k) Profit Sharing
Plan which provides for payouts if the Company is cash flow neutral and if
earnings targets are achieved. The midpoint payout under the 401(k) Profit
Sharing Plan is 4% and the range of payouts varies from 0 to 8%.  

   Compensation for David W. Stevens     

  Mr. David W. Stevens
is President and Chief Executive Officer of Cascade Natural Gas Corporation. Mr. Stevens
was recruited to this position and began on April 1, 2005. In order to
recruit and retain Mr. Stevens, the Company considered market-based total compensation
as well as Mr. Stevens  knowledge and achievements in executive level
positions in the natural gas industry. Going forward, the Committee will
consider the following contributions in establishing his salary, short-term
incentive, and long-term incentives: impact on enhancing shareholder value, and
influence on the direction and performance of the Company consistent with the
Company s core values including safety, customer service and the attainment of
other corporate goals.   

  For 2006, Mr. Stevens
grant of restricted stock in the Long Term Incentive Plan was based on
reasonable expectations with regard to how the Company would perform relative
to its peers, as well as providing an incentive to create long-term value for
the Company and in compliance with his employment agreement. Mr. Stevens
base salary for 2006 and salary increase for 2006 was based on achieving goals
including positive results in improving the financial performance of the
Company while controlling capital spending and performing consistently with the
Company s core values.  

   Applicable Tax Code Provision     

  Due to the Company s
compensation structure, the Committee has not deemed it necessary thus far to
adopt a policy regarding the deductibility of certain executive compensation
under federal tax laws.  

   Governance, Nominating and Compensation Committee
Members     

Douglas G. Thomas, Chair 

David A. Ederer  

Thomas E. Cronin  

Carl Burnham, Jr.  

75     

STOCK PERFORMANCE
GRAPH     

  The
following graph compares the total cumulative returns to an investor in (i) the
Company s Common Stock, (ii) the Standard   Poor s Utilities
Index and (iii) the Standard   Poor s 500 Index, each for the
period from October 1, 2001 through September 30, 2006. The graph
assumes that $1,000 was invested on September 30, 2001 in the Common Stock
and in each of the above-mentioned indices and that all dividends were
reinvested. The S P Utilities Index encompasses companies considered
electric, gas or water utilities, or companies that operate as independent
producers and/or distributors of power.  

Comparative
Market Peformance     

   Total
Returns   

   Periods
Ended September 30, 2006   

76  

Item 12.                     Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder   Matters 

   SECURITY OWNERSHIP
OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL   
OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT   

  The
following table shows certain information regarding the beneficial ownership,
as of September 30, 2006 of the Company s Common Stock by (a) each
director, the Chief Executive Officer, and the other four most highly paid
executive officers of the Company and (b) all current directors and
executive officers as a group. The Company is not aware of any beneficial owner
of 5% or more of the Common Stock. Except as otherwise indicated in the table,
the Company believes the beneficial owners of the shares listed below have sole
investment and voting power with respect to the shares.  

*                       Less than one
percent. 

  (1)             Includes
shares held in the Company s Employee Retirement Savings Plan and Trust (the  401(k) Plan )
in the following amounts: 

(2)             Includes shares awarded
under the 1991 and 2000 Director Stock Award Plans to Messrs. Ederer,
Ragen and Burnham of 8,914, 1,308 and 581 shares, respectively, including
reinvested dividends, as to which receipt has been deferred until they are no
longer directors. 

  (3)             Mr. Burnham s
shares include 2,250 shares held in The Margaret Burnham Trust, a revocable
trust of which Mr. Burnham is the sole trustee and a potential beneficiary.
Mr. Burnham disclaims beneficial ownership of these shares except to the
extent of his pecuniary interest therein. 

77     

Change of Control     

  The Company entered into a
definitive merger agreement with MDU Resources Group, Inc. on July 8,
2006 to be acquired for cash consideration of $26.50 per share. The merger is
expected to be completed after the receipt of regulatory approvals and
satisfaction of other closing conditions, currently anticipated to occur by
mid-year 2007. See Part I, Item 1 Business for additional information.   

   Item 13.                     Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions    

  We have not engaged in any related party transactions
in 2006 which require disclosure under Item 404 of Regulation S-K, and no
such transactions are currently proposed.  

  The Board has adopted standards to determine the
independence of its members under the applicable requirements of the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, and has determined
that all directors are independent under such standards, except for David W.
Stevens, President and CEO. Mr. Stevens  lack of independence relates
entirely to his service as an executive officer of the Company and not from any
other transaction or relationship. The independence standards are listed below
and are available on the Company s website at  www.cngc.com .  

  Standards of
Independence for Directors:  

  1.      Independent
directors shall not have relationships with the Corporation or others that
impair their exercise of independent judgment in carrying out their
responsibilities.   

  2.      Relationships
that might impair independence include material commercial, industrial,
banking, consulting, legal, accounting, charitable, and family relationships.  

  3.      A
director will not be considered independent if s/he is an employee of the
Corporation or receives direct compensation from the Corporation other than
director and committee fees.   

  4.      A
director will not be considered independent if s/he has an immediate family
member who is an executive officer of the Corporation or who receives more than
$100,000 per year in direct compensation from the Corporation.   

  5.      A
director will not be considered independent who is affiliated with or employed
by, or whose immediate family member is affiliated with or employed by, in a
professional capacity, a present or former internal or external auditor of the
Corporation.   

  6.      A
director will not be considered independent who is employed, or whose immediate
family member is employed, as an executive officer of another company if any of
the Corporation s present executive officers serve on that company s
compensation committee.   

  7.      A
director will not be considered independent who is an executive officer or
employee, or whose immediate family member is an executive officer, of a
company that makes payments to or receives payments from the Corporation for
property or services in an amount which in any single fiscal year exceeds the
greater of $1 million or two percent (2%) of such other company s
consolidated gross revenues.  

  8.      All directors shall complete, at least annually, and have a
duty to update as necessary, written representations as to their relationships,
to identify those which might cause them not to be independent as defined by
the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange, or these
standards.   

78     

Item 14.                     Principal
Accountant Fees and Services    

   INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
AUDITORS     

  Aggregate
fees billed to the Company for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006
and 2005 by the Company s principal accounting firm, Deloitte   Touche
LLP, the member firms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, and their respective
affiliates (collectively,  Deloitte   Touche ) were as follows:  

(a)              Includes $232,741 fees
in 2006 and $294,878 in 2005 for the review of the Company s internal controls
over financial reporting in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

  (b)             Includes fees in 2005
and 2006 for benefit plan audits. 

  (c)              Includes fees in 2005
for preparation of amended tax returns for the Company. 

  All such fees were
approved by the Audit Committee in accordance with the policies set forth
below.  

   Pre-Approval of
Services     

  All audit and audit-related
services and tax services provided by the independent auditor must be pre-approved
by the Audit Committee. The independent auditor will submit an engagement plan
annually which may propose:  

             audit
services for the Company and subsidiaries; 

             review
of annual reports on Form 10-K and issuance of audit report on financial
statements; 

             consents,
comfort letters, reviews of registration statements and similar services that
incorporate or include the audited financial statements of the Company; 

             employee
benefit plan audits; 

             accounting
consultations and support related to GAAP; 

             attendance
at annual shareholders  meeting, Audit Committee meetings, and phone
conferences; 

             recommendations
issued to management; 

             review
of interim financial information on Form 10-Q. 

  Other audit-related
work must be approved by the Audit Committee on a case-by-case basis. All other
fees, including tax fees, are also pre-approved by the Audit Committee.  

  The Audit Committee may pre-approve an audit or audit-related
service at any time in advance of the activity unless the SEC or the Accounting
Oversight Board specifies a period of time in advance of which an approval must
be granted. The Audit Committee may delegate to one or more designated members
of the Audit Committee the authority to grant required pre-approvals. The
decisions of any member to whom authority is delegated to pre-approve an audit-related
activity will be reported to the full Audit Committee at each of its scheduled
meetings.  

79  

On a quarterly basis the
Audit Committee will review services provided and fees of the independent
auditor. This quarterly review will include all services provided by the
independent auditor whether approved in the annual engagement plan or
otherwise.  

   PART IV     

   Item 15.                     Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules   

(a) 

1.  

Consolidated Financial Statements:  

Consolidated
  Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income   

31  

Consolidated
  Balance Sheets   

32  

Consolidated
  Statements of Common Shareholders  Equity   

34  

Consolidated
  Statements of Cash Flows   

35  

Notes
  to Consolidated Financial Statements   

36  

2.  

Consolidated Financial
  Statement Schedule:  

SCHEDULE II   

   CASCADE NATURAL GAS CORPORATION   
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS     

Note: Accounts written off, net of recoveries  

3.  

Exhibits: 
  Reference is made to the index to exhibits following the signature
  page of this report. Each management contract or compensatory plan or
  arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this report is identified
  in the list.  

80  

SIGNATURES     

  Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

CASCADE
  NATURAL GAS CORPORATION  

December 7, 2006  

By  

/s/ DAVID W. STEVENS  

Date  

David W. Stevens  

President and Chief Executive Officer   

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated:  

/s/ DAVID W. STEVENS 

President, and Chief Executive Officer  

December 7,
  2006  

David W. Stevens  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

Date  

/s/ JAMES
  E. HAUG  

Chief Accounting Officer  

December 7,
  2006  

James E. Haug  

(Principal Financial Officer and  

Date  

Principal Accounting Officer)  

/s/ LARRY
  L. PINNT  

Chairman of the Board of
  Directors  

December 7,
  2006  

Larry L. Pinnt  

Date  

/s/ SCOTT
  M. BOGGS  

Director  

December 7,
  2006  

Scott M. Boggs  

Date  

/s/ PIRKKO
  H. BORLAND  

Director  

December 7,
  2006  

Pirkko H. Borland  

Date  

/s/ CARL
  BURNHAM, JR  

Director  

December 7,
  2006  

Carl Burnham, Jr.  

Date  

/s/ THOMAS
  E. CRONIN  

Director  

December 7,
  2006  

Thomas E. Cronin  

Date  

/s/ DAVID
  A. EDERER  

Director  

December 7,
  2006  

David A. Ederer  

Date  

/s/ BROOKS
  G. RAGEN  

Director  

December 7,
  2006  

Brooks G. Ragen  

Date  

/s/ DOUGLAS
  G. THOMAS  

Director  

December 7,
  2006  

Douglas G. Thomas  

Date  

81  

INDEX
TO EXHIBITS     

Exhibit No 

Description   

2  

Agreement and Plan of
  Merger by and among MDU Resources Group, Inc., Firemoon
  Acquisition, Inc., and Cascade Natural Gas Corporation dated as of
  July 8, 2006. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
  Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 8, 2006.  

3.1  

Restated Articles
  of Incorporation of the Registrant as amended through March 28, 1996.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant s current
  report on Form 8-K filed July 19, 1996.  

3.2  

Amended and
  Restated Bylaws of the Registrant. Incorporated by reference to the
  Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 27,
  2006.  

4.1  

Indenture dated
  as of August 1, 1992, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York
  relating to Medium-Term Notes. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to
  the Registrant s current report on Form 8-K dated August 12,
  1992.  

4.2  

First
  Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 25, 1993, between the
  Registrant and The Bank of New York relating to Medium-Term Notes and the
  7.5% Notes due November 15, 2031. Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 4 to the Registrant s quarterly report on Form 10-Q
  for the quarter ended June 30, 1993.  

4.3  

Second
  Supplemental Indenture, dated January 25, 2005, between the Company and
  The Bank of New York, as trustee. Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant s current report on Form 8-K
  dated January 25, 2005.  

10.1  

1998 Stock
  Incentive Plan of the Registrant.* Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for the year ended September 30, 1998.  

10.1.1  

First Amendment
  to the Cascade Natural Gas Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan dated
  January 24, 2002.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99 to the
  Registrant s 2002 Registration Statement on Form S-8 for the 1998
  Stock Incentive Plan.  

10.1.2  

Second Amendment
  to Cascade Natural Gas Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan dated
  February 16, 2006.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
  the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
  February 17, 2006.  

10.1.3  

Third Amendment
  to Cascade Natural Gas Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan and Second
  Amendment to Cascade Natural Gas Corporation 2000 Director Stock Award Plan.*
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s Current
  Report on Form 8-K dated September14, 2006.  

10.2  

Service Agreement
  (Storage Gas Service under Rate Schedule SGS-1) dated January 12,
  1994, between Northwest Pipeline Corporation and the Registrant. Incorporated
  by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (1993
  Form 10-K).  

10.3  

Service agreement
  (assigned Storage Gas Service under Rate Schedule SGS-1) dated
  January 12, 1994, between Northwest Pipeline Corporation and the
  Registrant. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
  Registrant s 1993 Form 10-K.  

10.4  

Service Agreement
  (Liquefaction Storage Gas Service under Rate Schedule LS-1) dated
  January 12, 1994, between Northwest Pipeline Corporation and the
  Registrant. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
  Registrant s 1993 Form 10-K.  

82     

83     

84     

85     

10.49 

Long-Term Incentive
  Award Agreement dated September 14, 2006, between the Company and David
  W. Stevens.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
  Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 14,
  2006.  

10.50  

Long-Term
  Incentive Award Agreement dated September 14, 2006, between the Company
  and Rick Davis.* Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
  Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 14,
  2006.  

10.51  

Cascade Natural
  Gas Corporation 2007 Incentive Plan and 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan.*
  Incorporated by Reference to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K
  dated October 27, 2006.  

12.  

Statement
  regarding computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred
  dividend requirements.  

14.  

Employee Ethics
  Policy. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14.1 to the Registrant s
  Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 29, 2004.  

21.  

A list of the
  Registrant s subsidiaries is omitted because the subsidiaries considered in
  the aggregate as a single subsidiary do not constitute a significant
  subsidiary.  

23.  

Consent of
  Deloitte   Touche, LLP to the incorporation of their report in the
  Registrant s registration statements.  

31.1  

Certification of
  Principal Executive Officer Accompanying Periodic Report Pursuant to
  Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2  

Certification of
  Principal Financial Officer Accompanying Periodic Report Pursuant to
  Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.  

Certification Pursuant
  to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
  the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

*                       Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 

86  

<EX-10.12>
 2
 a06-24934_1ex10d12.htm
 EX-10

Exhibit 10.12   

   Rate Schedule TF-1
Service Agreement     

   Contract No. 100002     

  THIS SERVICE AGREEMENT (Agreement) restates the
Service Agreement made and entered into on July 31, 1991, by and between
Northwest Pipeline Corporation (Transporter) and Cascade Natural Gas
Corporation (Shipper). WHEREAS:  

  A                   Pursuant to
Section 11.4 of the General Terms and Conditions of Transporter s FERC Gas
Tariff, Transporter and Shipper desire to restate the Service Agreement dated
July 31, 1991 (Contract #100002), as previously restated on
October 18, 2005May 16, 2006, in the format of Northwest s currently
effective Form of Service Agreement and to make certain additional
non-substantive changes, while preserving all pre-existing, substantive
contractual rights. 

  B                    Transporter and
Shipper desire to amend the Agreement to remove the La Maquina receipt
point and reallocate 1,000 Dth/day of MDQ from the La Maquina receipt point to
the Blanco receipt point. 

  THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual
covenants set forth herein, Transporter and Shipper agree as follows:  

  1.    Tariff
Incorporation.   Rate Schedule TF-1 and the General Terms and
Conditions (GT C) that apply to Rate Schedule TF-1, as such may be
revised from time to time in Transporter s FERC Gas Tariff (Tariff), are incorporated
by reference as part of this Agreement, except to the extent that any
provisions thereof may be modified by non-conforming provisions herein.  

  2.    Transportation
Service.   Subject to the terms and conditions that apply to service under
this Agreement, Transporter agrees to receive, transport and deliver natural
gas for Shipper, on a firm basis. The Transportation Contract Demand, the
Maximum Daily Quantity at each Primary Receipt Point, and the Maximum Daily
Delivery Obligation at each Primary Delivery Point are set forth on Exhibit A.
If contract-specific OFO parameters are set forth on Exhibit A, whenever
Transporter requests during the specified time period, Shipper agrees to flow
gas as requested by Transporter, up to the specified volume through the
specified transportation corridor.  

  3.    Transportation
Rates.   Shipper agrees to pay Transporter for all services rendered under
this Agreement at the rates set forth or referenced herein. Reservation charges
apply to the Contract Demand set forth on Exhibit A. The maximum currently
effective rates (Recourse Rates) set forth in the Statement of Rates in the
Tariff, as revised from time to time, that apply to the Rate Schedule TF-1
customer category identified on Exhibit A, will apply to service hereunder
unless and to the extent that discounted Recourse Rates or awarded capacity
release rates apply as set forth on Exhibit A or negotiated rates apply as
set forth on Exhibit D. Additionally, if applicable under Section 21
of the GT C, Shipper agrees to pay Transporter a facility reimbursement
charge as set forth on Exhibit C.  

  4.    Transportation
Term.   This Agreement becomes effective on the date first set forth above.
The primary term begin date for the transportation service hereunder is set
forth on Exhibit A. This Agreement will remain in full force and effect
through the primary term end date set forth on Exhibit A and, if Exhibit A
indicates that an evergreen provision applies, through the established
evergreen rollover periods thereafter until terminated in accordance with the
notice requirements under the applicable evergreen provision.  

  5.    Non-Conforming
Provisions.   All aspects in which this Agreement deviates from the Tariff,
if any, are set forth as non-conforming provisions on Exhibit B. If Exhibit B
includes any material non-conforming provisions, Transporter will file the
Agreement with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission) and the
effectiveness of such non-conforming provisions will be subject to the
Commission acceptance of Transporter s filing of the non-conforming Agreement.  

6.    Capacity
Release.   If Shipper is a temporary capacity release Replacement Shipper,
any capacity release conditions, including recall rights, are set forth on Exhibit A.  

  7.    Exhibit Incorporation.   Exhibit A
is attached hereto and incorporated as part of this Agreement. If Exhibits B, C
and/or D apply, as noted on Exhibit A to this Agreement, then such
Exhibits also are attached hereto and incorporated as part of this Agreement.  

  8.    Regulatory
Authorization.   Transportation service under this Agreement is authorized
pursuant to the Commission regulations set forth on Exhibit A.  

  9.    Superseded
Agreements.   When this Agreement takes effect, it supersedes, cancels and
terminates the following agreement(s): Restated Firm Transportation Agreement
dated July 31, 1991.  

  IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, Transporter and Shipper have executed this Restated Agreement
on May 16, 2006.  

CASCADE NATURAL GAS CORPORATION 

NORTHWEST PIPELINE
  CORPORATION  

By:  

/s/  

By:  

/s/  

Name: JON STOLTZ  

Name: JANE F HARRISON  

Title:  SR. VP, 
  REGULATORY   GAS MGMT  

Title:  MANAGER  NWP
  MARKETING SERVICES  

EXHIBIT A    
(Dated May 16, 2006, Effective May 16, 2006)  
to the  
Rate Schedule TF-1 Service Agreement  
(Contract No. 100002)  
between Northwest Pipeline Corporation  
and Cascade Natural Gas Corporation   

   SERVICE DETAILS   

  1.                    Transportation
Contract Demand (CD): 206,123 Dth per day 

  2.                    Primary
Receipt Point(s): 

3.                    Primary
Delivery Point(s): 

4.                    Customer
Category: 

  a.      Large
Customer  

  b.     Incremental
Expansion Customer: No  

  5.                    Recourse or
Discounted Recourse Transportation Rates:  

  a.      Reservation
Charge (per Dth of CD):  

  Maximum Base Tariff Rate, plus applicable surcharges  

  b.     Volumetric
Charge (per Dth):  

  Maximum Base Tariff Rate, plus applicable surcharges  

c.                    Additional
Facility Reservation Surcharge Pursuant to Section 3.4 of Rate Schedule TF-1
(per Dth of CD): 

  None  

  d.                   Rate Discount
Conditions Consistent with Section 3.5 of Rate Schedule TF-1: 

  Not Applicable  

  6.                    Transportation
Term:  

  a.                    Primary Term
Begin Date: 

  November 01, 1992  

  b.                   Primary Term End
Date: 

  April 30, 2015  

  c.                    Evergreen
Provision: 

  Yes, grandfathered unilateral evergreen under
Section 12.3 of Rate Schedule TF-1  

  7.                    Contract-Specific
OFO Parameters: None.  

  8.                    Regulatory
Authorization: 18 CFR 284.223 

  9.                    Additional
Exhibits:  

  Exhibit B Yes, dated October 18, 2005  

  Exhibit C No  

  Exhibit D No  

EXHIBIT
B    
(Dated October 18, 2005,  
Effective October 18, 2005)  
to the  
Rate Schedule TF-1 Service Agreement  
(Contract No. 100002)  
between Northwest Pipeline Corporation  
and Cascade Natural Gas Corporation   

   NON-CONFORMING
PROVISIONS     

   1.                      Primary
Delivery Points  

   The following provision
clarifying the pressure obligation at the Moses Lake delivery point originally
was added to the Agreement by amendment dated April 1, 1998, as discussed
in Transporter s prior notice application for new Moses Lake delivery
facilities filed with the Commission in Docket No. CP98-372 and
approved effective June 16, 1998:   

  In the event the hourly rate at the Moses Lake
delivery point exceeds 1,207 Dth during that gas flow day, the delivery
pressure of 300 psig will not apply.  

</EX-10.12>

<EX-12>
 3
 a06-24934_1ex12.htm
 EX-12

EXHIBIT 12   

   CASCADE
NATURAL GAS CORPORATION   

   COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
AND PREFERRED DIVIDEND REQUIREMENTS     

</EX-12>

<EX-23>
 4
 a06-24934_1ex23.htm
 EX-23

EXHIBIT 23   

   CONSENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  We consent to the
incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-69516 and 333-124597
on Form S-3 and Registration Statement Nos. 33-61035, 33-39837,
333-87288, and 333-88419 on Form S-8 of our reports
dated December 6, 2006, relating to the consolidated financial statements
and financial statement schedule of Cascade Natural Gas Corporation, and
management s report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
appearing in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Cascade Natural Gas
Corporation for the year ended September 30, 2006.  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 a06-24934_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit
31.1   

   CERTIFICATION
ACCOMPANYING PERIODIC REPORT   
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  I,
David W. Stevens, certify that:  

  1.                   I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cascade Natural Gas
Corporation; 

  2.                   Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                   Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                   The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

  (a)              designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  (b)             designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

  (c)              evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  (d)             disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                   The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  (a)              all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

  (b)             any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
  December 7, 2006 

By:  

/s/
  DAVID W. STEVENS  

David W. Stevens  

President
  and Chief Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer)   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 a06-24934_1ex31d2.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit
31.2   

   CERTIFICATION
ACCOMPANYING PERIODIC REPORT 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

  I,
James E. Haug, certify that:  

  1.                   I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cascade Natural Gas
Corporation; 

  2.                   Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                   Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                   The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

  (a)              designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  (b)             designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

  (c)              evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

  (d)             disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                   The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  (a)              all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

  (b)             any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
  December 7, 2006 

By: 

/s/
  JAMES E. HAUG  

James E. Haug  

Chief
  Accounting Officer   

(Principal
  Financial Officer)   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 7
 a06-24934_1ex32.htm
 EX-32

EXHIBIT 32   

   Certification
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,   
as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

  In connection with
the filing of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30,
2006 (the  Report ) by Cascade Natural Gas Corporation (the  Company ), each of
the undersigned hereby certifies that:  

  1.                   The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

  2.                   The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

  A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been
provided to Cascade Natural Gas Corporation and will be retained by Cascade
Natural Gas Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or staff upon request.  

Date:   

December 7, 2006  

/s/
  DAVID W. STEVENS  

David W. Stevens  

President
  and Chief Executive Officer   

/s/
  JAMES E. HAUG  

James E. Haug  

Chief
  Accounting Officer   

</EX-32>

