<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061027_10-K_edgar_data_27748_0000950137-06-011525_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>758276</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>249432</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>313183</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>50</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-011525.hdr.sgml : 20061027
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061027151030
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-011525
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060729
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061027
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061027

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			DEL GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000027748
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC [3679]
		IRS NUMBER:				131784308
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-03319
		FILM NUMBER:		061168653

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		11550 WEST KING STREET
		CITY:			FRANKLIN PARK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60131
		BUSINESS PHONE:		847 2887000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		11550 WEST KING STREET
		CITY:			FRANKLIN PARK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60131

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DEL ELECTRONICS CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Q8C0NVpwZZpunyTi5c29KgofTY/X9msBo2zFuM8VuIel/vEvVP5W+mpVLojBY/ry
 I6Xb7EG5RBkxi0ehnAPUcQ==

 0000950137-06-011525.txt : 20061027

10-K
 1
 c09365e10vk.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF 
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the fiscal year ended July 29, 2006

OR 

For the transition period from                        to                       

Commission file number 0-3319 

DEL GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES CORP.  

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code (847) 288-7000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

None

None 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, $.10 par value ( Common Stock )  
(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act. Yes      No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes      No    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes      No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (Check one).

Large accelerated filer           Accelerated filer           Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2). Yes      No   

State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non
affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the
average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of the last business day of the registrant s
most recently completed second fiscal quarter.

The aggregate market value of the registrant s Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of January 27, 2006, was $36,008,648. Solely for the purposes of this calculation,
shares held by directors and executive officers of the Registrant have been
excluded. Such exclusion should not be deemed a determination or an admission by the Registrant
that such individuals are, in fact, affiliates of the Registrant.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common stock,
as of the latest practicable date.

As of October 20, 2006, there were 11,660,524 shares of the registrant s common stock
outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III incorporate by reference information from the
registrant s proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection
with the solicitation of proxies for the registrant s 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART I   
     ITEM 1. BUSINESS   
     ITEM 1A   
     ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   
     ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
     ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
     ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   
   PART II   
     ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
     ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
     ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
     ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
     ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
     ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
     ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
     ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION   
   PART III   
     ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   
     ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
     ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
     ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   
     ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   
   PART IV   
     ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   
   3. EXHIBITS   
   SIGNATURES   
   Waiver and Third Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement   
   Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP   
   Consent of BDO Seidman, LLP   
   302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer   
   302 Certification of Principal Financial Officer   
   906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer   
   906 Certification of Principal Financial Officer   

Table of Contents   

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Del Global Technologies Corp., a New York corporation, was incorporated in 1954. Unless
otherwise specifically indicated,  Del Global , the  Company,   we,   our,   ours,  and  us  refers
to Del Global Technologies Corp. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We are a leader in developing,
manufacturing and marketing medical and dental imaging systems and power conversion subsystems and
components worldwide. Our products include stationary and portable medical and dental diagnostic
imaging systems and electronic systems and components such as electronic filters, transformers and
capacitors.

The Company is headquartered in Franklin Park, IL. The mailing address of our headquarters is
11550 West King Street, Franklin Park, IL 60131 and our telephone number is 847-288-7000. Our
Website is www.delglobal.com. Through the Investor Relations section of our Website, we make our
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) available as soon as practicable after
they are electronically filed with the SEC. These include our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.

The sale of Del High Voltage Division ( DHV ), which was part of our Power Conversion Group,
was consummated on October 1, 2004 as described in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Accordingly, this business is presented as a
discontinued operation in all fiscal years presented. throughout this Form 10-K

EMPLOYEES

As of July 29, 2006 we had 314 employees in continuing operations. We believe that our
employee relations are good. None of our approximately 186 US based employees are represented by a
labor union. Employment by functional area as of July 29, 2006 is as follows:

OPERATING SEGMENTS   CONTINUING OPERATIONS

The operating businesses that we report as segments consist of the Medical Systems Group and
the Power Conversion Group. For fiscal 2006, the Medical Systems Group segment accounted for
approximately 85% of our revenues and the Power Conversion Group segment accounted for
approximately 15% of our revenues. Our consolidated financial statements include a non-operating
segment which covers unallocated corporate costs. None of our customers, in either the Medical
Systems Group or the Power Conversion Group, accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenues
nor is either segment dependent upon a single customer or a few customers, the loss of any one or
more of which would have a material adverse effect on such segment. For further information
concerning our operating segments, see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Our operating segments and businesses are summarized in the
following table:

2 

Table of Contents   

DIVISION  
       
      BRANDS  
       
      SUBSIDIARIES  
       
      FACILITIES  

MEDICAL SYSTEMS GROUP:

Medical Imaging

Del Medical, Villa, 
UNIVERSAL, DynaRad

Del Medical Imaging Corp 
( Del Medical )

Franklin Park, IL 

Villa Sistemi Medicali
S.p.A. ( Villa )

Milan, Italy 

POWER CONVERSION GROUP:

Electronic Systems   Components

RFI, Filtron, 
Sprague, 
Stanley

RFI Corporation ( RFI )

Bayshore, NY 

MEDICAL SYSTEMS GROUP

Our Medical Systems Group designs, manufactures, markets and sells medical and dental
diagnostic imaging systems consisting of stationary and portable imaging systems, radiographic/
fluoroscopic systems, dental imaging systems and digital radiography systems. Approximately 68% of
this segment s revenues are attributed to Villa.

Prior to December 23, 2005 the Company owned 80% of the Villa subsidiary. On December 23,
2005, the Company acquired the remaining 20% of Villa for $2.6 million plus 904,762 restricted
shares of Company common stock which were valued at $2.9 million. For further information
concerning this acquisition, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part
II, Item 8 of this Annual Report

Medical imaging systems of the types we manufacture use x-ray technology to produce diagnostic
images of matter beneath an opaque surface. An imaging system principally consists of a high
voltage power supply, an x-ray tube, a patient positioning system, and an image recording system,
which is either film or a digital detector. X-rays are generated as a result of high voltage
passing though a filament, or cathode in an X-ray tube. The cathode emits energized electrons
which collide with a positively charged tungsten anode within the tube. The collision of these
energized electrons with the anode emits the x-ray photons or x-rays. The x-ray tube is surrounded
by a thick lead shield which contains an opening and various filters to direct the x-rays towards
the patient.

The performance of the x-ray system, including image resolution, is directly linked to the
precision performance of the high voltage power supply. The object to be imaged is placed between
the x-ray tube and the image recording system. x-rays, which are not reflected by opaque surfaces,
pass through the object and expose the film or image recording system. However, if the object is
comprised of areas of varying densities or chemical compositions, x-rays will be absorbed in
proportion to the density or chemical composition of the matter. As a result, the film will be
exposed to a varying degree, thereby producing an image of the density or chemical variation within
the object. For example, because bone has a greater density than the surrounding tissue in the
body, x-rays can be used to produce an image of a skeleton. x-ray systems are differentiated by a
number of key characteristics such as application, image capture technology, image resolution,
accuracy, portability, size and cost. The design of an x-ray system requires complex engineering,
which determines the performance factors required of the various system components.

This segment designs, manufactures, markets and sells medical and dental diagnostic imaging
systems worldwide in the following markets:

MEDICAL SYSTEMS GROUP MARKETS SERVED

Hospitals

Veterinary Clinics 

Teaching Institutions

Chiropractic Clinics 

Medical Clinics

Dental Offices 

Private Practitioners

Military 

Orthopedic Facilities

Home Health Care Providers 

Imaging Centers 

Our medical imaging systems are sold under the Del, Villa, Universal, and DynaRad brand names.
The prices of our medical imaging systems range from approximately $5,000 to $250,000 per unit,
depending on the complexity and flexibility of the system. The following is a description of our
product lines in this segment.

3 

Table of Contents   

PRODUCTS

GENERAL RADIOGRAPHIC SYSTEMS   For more than 100 years, conventional projection radiography
has used film to capture x-ray images. Conventional technology requires that x-ray film be exposed
and then chemically processed to create a visible image for diagnosis.

General Radiography represents approximately 40%-60% of the Medical Systems Group s revenues
depending on the product mix within each period. We produce a broad line of conventional
radiographic products used in outpatient facilities, as well as more sophisticated and expensive
x-ray systems typically used in hospitals and clinics. For example, our higher-end EPEX and U-ARC
DRT Digital Radiographic Systems are designed to meet the broad requirements of a hospital or
teaching university s radiographic room, while our mid-range Del Medical and Villa Medical systems
are suited more to the needs of medium sized hospitals, outpatient clinics and private
practitioners.

The Moviplan product line manufactured under the Villa brand includes a variety of
configurations that fit a wide range of markets, spanning from small private practices to
hospitals, with a specific accent on emerging countries. A leading model is the tomographic
version, which allows users to take images of multiple sections of the body. This product is
manufactured by relatively few companies worldwide.

We also have a broad range of products serving medical practitioners, veterinarians and
chiropractors through our UNIVERSAL brand product line. These units are designed for durability,
are space efficient, rugged and are priced more economically. Our UNIVERSAL medical products
include a variety of configurations that can be constructed to best suit the needs of the desired
work environment. Our UNIVERSAL VetTek veterinary line of products is designed with many of the
same attributes as the medical line. Our UNIVERSAL chiropractic line, consisting of our ChiroEZ and
Raymaster product, combine precision alignment and positioning with a versatile chiro imaging
system.

During fiscal 2006, we expanded our product portfolio with the introduction of the Del Medical
U-ARC DRT Digital Radiographic System. This system enables radiologists to obtain better patient
images within a fraction of the time and with lower overall costs than traditional film-based
systems.

We also produce a full product line of high frequency medical x-ray generators which
economically provide superior quality x-ray generation, resulting in lower patient dosage, extended
tube life and less blurring due to patient motion when compared to single phase generators. We are
investigating arrangements with generator suppliers to further upgrade our medical x-ray generator
offerings.

RADIOGRAPHIC/FLUOROSCOPIC SYSTEMS   We produce a wide range of radiographic/ fluoroscopic, or
R/F, systems able to perform complex x-ray analyses with contrast liquids for sequential and real
time images. The Vision and Viromatic systems are based on the  classical approach  and require the
operator to stay in close contact to the equipment and the patient. These systems are often used
for diagnostic gastrointestinal procedures to image the progress of a radiopaque solution
(typically barium) as it travels through the digestive tract. The Apollo and Mercury systems are
based on the more modern  Remote control  technology and allow the technologist to operate the
system and perform the entire examination from a separate room, being totally shielded from the
X-ray source. The remote controlled system is also the most flexible X-ray imaging unit as it
allows to perform skeletal, Gastro-intestinal, vascular, Urological and gynaecological studies in
the same room. Remote controlled systems (Apollo and Mercury) are also widely used in connection
with our digital acquisition system DIVA, to perform digital image acquisition and real time
angiographic examinations with a vast choice of image acquisition and post-processing tools.
Digital system can also be equipped with DICOM functionalities that make it possible to transmit
the images to centralized archival units, image reviewing workstations, laser imagers, and in
general allow the system to be fully integrated into PACS (Picture Archival and Communication
Systems) networks within a hospital. As of today, the Apollo table, with a DIVA-D digital
acquisition system represents the most sophisticated piece of equipment produced by the Medical
Group.

PORTABLE AND MOBILE MEDICAL X-RAY SYSTEMS   We sell portable x-ray equipment under our DynaRad
brand including the HF-110A and PHANTOM systems, for the military and home health care provider
markets. Both of these portable systems utilize high frequency, microprocessor-controlled
technology to produce consistent quality x-rays with the added advantages of being smaller, lighter
in weight and more cost-effective than stationary x-ray systems.

Larger and more powerful mobile units are also manufactured and distributed under the Villa
brand and include the  Visitor 

4 

Table of Contents   

product line with high frequency generators up to 30 kilowatts that are typically used in
hospitals to take radiographic images directly at the patient s bed.

DENTAL SYSTEMS   We produce a broad range of DC and AC powered intra-oral (commonly known as
bite wing) x-ray systems at our Villa facility. In addition, our Rotograph Plus and Strato-2000
systems are utilized to perform panoramic images for dental applications. The most recent addition
to the dental product line are Direct Digital versions of Strato 2000 and Rotograph, which capture
panoramic images directly in digital format and can be connected to a PC for image reviewing and
post-examination processing. The relatively small price differential between digital and analog
panoramic units has triggered a very quick shift to digital technology in the marketplace which
accounts for approximately 50% of the volume of new units sold over the past two years.
The dental products are sold both with our own brand (Villa), as well as private labelled units to
selected OEM customers.

MAMMOGRAPHY SYSTEMS   We currently resell the Melody system outside of the US. The Melody
unit is manufactured by a European-based manufacturer and sold under the Villa brand. Although we
have exclusive use of the  Melody  name, our supplier markets a similar product in several
competing markets.

SURGICAL C-ARMS   We sell a mobile C-arm unit called  Arcovis 2000  under the Villa brand.
The product is manufactured by a European Company which also sells similar products to other
customers.

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION: Our medical imaging systems are sold in the US and
internationally, principally by a network of over 200 distributors worldwide. Medical imaging
systems distributors are supported by our regional managers, marketing managers and technical
support groups, who train distributor sales and service personnel and participate in customer
calls. Due to the different markets and end use customers for dental as compared to medical
imaging systems, dental products are distributed by a separate network of dental dealers who target
the dental practitioners market. In addition we do some private label manufacturing of dental
product for certain OEM customers.

Technical support in the selection, use and maintenance of our products is provided to
distributors and professionals by customer service representatives. We also maintain telephone
hotlines to provide technical assistance to distributors and professionals during regular business
hours. Additional product and distributor support is provided through participation in medical
equipment exhibitions and trade advertising.

We typically exhibit our products at annual conferences, including the Radiological Society of
North American Conference in Chicago (RSNA), the MEDICA Medical Conference in Dusseldorf, Germany,
the European College of Radiology Conference in Vienna, Austria (ECR), and the International Dental
Show (IDS) in Cologne, Germany and other venues worldwide. Sales of the Company s products in
North America are typically on open account with 30 day terms. Our products are sold worldwide and
payment is therefore secured by letter of credit to mitigate any potential credit risk, with longer
terms being given to non-US customers as is customary in international business. Our Company has
also the capacity to participate in and win large international tenders, which require careful
assessment of the commercial aspects, regulatory requirements, production planning and financial
exposure. Multi-million tenders have been awarded to our Villa operation in the last two fiscal
years in countries, including Mexico, Lithuania, Romania, Russia and Vietnam.

RAW MATERIALS AND PRINCIPAL SUPPLIERS: The Medical Systems Group in most cases uses two or
more alternative sources of supply for each of its raw materials, which consist primarily of
mechanical subassemblies, electronic components, x-ray tubes and x-ray generators. In certain
instances, however, the Medical Systems Group will use a single source of supply when directed by a
customer or by need. In order to ensure the consistent quality of the Medical System Group s
products, the Company follows strict supplier evaluation and qualification procedures, and where
possible, enters into strategic partnerships with its suppliers to assure a continuing supply of
high quality critical components.

With respect to those items which are purchased from single sources, we believe that
comparable items would be available in the event that there was a termination of our existing
business relationships with any such supplier. Actual experience could differ materially from this
belief as a result of a number of factors, including the time required to locate an alternate
source for the material.

The majority of the Medical System Group s raw materials are purchased on open account from
vendors pursuant to various individual or blanket purchase orders. Procurement lead times are such
that the Company is not required to hold significant amounts of inventory in order to meet customer
demand. The Company believes its sources of supply for the Medical Systems Group are adequate to
meet its needs.

5 

Table of Contents   

COMPETITION: Based on industry data, we believe our Medical Systems Group is either the number
one or number two supplier, measured by market share, to the independent distributors of
radiographic equipment in North America. Our Medical Systems Group competes in two major segments
of the highly competitive, world-wide conventional radiographic and R/F products marketplace. Our
top-tier conventional radiographic products are sold through national, regional and independent
distributors. In 2006, the Medical Systems Group extended its access to the US market by entering
into relationships with a national Group Purchasing Organization and several smaller multi-hospital
networks. The three major competitors in this market segment are GE Healthcare Systems, a division
of General Electric Company, Siemens Medical Solutions, a division of Siemens AG and Philips
Medical Systems, a division of Philips Electronics N.V. and they compete with us on customer
support, features and breadth of product offerings. These larger competitors primarily sell
directly to large hospitals and teaching institutions and sell a broader range of products designed
to outfit a hospital s entire imaging requirements. In Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Far
East, competition is also represented by other mid-tier European companies, as well as local
manufacturers who mainly address the low market tier.

Our lower-tier conventional radiographic products principally compete with several small
companies based primarily in the US and Europe. In some price-driven markets, we also find
competition from Korean, Japanese and Chinese products. Most of these companies sell through
independent distributors and compete with us primarily on price, quality and performance. We
believe that we can be differentiated from our competitors based on our combination of price,
quality and performance, together with the strength and breadth of our independent distribution
network, and the variety of our product portfolio.

The markets for our products are highly competitive and subject to technological change and
evolving industry requirements and standards. Cost containment and pricing is also a critical
driving factor, given the threat that is being posed by the aggressive policies of Korean and
Chinese manufacturers attempting to capture market shares out of their boundaries. Price erosion
is not only a factor in the low-end tier, but also at top level, where all companies, including the
large multinationals, such as GE, Philips and Siemens are driving down their prices.We believe that
these trends will continue into the foreseeable future. Some of our current and potential
competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. As a
result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in
customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products
than we can. Competition could increase if new companies enter the market or if existing
competitors expand their product lines or intensify efforts within existing product lines. Although
we believe that our products are more cost-effective than those of our primary competitors, certain
competing products may have other advantages which may limit our market. There can be no assurance
that continuing improvements in current or new competing products will not make them technically
equivalent or superior to our products in addition to providing cost or other advantages. There can
be no assurance that our current products, products under development or ability to introduce new
products will enable us to compete effectively.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT: It is generally accepted that digital radiography will become the
dominant technology used in hospitals and imaging clinics throughout the world over the next 10 to
15 years. Currently, there are a number of competing technologies available in connection with the
digitization of x-ray images. In addition, there are substantial hurdles which need to be addressed
in terms of transitioning radiology practices from the current analog environment to a digital
environment. These ancillary issues include image storage and retrieval and record keeping.
However, due to the high cost of this technology, many institutions have not yet adopted digital
technology. In addition, there is uncertainty as to which technology will be accepted as the
industry-standard for image capture, digitization and communication.

For the medical imaging market, we currently have two digital radiographic solutions and are
committed to expanding our selection to include a wider range of low-cost offerings for customers.
While many of our competitors have invested heavily into developing a digital detector, we have
chosen to align with technology leaders who have already made digital investments and could benefit
from our X-Ray platform design, our systems integration capabilities and our worldwide dealer
network. This strategy also accelerates our time-to-market with new digital solutions and avoids
the significant development costs being incurred by our competitors.

Consequently, our current research and development spending is focused on both enhancing our
existing conventional radiographic products and continuing to enhance our digital radiographic
solutions and explore partnerships with strategic vendors in the digital marketplace. The
introduction of digital imaging is growing much faster in dental application where the cost
difference between traditional and digital does not represent a significant barrier. In order to
more fully participate in the digital dental market, Villa has initiated a strategic partnership
with a French Company, Owandy, that provides the digital solutions for dental panoramic units and
Villa is offering a full line of digital panoramic units.

6 

Table of Contents   

Spending for research and development for our Medical Systems Group was approximately $1.6
million each year, during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004

TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS: The majority of the Medical System Group s products are based on
technology that is not protected by patent or other rights. Within the Medical System Group,
certain of our products and brand names are protected by trademarks, both in the US and
internationally. Because we do not have patent rights in our products, our technology may not
preclude or inhibit competitors from producing products that have identical performance as our
products. Our future success is dependent primarily on the technological expertise and management
abilities of our employees and the strength of our relationship with our worldwide dealer network.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION: Our medical imaging systems are medical devices and, therefore, are
subject to regulation by the US Food and Drug Administration (the  FDA ) and to regulation by
foreign governmental authorities. We also are subject to state and local regulation. Regulatory
requirements include registration as a manufacturer, compliance with established manufacturing
practices, procedures and quality standards, strict requirements dealing with the safety,
effectiveness and other properties of the products, conformance with applicable industry standards,
product traceability, adverse event reporting, distribution, record keeping, reporting, compliance
with advertising and packaging standards, labeling, and radiation emitting qualities of these
products. Failure to comply can result in, among other things, the imposition of fines, criminal
prosecution, recall and seizure of products, injunctions restricting or precluding production or
distribution, the denial of new product approvals and the withdrawal of existing product approvals.

FDA S PRE-MARKET CLEARANCE AND APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS

In the US, medical devices are classified into three different categories over which the FDA
applies increasing levels of regulation: Class I, Class II, and Class III. DMI manufactures several
Class I and Class II devices. Before a new Class II device can be introduced into the US market,
the manufacturer must obtain FDA clearance or approval through either premarket notification under
Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or a premarket approval under Section
515 of that Act, unless the product is otherwise exempt from the requirements.

A Section 510(k) premarket notification must contain information supporting the claim of
substantial equivalence, which may include laboratory results and product comparisons to existing
devices. Following submission of a 510(k) application, a manufacturer may not market the device
until the FDA finds the product is substantially equivalent for a specific or general intended use.
FDA 510(k) clearance generally takes 90 days and may take longer if FDA requests additional
information. There is no assurance the FDA will ultimately grant a clearance. The FDA may determine
that a device is not substantially equivalent and may require submission and approval of a
premarket approval application, or require further information before it is able to make a
determination regarding substantial equivalence.

After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification made to the device requires the
manufacturer to determine whether the modification could significantly affect its safety or
effectiveness. If it does not, the manufacturer s decision must be documented. If the modification
could significantly affect the device s safety and effectiveness, then the modification requires at
least a new 510(k) clearance or, in some instances, could require a premarket approval. The FDA
requires each manufacturer to make this determination, but the FDA can review any manufacturer s
decision. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer s decision, the agency may retroactively require
the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or premarket approval. The FDA also can require the
manufacturer to cease marketing the modified device or recall the modified device (or both) until
510(k) clearance or premarket approval is obtained. We have made minor modifications to our
products and, using the guidelines established by the FDA, have determined that these modifications
do not require us to file new 510(k) submissions. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, we
may not be able to sell one or more of our products until the FDA have cleared new 510(k)
submissions for these modifications.

All of our products marketed in the US have met the appropriate FDA requirements for
marketing, either because they were exempt from submission or through 510(k) clearance. We
continuously evaluate our products for any required new submission for changes or modifications.

7 

Table of Contents   

PERVASIVE AND CONTINUING FDA REGULATION

Numerous FDA regulatory requirements apply to our products as well as to components
manufactured by some of our suppliers. These requirements include:

The FDA s quality system regulation which requires manufacturers to create, implement and
follow numerous design, testing, control, documentation and other quality procedures; and 

Medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA
certain types of adverse and other events involving their products. 

Class II devices may also be subject to special controls, such as performance standards,
post-market surveillance, patient registries and FDA guidelines that may not apply to Class I
devices. Our products are currently subject to FDA guidelines for 510(k) cleared devices and are
not subject to any other form of special controls. We believe we are in compliance with the
applicable FDA guidelines, but we could be required to change our compliance activities or be
subject to other special controls if the FDA changes its existing regulations or adopts new
requirements.

We and some of our suppliers are subject to inspection and market surveillance by the FDA to
determine compliance with regulatory requirements. If the FDA finds that either we or a supplier
have failed to adequately comply, the agency can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions,
ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: fines, injunctions and civil
penalties; recall or seizure of our products; the imposition of operating restrictions, partial
suspension or total shutdown of production; the refusal of our requests for 510(k) clearance or
premarket approval of new products; the withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or premarket approval
already granted; and criminal prosecution.

The FDA also has the authority to require repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any
medical device manufactured or distributed by us. Our failure to comply with applicable
requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.

OTHER FEDERAL AND STATE REGULATIONS

As a participant in the health care industry, we are subject to extensive and frequently
changing regulation under many other laws administered by governmental entities at the federal,
state and local levels, some of which are, and others of which may be, applicable to our business.
For example, our Del Medical Imaging facility is also licensed as a medical product manufacturing
site by the state of Illinois and is subject to periodic state regulatory inspections. Our health
care service provider customers are also subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that
could affect the nature and scope of their relationships with us.

FOREIGN GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Our products are also regulated outside the US as medical devices by foreign governmental
agencies, similar to the FDA, and are subject to regulatory requirements, similar to the FDA s, in
the countries in which we plan to sell our products. We work with our foreign distributors to
obtain the foreign regulatory approvals necessary to market our products outside of the US. In
certain foreign markets, it is necessary to obtain ISO 9001 certification, which is analogous to
compliance with the FDA s Good Manufacturing Practices requirements. It is also necessary to obtain
ISO 13485 certification, which specifies requirements for a quality system to be used for design
and development, production, installation and servicing of medical devices. We have obtained ISO
9001 certification and ISO 13485 certification, for both of our medical systems manufacturing
facilities. In many European Community and other international locations it is necessary or
desirable to have a  CE  (Communities of Europe) mark on our products. This involves substantial
testing by a third party such as UL or ETL and for some devices, a certificate from a notified body
declaring conformance to applicable directives and regulations. We have completed the necessary
third party testing at both manufacturing locations, maintain the necessary certifications and are
qualified to place the CE mark on all products intended for sale in such countries. The time and
cost required to obtain market authorization from other countries and the requirements for
licensing a product in another country may differ significantly from FDA requirements.

No assurance can be given that the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies will give the requisite
approvals or clearances for any of our medical imaging systems and other products under development
on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, after clearance is given, both in the case of our existing
products and any future products, these agencies can later withdraw the clearance or require us to
change the system or our manufacturing process or labeling, to supply additional proof of its
safety and effectiveness, or to withdraw, recall, repair, replace or refund the cost of the medical
system, if it is shown to be hazardous or defective.

8 

Table of Contents   

POWER CONVERSION GROUP   CONTINUING OPERATIONS

Our Power Conversion Group designs, manufactures, markets and sells high voltage precision
components and sub-assemblies and electronic noise suppression components for a variety of
applications. These products are utilized by original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ) who build
systems that are used in a broad range of markets. Our products are sold under the following
industry brands: RFI, Filtron, Sprague and Stanley. This segment is comprised of Electronic Systems
and Components.

This segment designs and manufactures key electronic components such as transformers, noise
suppression filters and high voltage capacitors for use in precision regulated high voltage
applications. Noise suppression filters and components are used to help isolate and reduce the
electromagnetic interference (commonly referred to as  noise ) among the different components in a
system sharing the same power source. Examples of systems that use our noise suppression products
include aviation electronics, mobile and land-based telecommunication systems and missile guidance
systems.

The Power Conversion Group provides subsystems and components which are used in the
manufacture of products for security, medical, military and industrial applications as follows:

POWER CONVERSION GROUP MARKETS SERVED

MILITARY

INDUSTRIAL 

Guidance   Weapons Systems

Induction Heating 

Communications

Automotive 

Capital Equipment 

COMMERCIAL

Power Systems

MEDICAL 

Telecommunications

Radiation Oncology 

Satellite

Magnetic Resonance 

Meteorological

Imaging ( MRI ) 

PRODUCTS

MILITARY APPLICATIONS   Through our relationships with many of the federal government s top
defense suppliers, such as Raytheon, Boeing, Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman, we supply
electronic components for various classified and unclassified programs including radar systems,
guidance systems, weapons systems and communication electronics.

INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS   Our high voltage power components and EMI filters are used in many
leading-edge high technology scientific and industrial applications by OEMs, universities and
private research laboratories. Some industrial applications using high voltage subsystems include
DNA sequencing, molecular analysis, printed circuit board inspection, structural inspection, food
and mail sterilization and semiconductor capital equipment.

MARKETING, SALES AND DISTRIBUTION: We market our Power Conversion Group products through
in-house sales personnel, independent sales representatives in the US, and international agents in
Europe, Asia, the Middle East, Canada and Australia. Our sales representatives are compensated
primarily on a commission basis and the international agents are compensated either on a commission
basis or act as independent distributors. Our marketing efforts emphasize our ability to custom
engineer products to optimal performance specifications. We emphasize team selling where our sales
representatives, engineers and management personnel all work together to market our products. We
also market our products through catalogs and trade journals and participation in industry shows.
Sales of the Company s products are typically on open account with 30 day terms. New accounts are
established with cash on delivery or cash in advance terms.

9 

Table of Contents   

RAW MATERIALS AND PRINCIPAL SUPPLIERS: The Power Conversion Group in most cases uses two or
more alternative sources of supply for each of its raw materials, which consist primarily of
electronic components and subassemblies, metal enclosures for its products and certain other
materials. In certain instances, however, the Power Conversion Group will use a single source of
supply when directed by a customer or by need. In order to ensure the consistent quality of the
Power Conversion Group s products, the Company performs certain supplier evaluation and
qualification procedures, and where possible, enters into strategic partnerships with its suppliers
to assure a continuing supply of high quality critical components.

With respect to those items which are purchased from single sources, we believe that
comparable items would be available in the event that there was a termination of our existing
business relationships with any such supplier. Actual experience could differ materially from this
belief as a result of a number of factors, including the time required to locate an alternate
source for the material.

The majority of the Power Conversion Group s raw materials are purchased on open account from
vendors pursuant to various individual or blanket purchase orders. Procurement lead times are such
that the Company is not required to hold significant amounts of inventory in order to meet customer
demand. The Company believes its sources of supply for the Power Conversion Group are adequate to
meet its needs

COMPETITION: Our Power Conversion Group competes with several small, privately owned suppliers
of electronic systems and components. From our perspective, competition is primarily based on each
company s design, service and technical capabilities, and secondarily on price. Excluding the OEMs
that manufacture their own components, based on market intelligence we have gathered, we believe
that we are among the top two or three in market share in supplying these products.

The markets for our products are subject to limited technological changes and gradually
evolving industry requirements and standards. We believe that these trends will continue into the
foreseeable future. Some of our current and potential competitors may have substantially greater
financial, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more
quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater
resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Competition could increase if
new companies enter the market or if existing competitors expand their product lines or intensify
efforts within existing product lines. Although we believe that our products are more
cost-effective than those of our primary competitors, certain competing products may have other
advantages which may limit our market. There can be no assurance that continuing improvements in
current or new products will not make them technically equivalent or superior to our products in
addition to providing cost or other advantages. There can be no assurance that our current
products, products under development or our ability to introduce new products will enable us to
compete effectively.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT: We have a well developed engineering and technical staff in our Power
Conversion Group. Our technical and scientific employees are generally employed in the engineering
departments at our RFI business unit, and split their time, depending on business mix and their own
technical background, between supporting existing production and development and research efforts
for new product variations or new customer specifications. Our products include transformers, noise
suppression filters and high voltage capacitors for use in precision regulated high voltage
applications. Noise suppression filters and components are used to help isolate and reduce the
electromagnetic interference (commonly referred to as  noise ) among the different components in a
system sharing the same power source. Examples of systems that use our noise suppression products
include aviation electronics, mobile and land-based telecommunication systems and missile guidance
systems. No significant engineering related time was charged to research and development spending
for the continuing operations of the Power Conversion Group in fiscal years 2006, 2005 or 2004.
These time allocations were minimal because our technical and scientific employees were focused on
reshaping our production and quality practices at our Bayshore plant.

TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS:

The majority of the Power Conversion Group s products are based on technology that is not
protected by patent or other rights. Within the Power Conversion Group, certain of our products and
brand names are protected by trademarks, both in the US and internationally. Our future success is
dependent primarily on the technological expertise and management abilities of our employees.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION:

We are subject to various US government guidelines and regulations relating to the
qualification of our non-medical products for inclusion in government-qualified product lists in
order to be eligible to receive purchase orders from a government agency or for inclusion of a
product in a system which will ultimately be used by a governmental agency. We have had many years
of experience in designing, testing and qualifying our products for sale to governmental agencies.
Certain government contracts are subject to

10 

Table of Contents   

cancellation rights at the Government s election. We have experienced no material termination
of any government contract and are not aware of any pending terminations of government contracts.

DISCONTINUED OPERATION:

As of July 31, 2004, the DHV division was classified as a discontinued operation. This
division manufactured and sold high voltage power systems, primarily for security, medical,
scientific, military and industrial OEM applications. The results of this operation are segregated
on the accompanying financial statements as income or loss from discontinued operation. See Note 3
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual
Report.

SEASONALITY

Revenue in both operating segments is typically lower during the first quarter of each fiscal
year due to the shutdown of operations in our Milan, Italy (Medical Systems Group) and Bayshore,
New York (Power Conversion Group) facilities for part of August as a result of both vacation
schedules and year-end physical inventories.

BACKLOG

Consolidated backlog at July 29, 2006 was $22.4 million versus backlog at July 30, 2005 of
approximately $14.6 million. The backlog in the Power Conversion Group of $6.3 million increased
$0.2 million from levels at beginning of the fiscal year while there was a $7.5 million increase in
the backlog at our Medical Systems Segment. Backlog in the Medical Systems Segment of $16.0 million
reflects increases of $0.1 million at our domestic location and $7.4 million at our international
location due to increased bookings during the fiscal 2006 period. Substantially all of the backlog
should result in shipments within the next 12 months.

GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

For further information about Geographic areas the Company operates in as well as other
Segment related disclosures refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.

ITEM 1A

RISK FACTORS

Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the
other information contained in this Annual Report, in evaluating the Company and its business
before purchasing our securities. In particular, prospective investors should note that this Annual
Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that actual results
could differ materially from those contemplated by such statements. The factors listed below
represent certain important factors which we believe could cause such results to differ. These
factors are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may
affect us. It should be recognized that other risks may be significant, presently or in the future,
and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated.

THE COMPANY HAS SUBMITTED A PROPOSAL TO SHAREHOLDERS TO AMEND THE COMPANY S CERTIFICATE OF
INCORPORATION TO INCREASE THE COMMON SHARES AUTHORIZED FROM 20,000,000 SHARES TO 50,000,000 SHARES.

The Company has scheduled a Special Meeting of Shareholders on November 17, 2006 to vote on a
proposal to increase the authorized number of shares of Common Stock from 20,000,000 to
50,000,000 shares in order to have a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to provide a
reserve of shares available for issuance to meet business needs as they may arise in the
future. Such business needs may include, without limitation, rights offerings, financings,
acquisitions, establishing strategic relationships with corporate partners, providing equity
incentives to employees, officers or directors, stock splits or similar transactions. Issuances
of any additional shares for these or other reasons could prove dilutive to current shareholders or
deter changes in control of the Company, including transactions where the shareholders could
otherwise receive a premium for there shares over then current market prices.

11 

Table of Contents   

THE COMPANYS WORKING CAPITAL NEEDS ARE FINANCED IN PART BY CREDIT FACILITIES WITH U.S. AND ITALIAN
BANKS. THE COMPANY HAS NEEDED TO OBTAIN WAIVERS FROM ITS U.S. LENDERS FOR COVENANT VIOLATIONS FOR
THE PAST FOUR QUARTERS DUE TO LESS THAN ANTICIPATED OPERATING RESULTS.

On October 25, 2006 the Company and its U.S. Lender signed an amendment to its U.S. revolving
credit and term loan credit facility which waived covenant violations existing as of July 29. 2006
and adjusted the financial covenants for future periods based on a business plan the Company
provided to its lender. Should the Company s results be less that anticipated in the business
plan, the Company could have future covenant violations. If the Company and its lender were unable
to cure the violations by signing a waiver agreement, or through other means, the Company could be
in default under the credit agreement and the bank would have the ability to stop revolving credit
borrowings under the facility and accelerate the maturity of any outstanding balances. If
additional sources of debt or equity capital were not available at that point, such acceleration
could have a material adverse impact on the Company s financial position.

OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN DELISTED FROM THE NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET AND WE CANNOT PREDICT WHEN OR IF
EVER IT WILL BE LISTED ON ANY NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGE.

Due to our past failure to comply with the United States Securities Laws, our common stock was
suspended from trading on the NASDAQ National Market in December 2000. Current pricing information
on our common stock has been available in the  pink sheets  published by National Quotation Bureau,
LLC. The  pink sheets  is an over-the-counter market which generally provides significantly less
liquidity than established stock exchanges or the NASDAQ National Market, and quotes for stocks
included in the  pink sheets  are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers. Therefore,
prices for securities traded solely in the  pink sheets  may be difficult to obtain, and
shareholders may find it difficult to resell their shares. In order to be re-listed, we will need
to meet certain listing requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet such
listing requirements.

FAILURE BY US TO ADHERE TO OUR ADMINISTRATIVE AGREEMENT WITH THE DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY COULD
RESULT IN OUR DEBARMENT FROM DOING BUSINESS WITH THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.

On April 5, 2005, the Company announced that it had reached an administrative agreement with
the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency (the  DLA ), a component of the US Department of Defense (the
 DOD ), which provides that RFI will not be debarred from doing business with the U.S. Government
entities as long as RFI maintains its compliance program and adheres to the terms of the
administrative agreement. If RFI fails to maintain its compliance program or RFI or the Company
fails to adhere to the terms of the administrative agreement, the DLA could debar the Company from
doing business with U.S. Government entities.

OUR BUSINESS IS BASED ON TECHNOLOGY THAT IS NOT PROTECTED BY PATENT OR OTHER RIGHTS.

The technology and designs underlying our products are unprotected by patent rights. Our
future success is dependent primarily on unpatented trade secrets and on the innovative skills,
technological expertise and management abilities of our employees. Because we do not have patent
rights in our products, our technology may not preclude or inhibit competitors from producing
products that have identical performance as our products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any
protected trade secret could ultimately be proven valid if challenged. Any such challenge, with or
without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management s
attention and resources and, if successful, require us to pay monetary damages.

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY.

A number of foreign and domestic companies have developed, or are expected to develop,
products that compete or will compete with our products. Many of these competitors offer a range of
products in areas other than those in which we compete, which may make such competitors more
attractive to hospitals, radiology clients, general purchasing organizations and other potential
customers. In addition, many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have
greater financial resources than we do and offer a range of products broader than our products.
Some of the companies with which we now compete or may compete in the future have or may have more
extensive research, marketing and manufacturing capabilities and significantly greater technical
and personnel resources than we do, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their
technology in order to compete in an evolving industry.

12 

Table of Contents   

OUR DELAY OR INABILITY TO OBTAIN ANY NECESSARY US OR FOREIGN REGULATORY CLEARANCES OR APPROVALS FOR
OUR PRODUCTS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS.

Our medical imaging products, with the exception of certain veterinary lines, are the subject
of a high level of regulatory oversight. Any delay in our obtaining or our inability to obtain any
necessary US or foreign regulatory approvals for new products could harm our business and
prospects. There is a limited risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be
withdrawn or modified which could create delays in shipping our product, pending re-approval.
Medical devices cannot be marketed in the US without clearance or approval by the FDA. Our Medical
Systems Group businesses must be operated in compliance with FDA Good Manufacturing Practices,
which regulate the design, manufacture, packing, storage and installation of medical devices. Our
manufacturing facilities and business practices are subject to periodic regulatory audits and
quality certifications and we do self audits to monitor our compliance. In general, corrective
actions required as a result of these audits do not have a significant impact on our manufacturing
operations; however there is a limited risk that delays caused by a potential response to extensive
corrective actions could impact our operations. Virtually all of our products manufactured or sold
overseas are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. If
we do not obtain these approvals, we could be precluded from selling our products or required to
make modifications to our products which could delay bringing our products to market. Because our
US products lines are mature, new product changes are in general relatively minor, and accordingly
regulatory approval is more streamlined.

WE MUST RAPIDLY DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS IN ORDER TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY.

Technology in our industry, particularly in the x-ray and medical imaging businesses, evolves
rapidly, and making timely product innovations is essential to our success in the marketplace. The
introduction by our competitors of products with improved technologies or features may render our
existing products obsolete and unmarketable. If we cannot develop products in a timely manner in
response to industry changes, or if our products do not perform well, our business and financial
condition will be adversely affected. Also, our new products may contain defects or errors which
give rise to product liability claims against us or cause the products to fail to gain market
acceptance.

It is generally accepted that digital radiography will become the dominant technology used in
hospitals and imaging clinics throughout the world over the next 10 to 15 years. Currently, there
are a number of competing technologies available in connection with the digitization of x-ray
images. However, due to the high cost of this technology, many institutions have not yet adopted
digital technology. In addition, there is uncertainty as to which technology system will be
accepted as the industry-leading protocol for image digitization and communication. Lack of an
adequate digital capability could impact our business and result in a loss of market share.

A SHORTAGE OF AN ADEQUATE SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS AND CAUSE A DELAY IN OUR
ABILITY TO SHIP PRODUCT AND FULFILL ORDERS. A LARGE PORTION OF OUR MANUFACTURING COSTS CONSIST OF
THE COST OF MATERIALS AND AN INCREASE IN THESE COSTS COULD ADVERSLY IMPACT OUR GROSS MARGINS.

The Company relies on external sources to supply its raw materials, which consist primarily of
mechanical subassemblies, electronic components, x-ray tubes and x-ray generators in the Medical
Systems Group and electronic components and subassemblies and, metal enclosures for its products in
the Power Conversion Group. The Company s ability to meet future demand and manufacture its
product is dependent on these sources of supply. If disruptions in these sources of supply cause
shortages of raw materials, our ability to ship products to customers will be impacted. In
addition, due to the high material cost component of our manufactured goods, our gross margins
would be adversely impacted by increases in raw material costs we may be unable to pass along to
our customers due to market conditions.

DUE TO THE SIGNIFICANCE OF OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS, POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC CHANGES IN THE
VARIOUS COUNTRIES OR REGIONS WE MANUFACTURE IN OR SELL OUR PRODUCTS TO COULD IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL
CONDITION.

International sales, including product manufactured at our facility in Milan, Italy, as well as
product manufactured in the US, comprised 64% and 54% of consolidated revenues for fiscal years
2006 and 2005, respectively. Our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of
international risks, including unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties in
managing and staffing international operations, political or social unrest; economic instability
or natural disasters; environmental or trade protection measures; changes in governmental or other
entities buying patterns and tender order procedures; changes in other regulatory or certification
requirements. In addition any changes in Italian tax laws including changes in withholding on
dividends from our Italian subsidiary or other restrictions on transfers of funds to the US could
impact our financial condition.

13 

Table of Contents   

WE MUST CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS WITHOUT INFRINGING ON THE PROPRIETARY RIGHTS OF THIRD
PARTIES.

Although we believe our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of
others, there can be no assurance that infringement claims will not be asserted against us in the
future or that, if asserted, any infringement claim will be successfully defended. A successful
claim, or any claim, against us could distract our management s attention from other business
concerns and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

POTENTIAL PAYMENTS REQUIRED UNDER A CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT WITH A FORMER CEO COULD UNDULY
BURDEN OUR COMPANY.

The Company s employment agreement with Samuel E. Park, a former CEO of the Company, provides
for payments upon certain changes of control. The Company s Board of Directors elected at the
Company s Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 29, 2003, had previously reviewed the  change
of control  provisions regarding payments totaling up to approximately $1,800,000 under the
employment agreement between the Company and Mr. Park. As a result of this review and based upon,
among other things, the advice of special counsel, the Company s Board of Directors determined that
no obligation to pay these amounts has been triggered. Prior to his departure from the Company on
October 10, 2003, Mr. Park orally informed the Company that, after reviewing the matter with his
counsel, he believed that the obligation to pay these amounts has been triggered. On October 27,
2003, the Company received a letter from Mr. Park s counsel demanding payment of certain sums and
other consideration pursuant to the Company s employment agreement with Mr. Park, including these
change of control payments. On November 17, 2003, the Company filed a complaint against Mr. Park
seeking a declaratory judgment that no change in control payment was or is due to Mr. Park, and
that an amendment to the employment contract with Mr. Park regarding advancement and reimbursement
of legal fees is invalid and unenforceable. Mr. Park answered the complaint and asserted
counterclaims seeking payment from the Company based on his position that a  change in control 
occurred in June 2003. Mr. Park is also seeking other consideration he believes he is owed under
his employment agreement. The Company filed a reply to Mr. Park s counterclaims denying that he is
entitled to any of these payments. Discovery in this matter was conducted and completed. Following
discovery, the Company and Mr. Park filed motions for summary judgment on the issues related to
change in control and the amendment to the employment agreement, which motions have been fully
submitted to the Court for consideration. To date, no decision has been issued by the Court on
these motions. If Mr. Park prevails on his claims and the payments he seeks are required to be paid
in a lump sum, these payments may have a material adverse effect on the Company s liquidity.

THERE IS A RISK THAT OUR INSURANCE WILL NOT BE SUFFICIENT TO PROTECT US FROM PRODUCT LIABILITY
CLAIMS, OR THAT IN THE FUTURE PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE TO US AT A
REASONABLE COST, IF AT ALL.

Our business involves the risk of product liability claims inherent to the medical device
business. We maintain product liability insurance subject to certain deductibles and exclusions.
There is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect us from product liability
claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at
all. An uninsured or underinsured claim could materially harm our operating results or financial
condition.

WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH HANDLING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS.

Our research and development activity involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, such
as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling
and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local
regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from
these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages,
and such liability could be extensive. We are also subject to substantial regulation relating to
occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste
management and disposal. The failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among
other things, fines and criminal liability.

14 

Table of Contents   

OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED IF OUR PRODUCTS CONTAIN UNDETECTED ERRORS OR DEFECTS OR DO NOT MEET
CUSTOMER SPECIFICATIONS.

We are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. Newly
introduced or upgraded products can contain undetected errors or defects. In addition, these
products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all
applications. If, despite our internal testing and testing by our customers, any of our products
contains errors or defects, or any of our products fails to meet customer specifications, we may be
required to recall or retrofit these products. We may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at
all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. In addition, any significant
reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction and negative publicity and could
harm our business and prospects.

THE SEASONALITY OF OUR REVENUE MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT THE MARKET PRICES FOR OUR SHARES.

Our revenue is typically lower during the first quarter of each fiscal year due to the
shut-down of operations in our Milan, Italy and Bayshore, New York facilities for part of August.
This seasonality causes our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter and these
fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF OUR SHARES WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE SALE AND COULD DEPRESS THE MARKET
PRICE OF OUR STOCK.

As of October 20, 2006, an aggregate of 11,660,524 shares of our common stock were
outstanding. In addition, as of October 20, 2006, there were outstanding warrants to purchase
940,370 shares of our common stock and options to purchase 1,700,996 shares of our common stock,
1,527,243 of which were fully vested. Sales of large amounts of our common stock in the market
could adversely affect the market price of the common stock and could impair our future ability to
raise capital through offerings of our equity securities. A large volume of sales by holders
exercising the warrants or options could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of
our common stock.

WE HAVE A LIMITED TRADING MARKET AND OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE.

There is a limited public trading market for our common stock in the  pink sheets.  We cannot
assure you that a regular trading market for our common stock will ever develop or that, if
developed, it will be sustained.

The experiences of other small companies indicate that the market price for our common stock
could be highly volatile. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to
fluctuate substantially, including:

future announcements concerning us, our competitors or other companies with whom we have business relationships; 

changes in government regulations applicable to our business; 

overall volatility of the stock market and general economic conditions; 

changes in our earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts; and 

changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. 

Accordingly, substantial fluctuations in the price of our common stock could limit the ability
of our current shareholders to sell their shares at a favorable price.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

Not applicable

15 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The following is a list of our principal properties, classified by segment and subsidiary:

APPROX.  

FLOOR  

OWNED/LEASED  

AREA IN  

(EXPIRATION  

SEGMENT  
       
      LOCATION  
       
      SQ. FT.  
       
      PRINCIPAL USES  
       
      DATE IF LEASED)  

MEDICAL SYSTEMS GROUP:

Del Medical Imaging Corp

Franklin Park, IL

68,000 

Corporate headquarters, Design and manufacturing

Leased (2008) 

Villa

Milan, Italy

67,000 

Design and manufacturing

Leased (2011)(1) 

CORPORATE

Valhalla, NY

4,188 

Corporate offices

Leased (2006)(2) 

POWER CONVERSION GROUP:

RFI

Bayshore, NY

55,000 

Design and manufacturing

Owned 

(1) 
       
     Villa has the option to purchase this property at the conclusion of this lease. 

(2) 
       
     The current lease expired September 30, 2006, at which time the Corporate offices moved to
the Franklin Park, IL facility. 

We believe that our current facilities are sufficient for our present and anticipated future
requirements. The Company s manufacturing operations run on one shift and we have the ability to
add a second shift, if needed. The Company s domestic credit facilities are secured, in part, by a
mortgage on RFI s property.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

EMPLOYMENT MATTERS   The Company had an employment agreement with Samuel Park, the previous Chief
Executive Officer ( CEO ), for the period May 1, 2001 to April 30, 2004. The employment agreement
provided for certain payments in the event of a change in the control of the Company.

On October 10, 2003, the Company announced the appointment of Walter F. Schneider as President and
CEO to replace Mr. Park, effective as of such date. As a result, the Company recorded a charge of
$0.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2004 to accrue the balance remaining under Mr.
Park s employment agreement.

In addition, the Company s Board of Directors elected at the Company s Annual Meeting of
Shareholders held on May 29, 2003 had previously reviewed the  change of control  provisions
regarding payments totaling up to approximately $1.8 million under the employment agreement between
the Company and Mr. Park. As a result of this review and based upon, among other things, the advice
of special counsel, the Company s Board of Directors determined that no obligation to pay these
amounts has been triggered. Prior to his departure from the Company on October 10, 2003, Mr. Park
orally informed the Company that, after reviewing the matter with his counsel, he believed that the
obligation to pay these amounts has been triggered. On October 27, 2003, the Company received a
letter from Mr. Park s counsel demanding payment of certain sums and other consideration pursuant
to the Company s employment agreement with Mr. Park, including these change of control payments. On
November 17, 2003, the Company filed a complaint in the United States District Court, Southern
District of New York against Mr. Park seeking a declaratory judgment that no change in control
payment was or is due to Mr. Park, and that an amendment to the employment contract with Mr. Park
regarding advancement and reimbursement of legal fees is invalid and unenforceable. Mr. Park
answered the complaint and asserted counterclaims seeking payment from the Company based on his
position that a  change in control  occurred in June 2003. Mr. Park is also seeking other
consideration he believes he is owed under his employment agreement. The Company filed a reply to
Mr. Park s counterclaims denying that he is entitled to any of these payments. Discovery in this
matter was conducted and completed. Following discovery, the Company and Mr. Park filed motions for
summary judgment on the issues related to the change in control and the amendment to the employment
agreement, which motions have been fully submitted to the court for consideration. To date, no
decision has been issued by the court on these motions. If Mr. Park prevails on his claims and the
payments he seeks are required to be paid in a lump sum,

16 

Table of Contents   

these payments may have a material adverse
effect on the Company s liquidity. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these claims.
However, the Company s Board of Directors does not believe that such a claim is reasonably likely
to result in a material decrease in the Company s liquidity in the foreseeable future.

On June 28, 2002, Jeffrey N. Moeller, the former Director of Quality Assurance and Regulatory
Affairs of Del Medical,
commenced an action in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, against the Company, Del
Medical and Walter Schneider, the former President of Del Medical. In the most current iteration
of this pleading, the third amended complaint, Mr. Moeller alleges four claims against the
defendants in the action: (1) retaliatory discharge from employment with Del Medical, allegedly in
response to Mr. Moeller s complaints to officers of Del Medical about purported prebilling and his
stopping shipment of a product that allegedly did not meet regulatory standards, (2) defamation,
(3) intentional interference with his employment relationship with Del Medical and prospective
employers, and (4) to hold the Company liable for any misconduct of Del Medical under a theory of
piercing the corporate veil. On September 13, 2006, the Court heard oral argument on defendants 
motion requesting summary judgment dismissing the third-amended complaint. Defendants  request for
summary judgment dismissing the entirety of the third-amended complaint was not granted, and a jury
trial of the action is scheduled to commence on November 13, 2006. The Company and Del Medical
intend to defend vigorously against Mr. Moeller s claims. Mr. Moeller is seeking $1,931,401 in
damages consisting of income loss, including salary and benefits, and the present value of his lost
income and benefits in the future after lump sum tax adjustments.

OTHER LEGAL MATTERS   The Company is a defendant in several other legal actions in various US and
foreign jurisdictions arising from the normal course of business. Management believes the Company
has meritorious defenses to such actions and that the outcomes will not be material to the
Company s consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

At the Company s Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 13, 2006 (the  Annual Meeting ),
the Company s stockholders elected the following five directors to the Company s Board of
Directors: James R. Henderson, Gerald M. Czarnecki, James A. Risher, General Merrill A. McPeak and
Walter F. Schneider.

The votes cast for all nominees were as follows:

The votes cast for and against, and abstentions as to, the ratification of the appointment of BDO
Seidman, LLP as the Company s independent public accountants for the fiscal year ending July 29,
2006 were as follows:

FOR    10,884,739       AGAINST    145,219       ABSTAIN   19,528

17 

Table of Contents   

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

Our common stock was suspended from trading on the NASDAQ National Market on December 19, 2000
because we had not filed an annual report for the year ended July 29, 2000 within the SEC s
prescribed time period. In December 2000, the NASDAQ National Market delisted our common stock and
since that time, our common stock has been traded on the  pink sheets,  or over-the-counter market,
under the symbol  DGTC.PK  and our warrants are traded under the symbol  DGTCW.PK . The  pink
sheets  is an over-the-counter market which provides significantly less liquidity than established
stock exchanges or the NASDAQ National Market, and quotes for stocks included in the  pink sheets 
are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for established stock exchanges
and the NASDAQ National Market.

The Company has scheduled a Special Meeting of Shareholders on November 17, 2006 to vote on a
proposal to increase the authorized number of shares of Common Stock from 20,000,000 to
50,000,000 shares in order to have a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to provide a
reserve of shares available for issuance to meet business needs as they may arise in the
future. Such business needs may include, without limitation, rights offerings, financings,
acquisitions, establishing strategic relationships with corporate partners, providing equity
incentive to employees, officers or directors, stock splits or similar transactions. Issuances
of any additional shares for these or other reasons could prove dilutive to current shareholders or
deter changes in control of the Company, including transactions where the shareholders could
otherwise receive a premium for there shares over then current market prices.

As of October 20, 2006, there were approximately 990 holders of record of our common stock.
The following table shows the high and low closing bid prices per share of our common stock for the
past eight quarters, as reported by the over the counter market. The over-the-counter market
quotations listed below reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark down or
commission and may not represent actual transactions.

We have not paid any cash dividends, except for the payment of cash in lieu of fractional
shares, since 1983. The payment of cash dividends is prohibited under the Credit Facility. We do
not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.

18 

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the securities authorized for issuance under equity
compensation plans as of the end of Fiscal 2006:

Equity Compensation Plan Information 

NUMBER OF  

NUMBER OF  

SECURITIES TO BE  

SECURITIES  

ISSUED UPON  
       
      WEIGHTED-AVERAGE  
       
      REMAINING AVAILABLE  

EXERCISE OF  
       
      EXERCISE PRICE OF  
       
      FOR FUTURE ISSUANCE  

OUTSTANDING  
       
      OUTSTANDING  
       
      UNDER EQUITY  

OPTIONS, WARRANTS  
       
      OPTIONS, WARRANTS  
       
      COMPENSATION  

PLAN CATEGORY  
       
      AND RIGHTS  
       
      AND RIGHTS  
       
      PLANS(1)  

Equity compensation plans
approved by security holders:

Stock Option Plan

1,545,996 

$ 
     3.93 

425,002 

Equity compensation plans not
approved by security holders:

Warrants issued in settlement of
class action lawsuit (2)

940,370 

$ 
     1.50 

Not applicable 

(1) 
       
     Excludes securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and
rights. 

(2) 
       
     Pursuant to our class action settlement with our shareholders concerning allegations that
the Company had violated federal Securities laws, we issued 2.5 million shares of our common stock
and one million warrants to purchase our common stock at $2.00 per share. The issuance of these
securities was pursuant to a court order issued in connection with the settlement of this class
action lawsuit in January 2002, and therefore was exempt from the registration requirements of the
Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to Section 3(a) (10) thereof. These warrants were originally set to
expire in March 2008. 

In a motion filed in February 2004, a plaintiff class claimed damages due to Del Global s
failure to timely complete a registration statement for the shares of common stock issuable upon
exercise of these warrants. The class sought damages of $1.25 million together with interest and
costs, and a declaration that $2 million in subordinated notes issued as part of the 2002 class
action settlement were immediately due and payable. In settlement of this matter, Del Global
modified the exercise, or  strike,  price of the warrants issued in 2002 from $2.00 to $1.50 per
share, and extended the expiration date of such warrants by one year to March 28, 2009.

19 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The selected income statement data presented for the fiscal years ended July 29, 2006, July
30, 2005 and July 31, 2004 and the balance sheet data as of July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005 have
been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this form
10-K. The income statement data for the years ended August 2, 2003 and August 3, 2002 and the
balance sheet data as of July 31, 2004, August 2, 2003 and August 3, 2002 have been derived from
audited financial statements not included herein. This selected financial data should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in Part II, Item
8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  thereto and  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

(1) 
       
     Net loss for the year ended July 30, 2004 includes a $9,794 income tax provision related
to the establishment of a deferred tax valuation allowance. In addition, net loss reflects the
accrual of a $3,199 charge related to the DOD investigation of our RFI subsidiary and $454 related
to a motion filed in February 2004 related to the warrants to purchase common stock that were
issued in fiscal year 2002. For more information about these legal charges, see Part I, Item 3
 Legal Proceedings  of this Annual Report. 

(2) 
       
     Net loss for the year ended August 2, 2003 includes approximately $7,967 income tax
provision related to the establishment of a deferred tax valuation allowance. In addition, net loss
reflects the accrual of a $2,347 charge related to an ongoing DOD Investigation of our RFI
subsidiary. For more information about the DOD investigation, see Part I, Item 3, and  Legal
Proceedings  of this Annual Report. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part
II, Item 8,  of this Annual Report. 

20 

Table of Contents   

(3) 
       
     Fiscal 2002 includes $7,713 in litigation settlement costs, principally for finalization
of the settlement of a class action suit and the agreement in principle to settle an SEC
investigation. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this
Annual Report. 

(4) 
       
     Effective August 4, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
( SFAS ) No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  which establishes new accounting and
reporting requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets. Under SFAS No. 142, all goodwill
amortization ceased effective August 4, 2002. Assuming goodwill was not amortized pursuant to SFAS
No. 142, the net loss would have been $11,881 in fiscal 2002. Net loss per basic and diluted share
would have been $1.37 in fiscal 2002. 

21 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

In addition to other information in this Annual Report, this Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are
based on current expectations and the current economic environment. We caution that these
statements are not guarantees of future performance. They involve a number of risks and
uncertainties that are difficult to predict including, but not limited to, our ability to implement
our business plan, retention of management, changing industry and competitive conditions, obtaining
anticipated operating efficiencies, securing necessary capital facilities, favorable determinations
in various legal and regulatory matters, and favorable general economic conditions. Actual results
could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
Important assumptions and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company s filings with
the SEC including the Company s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.

OVERVIEW

The Company is primarily engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of cost-effective
medical and dental diagnostic imaging systems consisting of stationary and portable imaging
systems, radiographic/ fluoroscopic systems, dental imaging systems and digital radiography
systems. The Company also manufactures electronic filters, high voltage capacitors, pulse
modulators, transformers and reactors, and a variety of other products designed for industrial,
medical, military and other commercial applications. We manage our business in two operating
segments: our Medical Systems Group and our Power Conversion Group. In addition, we have a third
reporting segment, Other, comprised of certain unallocated corporate General and Administrative
expenses. See Part I, Item 1,  Business-Operating Segments  of this Annual Report for discussions
of the Company s segments.

On October 1, 2004, we sold the Del High Voltage division, which manufactured proprietary high
voltage power conversion subsystems, for a purchase price of $3.1 million, plus the assumption of
approximately $0.8 million of liabilities. Accordingly, the results of operations have been
restated to show this division as a discontinued operation.

The Company has scheduled a Special Meeting of Shareholders on November 17, 2006 to vote on a
proposal to increase the authorized number of shares of Common Stock from 20,000,000 to
50,000,000 shares in order to have a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to provide a
reserve of shares available for issuance to meet business needs as they may arise in the
future. Such business needs may include, without limitation, rights offerings, financings,
acquisitions, establishing strategic relationships with corporate partners, providing equity
incentives to employees, officers or directors, stock splits or similar transactions. Issuances of
any additional shares for these or other reasons could prove dilutive to current shareholders or
deter changes in control of the Company, including transactions where the shareholders could
otherwise receive a premium for there shares over then current market prices.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Complete descriptions of significant accounting policies are outlined in Note 1 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  of this Annual Report. Within these policies, we have identified the accounting
for deferred tax assets and the allowance for obsolete and excess inventory as being critical
accounting policies due to the significant amount of estimates involved. In addition, for interim
periods, we have identified the valuation of finished goods inventory as being critical due to the
amount of estimates involved.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

The Company recognizes revenue upon shipment, provided there is persuasive evidence of an
arrangement, there are no uncertainties concerning acceptance, the sales price is fixed, collection
of the receivable is probable and only perfunctory obligations related to the arrangement need to
be completed. The Company maintains a sales return allowance, based upon historical patterns, to
cover estimated normal course of business returns, including defective or out of specification
product. The Company s products are

22 

Table of Contents   

covered primarily by one year warranty plans and in some cases optional extended warranties
for up to five years are offered. The Company establishes allowances for warranties on an aggregate
basis for specifically identified, as well as anticipated, warranty claims based on contractual
terms, product conditions and actual warranty experience by product line. The Company recognizes
service revenue when repairs or out of warranty repairs are completed. The Company has an FDA
obligation to continue to provide repair service for certain medical systems for up to seven years
past the warranty period. These repairs are billed to the customers at market rates.

DEFERRED TAXES

We account for deferred income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ( SFAS ) No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes,  whereby we recognize an asset related to
our net operating loss carry forwards and other temporary differences between financial reporting
basis and income tax basis. The valuation of our deferred tax assets and the recognition of tax
benefits in each period assumes future taxable income and profitability. We periodically evaluate
the likelihood of the recoverability of our deferred tax asset recognized, based upon our actual
operating results and expectations of future operating profits.

During fiscal year 2004, as part of our customary six month planning and review cycle,
management updated each domestic business unit s forecast and operating results, and concluded that
it was prudent to record additional valuation allowances, increasing the total valuation allowance
to 100% of both long and short-term US domestic deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance
recorded is the estimate of the amount of deferred tax assets that are more likely than not to be
unrealized by the Company.

During fiscal year 2005, the Company recorded taxable income on a consolidated basis and its
individual domestic business units were profitable. However, after factoring in approximately $4.6
million in unallocated costs of the Other reporting segment which are considered domestic costs for
income tax purposes, the Company experienced a domestic taxable loss during fiscal 2005. The
Company also experienced a domestic net loss for the fiscal 2006. Accordingly, the Company has
concluded that it should continue to carry a 100% valuation allowance against domestic deferred tax
assets and has not recorded any income tax benefit for this domestic taxable loss during fiscal
2006 or fiscal 2005.

We recorded a tax provision with respect to the income of Villa in all periods presented and
anticipate it is more likely than not the remaining deferred tax asset which relates to our Villa
subsidiary will be utilized against future operating profits at our Villa subsidiary. We concluded
that, given our history of receiving dividends from Villa, we could no longer assume the income of
Villa would be permanently reinvested. As required by SFAS 109, we recorded a deferred tax
liability related to the undistributed earnings of Villa. However, we can make no assurances that
our Villa subsidiary will generate profits in the future or that future dividends will be received.

OBSOLETE AND EXCESS INVENTORY

We re-evaluate our allowance for obsolete inventory once a quarter, and this allowance
comprises the most significant portion of our inventory reserves. The re-evaluation of reserves is
based on a written policy, which requires at a minimum that reserves be established based on our
analysis of historical actual usage on a part-by-part basis. In addition, if management learns of
specific obsolescence in addition to this minimum formula, these additional reserves will be
recognized as well. Specific obsolescence might arise due to a technological or market change, or
based on cancellation of an order. As we typically do not purchase inventory substantially in
advance of production requirements, we do not expect cancellation of an order to be a material
risk. However, market or technology changes can occur.

VALUATION OF FINISHED GOODS INVENTORIES

In addition, we use certain estimates in determining interim operating results. The most
significant estimates in interim reporting relate to the valuation of finished goods inventories.
For certain subsidiaries, for interim periods, we estimate the amount of labor and overhead costs
related to finished goods inventories. As of July 29, 2006, finished goods represented
approximately 14% of the gross carrying value of our total gross inventory. We believe the
estimation methodologies used to be appropriate and are consistently applied.

23 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   CONTINUING OPERATIONS

FISCAL 2006 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2005

Consolidated net sales of $83.0 million for fiscal year 2006 decreased by $1.9 million, or
2.2%, from fiscal 2005 net sales of $84.9 million, with decreases at both the Power Conversion
Group and Medical Systems Group. The Medical Systems Group s sales for fiscal 2006 of $70.3
million decreased $0.5 million, or 0.7%, from the prior fiscal year, with increases at our
international location across several product lines, more than offset by decreases at its domestic
location. International sales for the prior fiscal period included shipments of $8.8 million under
an international Romanian tender order. The Power Conversion Group s sales for fiscal 2006 of $12.7
million decreased by $1.4 million, or 9.9%, from the prior year s levels, reflecting catch-ups of
late orders from fiscal 2004 during fiscal 2005 and decreased demands from an OEM customer in
Fiscal 2006 due to a planned move of this production to a customer owned facility.

Consolidated backlog at July 29, 2006, was $22.4 million, compared to backlog at July 30, 2005
of approximately $14.6 million. The backlog in the Power Conversion Group increased $0.2 million
from levels at the beginning of the fiscal year, and there was a $7.5 million increase in the
backlog at our Medical Systems Segment, reflecting increases of $0.9 million at our domestic
location and $7.4 million at our international location due to increased bookings during the fiscal
2006 period. Substantially all of the backlog should result in shipments within the next twelve
months.

Gross margins as a percent of sales were 23.3% in fiscal 2006, compared to 26.3% in fiscal
2005. The Power Conversion Group margins were 35.5% in fiscal 2006 as compared to 41.0% in fiscal
2005 reflecting the $1.4 million decrease in sales volume during the Fiscal 2006 period. For the
Medical Systems Group, fiscal 2006 gross margins of 21.1% were lower than gross margins of 23.3% in
the prior year due to volume reductions at its domestic location and internationally due both to
the effect of product mix and pricing pressure in the Fiscal 2006 period.

Selling, General and Administrative expenses ( SG A ) for fiscal 2006 were $13.6 million
(16.4% of sales) compared to $16.5 million (19.4% of sales) in fiscal 2005. The decrease in SG A
in fiscal 2006 is primarily due to reduced corporate legal and accounting costs of $0.7 million,
and reduced selling costs in both the Power Conversion Group and the Medical Systems Group of $0.6,
as well as due to higher costs in fiscal 2005 related to a review of strategic alternatives of $1.0
million.

Litigation settlement costs of $0.7 million recorded in fiscal 2006 include the accrual of
$0.5 million based on a November 2005 settlement of litigation filed during fiscal 2005 by the
potential buyers of the Company s Medical Systems Group. The Company previously disclosed this
litigation but had not recorded any affiliated expense during fiscal 2005, as it had no basis at
that time upon which to estimate either the outcome or amount of loss. The fiscal 2006 cost also
includes the settlement of two employment actions at our foreign subsidiary totaling $0.2 million
and the reversal of a $0.1 million accrual related to a previously settled litigation. Fiscal 2005
included $0.3 million related to the final settlement of the previously disclosed DOD investigation
of our RFI subsidiary.

As a result of the above, we recognized fiscal 2006 operating income of $3.5 million compared
to operating income of $3.9 million in fiscal 2005. The Medical Systems Group had an operating
profit of $3.6 million in fiscal 2006 and the Power Conversion Group achieved an operating profit
of $2.4 million, offset by unallocated corporate costs of $2.5 million.

Interest expense for fiscal 2006 was slightly lower than the prior year as increased
borrowings and higher interest rates were offset by decreases due to fees incurred in the prior
year in conjunction with modifications to the Company s domestic revolving credit facility. In
addition, the Company s new credit facility entered into on August 1, 2005, eliminated an
unfavorable floor borrowing interest calculation and certain monthly fees that were in effect under
the previous lending facility.

On a consolidated basis, the Company recorded fiscal 2006 pretax income of $2.1 million,
comprised of foreign pretax income of $3.6 million offset by a U.S. pre-tax loss of $1.5 million.
The related fiscal 2006 income tax expense of $1.7 million was primarily due to foreign taxes on
the profits of Villa and includes a provision of $0.4 million in the U.S to provide for deferred
taxes on the undistributed earnings of Villa. During Fiscal 2005 the Company recorded pretax
income of $2.6 million which included foreign pre-tax income of $3.8 million, offset by a U.S.
pretax loss of $1.2 million. The Company has not provided for any income tax benefits related to
the U.S pretax losses in either fiscal 2006 or fiscal 2005 due to uncertainty regarding the
realizability of its U.S. net operating loss carry forwards as explained in Critical Accounting
Policies, above.

As discussed above, Discontinued Operations are related to our DHV division, which was sold on
October 1, 2004. Fiscal 2006 Discontinued Operations reflects the accrual of an estimated
liability of $0.2 million related to a New York State Sales tax audit of its

24 

Table of Contents   

Valhalla location, including the DHV business sold in October 2004. The Discontinued
Operations operating results for fiscal 2005 reflect income from operations of $0.2 million from
the DHV division.

Reflecting the above, we recorded net income of $0.1 million, or $0.01 per share basic and
diluted, in fiscal 2006, as compared to a net income of $0.4 million, or $0.04 per share basic and
$0.03 per share diluted, in fiscal 2005.

FISCAL 2005 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2004

Consolidated net sales of $84.9 million for fiscal year 2005 increased by $1.0 million or 1.2
% from fiscal 2004 net sales of $83.8 million, due to increases at the Power Conversion Group and
consistent year to year sales levels at the Medical Systems Group. The Power Conversion Group s
fiscal 2005 sales of $14.1 million increased by $1.0 million or 7.7% from last year s levels
primarily reflecting manufacturing flow improvements and a decrease in late orders of $0.7 million.
The Medical Systems Group s fiscal 2005 sales of $70.8 million were consistent with the prior
year s as a $1.0 million increase in domestic shipments was offset with a corresponding decrease in
shipments from our international location. Domestic shipments were higher due to increases in sales
of higher priced digital X-ray units. Decreased shipments at international locations were due to
the strong Euro causing pricing for our international products to be less attractive in non-Euro
denominated markets as well as a decrease in larger  tender orders  in fiscal 2005 versus the prior
year. The Company is obtaining international certifications for certain of its domestically
manufactured product in order to have US dollar based offerings in these non-Euro denominated
economies.

Consolidated backlog at July 30, 2005 was $14.6 million versus backlog at July 31, 2004 of
approximately $25.9 million. The backlog in the Power Conversion Group decreased $1.6 million from
levels at beginning of the fiscal year while there was a $9.6 million decrease in the backlog at
our Medical Systems Segment. Backlog in the Medical Systems Segment reflects declines due to
shipments of approximately $8.8 million under a large tender order at our international location as
well as a decrease in incoming order rates during the period. Substantially all of the backlog
should result in shipments within the next 12 months.

Gross margins as a percent of sales were 26.3% for fiscal 2005, compared to 25.4% in fiscal
2004. The Power Conversion Group s gross margins for fiscal 2005 were 41.0%, versus 30.2% in the
prior year. Fiscal 2005 Power Conversion group margins benefited from increased absorption of fixed
costs as a result of higher sales levels, decreased material costs as a percent of sales due to
improved procurement practices and lower waste levels. For the Medical Systems Group, fiscal 2005
gross margins of 23.3% were lower than the 24.5% level in the prior year reflecting higher
engineering costs related to product certifications and the higher material costs affiliated with
the increase in digital unit sales in fiscal 2005.

SG A expenses for fiscal 2005 were $16.5 million (19.4% of sales) compared to $15.9 million
(19.0% of sales) in the prior year s period. The increase in SG A for fiscal 2005 is primarily due
to increased corporate legal and professional costs related to the strategic alternatives program,
partially offset by reduced selling expenses in the Medical Systems Segment. Fiscal 2005 SG A also
includes a $0.5 million write-off of net deferred pension costs associated with the termination of
a frozen Power Conversion Group pension plan. In addition the Power Conversion Group s SG A,
excluding litigation settlement costs in both periods, increased $0.3 million reflecting increased
headcount in fiscal 2005.

During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, we reached an agreement in principal with the U.S.
Government regarding a settlement of the civil and criminal aspects of the previously disclosed DOD
investigation of our RFI subsidiary. The settlement included the Company pleading guilty to one
criminal count and agreeing to pay fines and restitution to the US Government of $5.0 million.

In connection with this settlement, the Company recognized an additional charge for litigation
settlement costs of approximately $3.2 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2004. This charge
represented the difference between the $2.3 million charge taken during the third quarter of fiscal
2003, and the up to $5.0 million in fines and restitution, plus estimated legal and professional
fees, related to this settlement. The fine was paid during the first quarter of fiscal 2005,
subject to Court approval. At the sentencing, which occurred on March 15, 2005, the Court imposed
an additional fine of $0.3 million related to this matter. Accordingly, the Company has recorded an
additional charge for litigation settlement costs of $0.3 million in the second quarter of fiscal
2005. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company recorded a charge of approximately $0.5
million to litigation settlement costs in recognition of the modification of warrants formerly
issued in conjunction with a shareholder settlement and the related legal and professional fees
incurred.

For fiscal 2005, we recognized operating income of $3.9 million compared to operating income
of $0.2 million in fiscal 2004. The Medical Systems Group had an operating profit of $5.6 million
for fiscal 2005 and the Power Conversion Group achieved an operating profit of $2.8 million, partly
offset by unallocated corporate costs of $4.6 million. Fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 operating

25 

Table of Contents   

income was net of $0.3 million and $3.7 million, respectively, of litigation settlement costs,
principally related to the DOD settlement as explained above.

Interest expense for fiscal 2005 was lower than the prior expense due to decreased borrowings
and lower interest rates and the absence of these fees.

The Company has not provided for a U.S. domestic income tax benefit in fiscal 2005 because it
continues to maintain a full valuation allowance relative to its deferred tax assets as discussed
in Critical Accounting Policies, above. With the exception of tax provisions and adjustments
recorded at Villa, our Italian subsidiary, we recorded no adjustments to our current or net
deferred tax accounts during fiscal 2005. Management periodically evaluates the likelihood of the
recoverability of the deferred tax asset recognized on our balance sheet. Based on management
analysis, we believe it is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets, which
relate to our foreign subsidiary will be realized.

Provision for income taxes for fiscal 2004 reflects the establishment of a $7.2 million
deferred tax valuation allowance as discussed in Critical Accounting Policies, above.

As discussed above, the Discontinued Operation is related to our DHV division, which was sold
on October 1, 2004. The discontinued operation in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 reflect the
operations of the DHV division through the date of sale, which recorded income from operations of
$0.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The discontinued operation in fiscal 2004
included a write down of assets to net realizable value of $3.5 million and losses from operations
of $1.6 million

Reflecting the above, we recorded net income of $0.4 million or $0.04 per basic share and
$0.03 per diluted share in fiscal 2005, as compared to a net loss of $15.8 million, or $1.53 per
share (basic and diluted), during fiscal 2004.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

FISCAL 2006 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2005

We fund our investing and working capital needs through a combination of cash flow from
operations and short-term credit facilities.

Working Capital   At July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005, our working capital was approximately
$6.9 million and $10.1 million, respectively. At such dates, we had approximately $0.3 million and
$1.5 million, respectively, in cash and cash equivalents, the majority of which is at our Villa
subsidiary in Italy. As of July 29, 2006, we had approximately $1.0 million of excess borrowing
availability under our domestic revolving credit facility compared to $0.5 million at July 30,
2005. The decrease in ending working capital for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 relates to
the classification of $2.4 million in subordinated notes as a current liability due to its maturity
in March 2007. This working capital decrease was offset by fiscal increases in ending inventory
and accounts receivable at July 29, 2006 due to a $3.3 million increase in fourth quarter revenues
as compared to the prior year s period.

In addition, as of July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005, our Villa subsidiary had an aggregate of
approximately $4.4 million and $7.5 million, respectively, of excess borrowing availability under
its various short-term credit facilities. Terms of the Italian credit facilities do not permit the
use of borrowing availability to directly finance operating activities at our US subsidiaries.

Cash Flows from Operating Activities   For the year ended July 29, 2006, the Company
generated approximately $0.3 million of cash for continuing operations, compared to a use of $7.5
million in the prior fiscal year. Contributing to cash usage in fiscal 2005 was the payment of a
total of $5.1 million in fines and legal fees related to the previously disclosed DOD settlement
that were accrued as of July 30, 2004 and the payment of an additional $0.3 million at time of
sentencing.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities   We have made approximately $0.8 million in facility
improvements and capital equipment expenditures for the year ended July 29, 2006 compared to $0.9
million for the comparable prior fiscal year period. We also used approximately $2.6 million to
fund the cash portion of the purchase of the minority interest in our Italian subsidiary.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities  During the year ended July 29, 2006 the Company
refinanced its domestic credit agreement and borrowed $2.0 million under a term loan. In addition
the Company borrowed a net $0.8 million under revolving credit facilities and received $0.2 million
in payment of the exercise price of stock options. The Company made a total of $1.0 million in
payments of long term debt during fiscal 2006. During the year ended July 30, 2005, we borrowed a
total of approximately $1.6 million on our domestic and Italian credit facilities. In addition, the
Villa subsidiary paid a dividend of approximately $2.5 million, of

26 

Table of Contents   

which $0.5 million was paid to Villa s minority shareholders. The remaining $1.9 million, net
of withholding taxes, was an intercompany transaction with the Company and therefore eliminated in
the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We also received a total of $0.4 million in
payment of the exercise price of stock options and warrants during fiscal 2005.

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations, including debt and operating
leases at July 29, 2006 (in thousands):

(1) 
       
     In addition to the long term obligations above, as of July 29, 2006 we had approximately
$2.5 million in revolving credit debt in the US and $3.3 million in Italy. The Italian
credit facilities are generally renewed on a yearly basis and the North Fork Facility, as
amended, matures in August 2008. 

Credit Facility and Borrowing   On August 1, 2005, the Company entered into a three-year
revolving credit and term loan facility with North Fork Business Capital (the  North Fork
Facility ) and repaid the GECC facility. The North Fork Facility provides for a $6 million formula
based revolving credit facility based on the Company s eligible accounts receivable and inventory
as defined in the credit agreement. In addition, the Company borrowed $2 million under a term loan
facility secured by the Company s Bay Shore, New York building. Interest on the revolving credit
borrowings is payable at prime plus 0.5 % or alternatively at a LIBOR rate plus 2.5%. The $2
million term loan is repayable in monthly installments of $16.7 thousand with a balloon payment of
the remaining balance due at the maturity in three years. Interest on the term loan is payable
monthly at prime plus 0.75 % or a LIBOR rate plus 2.75%. As of July 29, 2006, the Company had
approximately $1.0 million of availability under the North Fork Facility, of which North Fork has
reserved $1 million against possible litigation settlements. The North Fork Facility is secured by
substantially all of the Company s accounts receivable, inventory and property plant and equipment
in the US. As of July 29, 2006, the balance under the revolving credit agreement was $2.5 million
and the term loan was $1.8 million.

As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company was non-compliant with the
following covenants: the Adjusted US Earnings, Adjusted Earnings, Senior US Debt Ratio and Fixed
Charge Coverage Ratio covenants under the North Fork Facility, due to the operating loss the
Company experienced for the first quarter of fiscal 2006. On December 12, 2005, the Company and
North Fork Business Capital signed an amendment to the facility that waived the non-compliance with
these covenants for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and adjusted the covenant levels going forward
through the maturity of the credit facility.

As of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company was non-compliant with the
following covenants: the Adjusted US Earnings, Senior US Debt Ratio, Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
and minimum Tangible Net Worth covenants under the North Fork Facility, due to the operating loss
the Company experienced for the second quarter of fiscal 2006. In March 2006, the Company signed a
waiver to the facility that waived non-compliance with these financial covenants for the second
quarter of fiscal 2006 and waived the non-compliance of a covenant due to a delay in granting the
bank a security interest in two-thirds of the shares of Villa required upon consummation of the
purchase of the remaining 20% of Villa by the Company.

As of the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company was non-compliant with the
following covenants: the Adjusted Earnings, Adjusted US Earnings, Senior US Debt Ratio, Fixed
Charge Coverage Ratio and Minimum Tangible Net Worth and Capital Expenditure covenants under the
North Fork Facility, due to less than anticipated results Company experienced for the third quarter
of fiscal 2006. In June 2006, the Company received a waiver to the facility that waived
non-compliance with these financial covenants for the third quarter of fiscal 2006.

As of the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company was non-compliant with the
following covenants: the Adjusted US Earnings, Adjusted Earnings, Senior US Debt Ratio and Fixed
Charge Coverage Ratio covenants under the North Fork Facility, due to the lower than anticipated
performance during fiscal 2006. On October 25, 2006, the Company and North Fork Business Capital
signed an amendment to the facility that waived the non-compliance with these covenants for the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and adjusted the covenant levels going forward through the maturity
of the credit facility. In addition the amendment reversed $0.3

27 

Table of Contents   

million of a sinking fund reserved for the March 2007 maturity of the subordinated shareholder
note and eliminated additional sinking fund reserves provisions related to the subordinated note.

The Company received a dividend from its Villa subsidiary in October 2006 of approximately
$1.5 million which was used to pay down amounts outstanding under the North Fork facility, in
accordance with provisions of the facility.

Our Villa subsidiary is a party to various short-term credit facilities with interest rates
ranging from 6% to 14%. These facilities generally renew on a yearly basis and include overdraft,
receivables and import export financing facilities. In addition, Villa is a party to various
medium-term commercial and Italian Government long-term loans. Medium term facilities have interest
rates ranging from 3% to 6%, with principal payable semi-annually through maturity in March 2007,
and interest payable quarterly. The Government long-term facilities have an interest rate of 3.4%
with principal payable annually through September 2010. Villa s manufacturing facility is subject
to a capital lease obligation which matures in 2011 with an option to purchase. Villa is in
compliance with all related financial covenants under these short and long-term financings.

In October 2006 Villa entered into a 2.0 million Euro loan with interest payable at 4.7%. The
note is repayable over a seven year term. The note contains a financial covenant which provides
that the net equity of Villa can not fall below 5.0 million Euros. This covenant could limit
Villa s ability to pay dividends to the U.S. parent company in the event future losses, future
dividends or other events should cause Villa s equity to fall below the defined level.

In connection with the settlement reached on January 29, 2002 with the plaintiffs in the class
action litigation, the Company recorded the present value at 12% of a $2,000 subordinated note that
was issued in April 2002 and matures in March 2007. The subordinated note does not pay interest
currently, but accrues interest at 6% per annum, and was recorded at issuance at a discounted
present value of $1,519. The balance at July 29, 2006 was $2,415 which is all included in current
portion of long-term debt on the accompanying balance sheet. In the event funds generated from US
or Villa operations are not anticipated to be sufficient to both fund US operations and create a
reserve to repay the estimated $2.7 million principal and accrued interest due upon the maturity of
the subordinated note, the Company will seek to refinance the subordinated note.

During fiscal 2005, the Company applied to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp and to the IRS
for a determination letter and approval to terminate this plan. In the fourth quarter of fiscal
2005, the Company recognized a related non-cash charge of approximately $0.5 million to write off
the pension assets on its balance sheet in recognition of the formal decision to terminate the
plan. In preparation for the plan termination, during fiscal 2005 the Company fully funded the
expected cash disbursement of $0.2 million dollars. The Company received the IRS determination
letter approving the final settlement during the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and fully paid out
all of the plan participants in March 2006.

As described in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report, the Company had an
employment agreement with Samuel Park, the previous Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ), for the period
May 1, 2001 to April 30, 2004. The employment agreement provided for certain payments in the event
of a change in the control of the Company.

On October 10, 2003, the Company announced the appointment of Walter F. Schneider as President and
CEO to replace Mr. Park, effective as of such date. As a result, the Company recorded a charge of
$0.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2004 to accrue the balance remaining under Mr.
Park s employment agreement.

In addition, the Company s Board of Directors elected at the Company s Annual Meeting of
Shareholders held on May 29, 2003 had previously reviewed the  change of control  provisions
regarding payments totaling up to approximately $1.8 million under the employment agreement between
the Company and Mr. Park. As a result of this review and based upon, among other things, the advice
of special counsel, the Company s Board of Directors determined that no obligation to pay these
amounts has been triggered. Prior to his departure from the Company on October 10, 2003, Mr. Park
orally informed the Company that, after reviewing the matter with his counsel, he believed that the
obligation to pay these amounts has been triggered. On October 27, 2003, the Company received a
letter from Mr. Park s counsel demanding payment of certain sums and other consideration pursuant
to the Company s employment agreement with Mr. Park, including these change of control payments. On
November 17, 2003, the Company filed a complaint in the United States District Court, Southern
District of New York against Mr. Park seeking a declaratory judgment that no change in control
payment was or is due to Mr. Park, and that an amendment to the employment contract with Mr. Park
regarding advancement and reimbursement of legal fees is invalid and unenforceable. Mr. Park
answered the complaint and asserted counterclaims seeking payment from the Company based on his
position that a  change in control  occurred in June 2003. Mr. Park is also seeking other
consideration he believes he is owed under his employment agreement. The Company filed a reply to
Mr. Park s counterclaims denying that he is entitled to any of these payments. Discovery in this
matter was conducted and completed. Following discovery, the

28 

Table of Contents   

Company and Mr. Park filed motions for summary judgment on the issues related to the change in
control and the amendment to the employment agreement, which motions have been fully submitted to
the court for consideration. To date, no decision has been issued by the court on these motions. If
Mr. Park prevails on his claims and the payments he seeks are required to be paid in a lump sum,
these payments may have a material adverse effect on the Company s liquidity. It is not possible to
predict the outcome of these claims. However, the Company s Board of Directors does not believe
that such a claim is reasonably likely to result in a material decrease in the Company s liquidity
in the foreseeable future.

On June 28, 2002, Jeffrey N. Moeller, the former Director of Quality Assurance and Regulatory
Affairs of Del Medical, commenced an action in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, against
the Company, Del Medical and Walter Schneider, the former President of Del Medical. In the most
current iteration of this pleading, the third amended complaint, Mr. Moeller alleges four claims
against the defendants in the action: (1) retaliatory discharge from employment with Del Medical,
allegedly in response to Mr. Moeller s complaints to officers of Del Medical about purported
prebilling and his stopping shipment of a product that allegedly did not meet regulatory standards,
(2) defamation, (3) intentional interference with his employment relationship with Del Medical and
prospective employers, and (4) to hold the Company liable for any misconduct of Del Medical under a
theory of piercing the corporate veil. On September 13, 2006, the Court heard oral argument on
defendants  motion requesting summary judgment dismissing the third-amended complaint. Defendants 
request for summary judgment dismissing the entirety of the third-amended complaint was not
granted, and a jury trial of the action is scheduled to commence on November 13, 2006. The Company
and Del Medical intend to defend vigorously against Mr. Moeller s claims. Mr. Moeller is seeking
$1.9 million in damages consisting of income loss, including salary and benefits, and the present
value of his lost income and benefits in the future after lump sum tax adjustments.

On October 1, 2004, the Company completed the sale of its DHV division for $3.1 million plus
the assumption of $0.8 million of liabilities as described more fully in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.

The Company has or had no investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities or other
off balance sheet arrangements during any of the periods presented in this Form 10-K.

We anticipate that cash generated from operations and amounts available from credit
facilities, or anticipated funds from future debt or equity financings will be sufficient to
satisfy currently projected operating cash needs and the repayment of the subordinated promissory
notes for at least the next twelve months, and for the foreseeable future.

EFFECTS OF NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 151,  Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4.  This Statement amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to
clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and
wasted material (spoilage), requiring that those items be recognized as current-period charges. In
addition, this Statement requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of
conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The Company adopted this
statement as of the beginning of fiscal year 2006 and effects were not material to its financial
statements or results of operations.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (R),  Share-Based Payments,  which established
standards for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods and
services. The standard requires a public entity to measure the equity instruments award based on
the grant-date fair value. This eliminates the exception to account for such awards using the
intrinsic method previously allowed under APB Opinion No. 25. SFAS No. 123 (R) has been adopted
for fiscal year 2006 and the Company recorded a related expense of $0.1 million. The statement does
not require restatement of previously issued statements and is being applied on a prospective
basis.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153,  Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets,  which
eliminates the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it
with a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance.
SFAS No. 153 became effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning
after June 15, 2005. The Company adopted this statement as of the beginning of fiscal 2006 and
effects were not material to its financial statements or results of operations.

29 

Table of Contents   

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation ( FIN ) No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations.  FIN No. 47 provides guidance relating to the identification of and
financial reporting for legal obligations to perform an asset retirement activity. The
Interpretation requires recognition of a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset
retirement obligation when incurred if the liability s fair value can be reasonably estimated. FIN
No. 47 also defines when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the
fair value of an asset retirement obligation. The provision is effective no later than the end of
fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. The Company does not believe the adoption of FIN No.
47 will have a material impact on the Company s financial statements or results of operations.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3.  This Statement provides guidance on the
accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections. It establishes, unless
impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in
accounting principle, in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly
adopted accounting principle. This Statement also provides guidance for determining whether
retrospective application of a change in accounting principle is impracticable and for reporting a
change when retrospective application is impracticable. The correction of an error in previously
issued financial statements is not an accounting change. However, the reporting of an error
correction involves adjustments to previously issued financial statements similar to those
generally applicable to reporting an accounting change retrospectively. Therefore, the reporting of
a correction of an error by restating previously issued financial statements is also addressed by
this Statement. This Statement is effective for accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2005. The Company does not believe the adoption of SFAS No. 154 will have a
material impact on the Company s financial statements or results of operations.

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial
Instruments   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140,  which simplifies accounting for
certain hybrid instruments by permitting fair value remeasurement for any hybrid instrument that
contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation and eliminates a
restriction on the passive derivative instruments that a qualifying special-purpose entity may
hold. SFAS No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued or subject to a
remeasurement (new basis) event occurring after the beginning of an entity s first fiscal year that
begins after September 15, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 155 will have no impact on our results
of operations or our financial position.

In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets  
an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140,  which establishes, among other things, the accounting for
all separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities by requiring that all
separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities be initially measured at fair
value, if practicable. SFAS No. 156 is effective as of the beginning of an entity s first fiscal
year that begins after September 15, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 156 will have no impact on our
results of operations or our financial position.

In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  Accounting for Income
Taxes  ( SFAS 109 ) , to clarify the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an
enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109. This Interpretation prescribes a
recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and
measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN48 also provides
guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods,
disclosure, and transition. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2006. The Company has not evaluated the impact of FIN 48 on its financial
statements at this time.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We do not ordinarily hold market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. We do,
however, recognize market risk from interest rate and foreign currency exchange exposure.

INTEREST RATE RISK

Our US and foreign revolving credit facilities and certain of our Italian subsidiary s
long-term debt incur interest charges that fluctuate with changes in market interest rates. See
Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual
Report. Based on the balances as of July 29, 2006, an increase of 1/2 of 1% in interest rates would
increase interest expense by approximately $70,000 annually. There is no assurance that interest
rates will increase or decrease over the next fiscal year. Because we believe this risk is not
material, we do not undertake any specific steps to reduce or eliminate this risk.

30 

Table of Contents   

FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK

The financial statements of Villa are denominated in Euros. Based on our historical results
and expected future results, Villa accounts for approximately 43% to 57% of our total revenues,
based in part on the rate at which Villa s Euro denominated financial statements have been or will
be converted into US dollars. In addition, over the last three years, Villa has contributed
positive operating income, as compared to our consolidated operating losses. Having a portion of
our future income denominated in Euros exposes us to market risk with respect to fluctuations in
the US dollar value of future Euro earnings. A 10% decline in the value of the Euro in fiscal 2006,
for example, would have reduced sales by approximately $4.8 million, and would have decreased our
consolidated income from continuing operations by approximately $221,000 (due to the reduction in
the US dollar value of Villa s operating income.)

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The consolidated financial statements of the Company, including the notes to all such
statements and other supplementary data are included in this report beginning on page F-1.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

On June 30, 2005, the Company dismissed Deloitte   Touche LLP ( Deloitte ) as its independent
registered public accounting firm. The Company s Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (the
 Audit Committee ) recommended the dismissal of Deloitte. During the Company s most recent two
fiscal years, Deloitte s report on the financial statements did not contain an adverse opinion or
disclaimer of opinion nor was qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope, or accounting
principles. In connection with the audits for the two previous recent fiscal years ended August 3,
2003 and July 31, 2004, and the nine-month subsequent interim period ended April 30, 2005, there
were no disagreements with Deloitte on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial
statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which, if not resolved to the satisfaction of
Deloitte, would have caused Deloitte to make reference thereto in their reports on the financial
statements for such fiscal years. During the two most recent fiscal years and through the date of
dismissal, there have been no  reportable events,  as such term is defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of
Regulation S-K.

On June 30, 2005, the Company engaged BDO Seidman, LLP ( BDO ) as its principal accountant.
The engagement of BDO was recommended by the Audit Committee.

During the two most recent fiscal years and prior to its engagement, the Company had not
consulted with BDO regarding any of the matters or reportable events set forth in Item 304(a)(2)(i)
and (ii) of Regulation S-K.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

The Company, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company s management,
including James Risher, Chief Executive Officer and Mark Zorko, Principal Financial Officer, has
evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s  disclosure controls and
procedures,  as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15e and 15d-15e promulgated under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as of the date of this Annual Report. Based upon that evaluation,
the Chief Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer have concluded that the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this
report to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in
reports that it files or submits under the Securities Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms.

INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

In the ordinary course of business, the Company routinely enhances its information systems by
either upgrading its current systems or implementing new systems. There were no changes in the
Company s internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls,
during the Company s fourth fiscal quarter ended July 29, 2006 that have materially affected, or
are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.

31 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this Item 10 for all directors and executive officers of the
Company is incorporated herein by reference to the Company s definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to
Regulation 14A for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which Proxy Statement will be filed
with the SEC not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual
Report.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item 11 with respect to executive compensation is
incorporated herein by reference to the Company s definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation
14A for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which Proxy Statement will be filed with the SEC
not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this Item 12 with respect to security ownership of directors,
executive officers and substantial stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to the
Company s definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation 14A for the 2007 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, which Proxy Statement will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the
end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this Item 13 with respect to certain relationships and
transactions between directors and executive officers and substantial stockholders of the Company
with the Company is incorporated by reference to the Company s definitive Proxy Statement pursuant
to Regulation 14A for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which Proxy Statement will be filed
with the SEC not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual
Report.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this Item 14 with respect to principal accounting fees and
services is incorporated by reference to the Company s definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to
Regulation 14A for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which Proxy Statement will be filed
with the SEC not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual
Report.

32 

Table of Contents   

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

33 

Table of Contents   

3. EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT  

NUMBER  
       
      DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT  

2.1

Stock Purchase Agreement (related to the acquisition of Villa Sistemi Medicali
S.p.A.) dated as of December 28, 1999. Filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 4, 2000 and incorporated
herein by reference. 

2.2

Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of October 1, 2004 by and between Spellman High
Voltage Electronics Corporation and Del Global Technologies Corp. Filed as Exhibit
99.01 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 7,
2004 and incorporated herein by reference. 

3.1

Certificate of Incorporation dated October 25, 1954. Filed as Exhibit to Del
Electronics Corp. Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 2-16839) and incorporated
herein by reference. 

3.2

Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation dated January 26, 1957.
Filed as Exhibit to Del Electronics Corp. Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No.
2-16839) and incorporated herein by reference. 

3.3

Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation dated July 12, 1960. Filed
as Exhibit to Del Electronics Corp. Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 2-16839)
and incorporated herein by reference. 

3.4

Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation dated March 18, 1985. Filed
as Exhibit 3.5 to Del Electronics Corp. Form 10-K for the year ended August 2, 1989
and incorporated herein by reference. 

3.5

Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation dated January 19, 1989.
Filed as Exhibit 4.5 to Del Electronics Corp. Form S-3 (No. 33-30446) filed August
10, 1989 and incorporated herein by reference. 

3.6

Certificate of Amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation of Del Electronics
Corp., dated February 5, 1991. Filed with Del Electronics Corp. Proxy Statement
dated January 22, 1991 and incorporated herein by reference. 

3.7

Certificate of Amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation of Del Electronics
Corp. dated February 14, 1996. Filed as Exhibit 3.6 to Del Global Technologies Corp.
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 1, 1998 and incorporated herein
by reference. 

3.8

Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Del Global Technologies
Corp. dated February 13, 1997. Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended February 1, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference. 

3.9

Amended and Restated By-Laws of Del Global Technologies Corp. Filed as Exhibit 3.1
to Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 5, 2001 and incorporated herein by
reference. 

3.10

Amendment No. 1 to the Amended and Restated By-Laws of Del Global Technologies Corp.
dated July 17, 2003. Filed as Exhibit 3.01 to Current Report on Form 8-K dated July
30, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference. 

4.1

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED. 

4.2

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED. 

4.8

Warrant Certificate of Laurence Hirschhorn. Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 29,
2000 and incorporated herein by reference. 

4.9

Warrant Certificate of Steven Anreder. Filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 29,
2000 and incorporated herein by reference. 

4.10

Warrant Certificate of UBS Capital S.p.A. dated as of December 28, 1999. Filed as
Exhibit 4 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended January 29, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference. 

34 

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT  

NUMBER  
       
      DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT  

4.11*

Del Global Technologies Corp. Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (as adopted
effective as of January 1, 1994 and as amended December 14, 2000). Filed as Exhibit
4.11 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
August 3, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference. 

4.12*

Stock Purchase Plan. Filed as Exhibit 4.9 to Del Electronics Corp. Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended July 29, 1989 and incorporated herein by reference. 

4.13*

Option Agreement, substantially in the form used in connection with options granted
under the Plan. Filed as Exhibit 4.8 to Del Electronics Corp. Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended July 29, 1989 and incorporated herein by reference. 

4.14*

Option Agreement dated as of December 28, 1999. Filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 4, 2000 and incorporated
herein by reference. 

4.15

Warrant Agreement substantially in the form used for 1,000,000 warrants issued in
connection with the settlement of the Class Action Lawsuit on January 29, 2002.
Filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended August 3, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference. 

4.16*

Amendment No. 1 dated July 17, 2003 to the Del Global Technologies Corp. Amended and
Restated Stock Option Plan (as adopted effective as of January 1, 1994 and as
amended December 14, 2000). Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Del Global Technologies Corp.
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended November 1, 2003 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

4.17*

Amendment No. 2 dated July 7, 2005 to the Del Global Technologies Corp. Amended and
Restated Stock Option Plan (as adopted effective as of January 1, 1994 and as
amended December 14, 2000 and July 17, 2003). Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 7, 2005 and incorporated
herein by reference. 

4.18

Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of December 22, 2005 by and among Del Global
Technologies Corp. and Mr. Giuseppe Carmelo Ammendola, Mr. Emilio Bruschi, Mr.
Roberto Daglio and Mr. Luigi Emmanuele Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 28, 2005 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.2

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED. 

10.3

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED. 

10.4

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED. 

10.5

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED. 

10.6

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED. 

10.7

Lease Agreement dated April 7, 1992 between Messenger Realty and Del Electronics
Corp. Filed as Exhibit 6(a) to Del Electronics Corp. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended May 2, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.8

Lease and Guaranty of Lease dated May 25, 1994 between Leshow Enterprises and Bertan
High Voltage Corp. Filed as Exhibit 2.5 to Del Electronics Corp. Current Report on
Form 8-K dated June 10, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.9

Lease dated January 4, 1993 between Curto Reynolds Oelerich Inc. and Del Medical
Imaging Corp. (formerly knows as Gendex-Del Medical Imaging Corp.). Filed as Exhibit
10.21 to the Del Global Technologies Corp. Registration Statement on Form S-2 (No.
333-2991) dated April 30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference. 

35 

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT  

NUMBER  
       
      DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT  

10.10

Loan and Security Agreement dated June 10, 2002, in the principal amount of
$10,000,000, between Del Global Technologies Corp., Bertan High Voltage Corp., RFI
Corporation and Del Medical Imaging Corp. (Borrowers) and Transamerica Business
Capital Corporation. The Company agrees to furnish supplementally a copy of any
omitted exhibits or schedules to the SEC upon request. Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del
Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 4, 2002 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.11

Subordinated Promissory Note substantially in the form used for a total principal
amount of $2 million issued in connection with the settlement of the Class Action
Lawsuit on January 29, 2002. Filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Del Global Technologies Corp.
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 3, 2002 and incorporated herein
by reference. 

10.12

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED. 

10.13*

Executive Employment Agreement dated May 1, 2001, by and between Del Global
Technologies Corp. and Samuel E. Park. Filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 1, 2001 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.14*

Change of Control Agreement substantially in the form used by the Company for the
current executive officers as named in Item 11, except for Samuel E. Park (see
Exhibit 10.13). Filed as Exhibit 10.14 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 3, 2002 and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.15

Extension and Modification Agreement (lease agreement) dated as of July 30, 2002
between Praedium II Valhalla LLC and Del Global Technologies Corp. Filed as Exhibit
10.15 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
August 3, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.16

Grant Decree No. 0213 between the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Handicrafts and
Villa Sistemi Medicali S.p.A. dated September 6, 1995. Filed as Exhibit 10.16 to Del
Global Technologies Corp. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 3,
2002 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.17

Financial Property Lease Contract no. 21136 dated March 30, 2000 between ING Lease
(Italia) S.p.A. and Villa Sistemi Medicali S.p.A. Filed as Exhibit 10.17 to Del
Global Technologies Corp. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 3,
2002 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.18

Declaration of Final Obligation between the Ministry of Productive Industry and
Villa Sistemi Medicali S.p.A. dated May 6, 2002. Filed as Exhibit 10.18 to Del
Global Technologies Corp. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 3,
2002 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.19

Private Contract between Banca Mediocredito S.p.A and Villa Sistemi Medicali S.p.A.
dated November 4, 1998 in the principal amount of 3 billion Lire. Filed as Exhibit
10.19 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
August 3, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.20*

Change of Control Agreement as approved by the Board of Directors on October 24,
2002, substantially in the form used by its current executive officers (in the case
of Walter F. Schneider, as amended pursuant to Exhibit 10.22 hereof). Filed as
Exhibit 10.20 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended August 3, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.21

Waiver and First Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement dated as of November 1,
2002 among Del Global Technologies Corp., Bertan High Voltage Corp., RFI Corporation
and Del Medical Imaging Corp. (Borrowers) and Transamerica Business Capital
Corporation. Filed as Exhibit 99.02 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Current Report
on Form 8-K filed on November 4, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.22

Second Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement dated December 17, 2002 among
Del Global Technologies Corp., Bertan High Voltage Corp., RFI Corporation and Del
Medical Imaging Corp. (Borrowers) and Transamerica Business Capital Corporation.
Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended November 2, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference. 

36 

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT  

NUMBER  
       
      DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT  

10.23

Settlement Agreement and Release dated March 10, 2003 by and between Del Global
Technologies Corp. and its affiliates, subsidiaries, present and former directors,
officers, agents, accountants, attorneys, stockholders, predecessors and the agents
and attorneys of its present and former directors, and Leonard A. Trugman and each
of his heirs, administrators, liquidators, executors, successors, and assigns. Filed
as Exhibit 10.22 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended February 1, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.24

Separation Agreement and General Release of Claims dated April 9, 2003, by and
between James M. Tiernan and Del Global Technologies Corp. Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to
Del Global Technologies Corp. Amendment to Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on
April 23, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.25

Separation Agreement and General Release of Claims dated April 9, 2003, by and
between David Michael, David Michael   Co., P.C. and Del Global Technologies Corp.
Filed as Exhibit 99.02 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Amendment to Current Report
on Form 8-K/A filed on April 23, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.26

Form of Indemnification Agreement. Filed as Exhibit 10.22 to Del Global Technologies
Corp. Amendment #1 to Registration Statement on Form S-1/A, filed on May 1, 2003 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.27

Amendment to Executive Employment Agreement dated May 28, 2003 by and between Del
Global Technologies Corp. and Samuel E. Park. Filed as Exhibit 10.23 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended May
3, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.28

Amendment dated October 10, 2003 to Change of Control Agreement for Walter F.
Schneider filed as Exhibit 10.28 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended August 2, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.29

Waiver and Third Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of October
30, 2003, among Del Global Technologies Corp., Bertan High Voltage Corp., RFI
Corporation and Del Medical Imaging Corp. (Borrowers) and Transamerica Business
Capital Corporation filed as Exhibit 10.29 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 2, 2003 and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.30

Waiver, Consent and Fourth Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of
March 12, 2004, by and among Del Global Technologies Corp. and General Electric
Capital Corporation, as successor by assignment to Transamerica Business
Corporation. Filed as Exhibit 10.30 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2004 and incorporated
herein by reference. 

10.31*

Letter Agreement dated as of February 10, 2003 between Mark Koch and Del Global
Technologies Corp. Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Current
Report on Form 8-K filed August 27, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.32

Non-Competition Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004 by and between Del Global
Technologies Corp. and Walter F. Schneider. Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 10, 2004 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.33

Separation Agreement and Release dated as of September 1, 2004 between Del Global
Technologies Corp. and Thomas V. Gilboy. Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 15, 2004 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.34

Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 15, 2004 to the Letter Agreement dated
February 10, 2003 between Mark Koch and Del Global Technologies Corp. Filed as
Exhibit 99.01 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed
September 20, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.35

Loan Agreement dated as of September 23, 2004 between Del Global Technologies Corp.
( Del Global ) and Villa Sistemi Medicali S.p.A., a subsidiary of Del Global. Filed
as Exhibit 99.01 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed
September 28, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.36

Waiver, Consent and Fifth Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of
September 23, 2004, by and among Del Global Technologies Corp., Bertan High Voltage
Corp., RFI Corporation and Del Medical Imaging Corp. (Borrowers) and General
Electric Capital Corporation, as successor by assignment to Transamerica Business
Capital Corporation. Filed as Exhibit 99.02 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Current
Report on Form 8-K filed September 28, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference. 

37 

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT  

NUMBER  
       
      DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT  

10.37

Settlement Agreement dated as of September 30, 2004, by and among the United States
of America, on behalf of the Department of Defense, acting through the United States
Attorney s Office for the Eastern District of New York, Del Global Technologies
Corp. and RFI Corporation. Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 5, 2004 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.38

Assignment, Assumption and Amendment of Lease dated as of October 1, 2004 among DP
16, LLC, Del Global Technologies Corp. and Spellman High Voltage Electronics
Corporation. Filed as Exhibit 99.02 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Current Report
on Form 8-K filed October 7, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.39

First Amendment to Villa Loan Agreement dated October 22, 2004 between Del Global
Technologies Corp and Villa Sistemi Medicali, S.p.A filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del
Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 26, 2004 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.40

Sixth Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of October 25, 2004 by
and among Del Global Technologies Corp, Bertan High Voltage Corp, RFI Corporation
and Del Medical Imaging Corp (Borrowers) and General Electric Capital Corporation as
successor to Transamerica Business Capital Corporation filed as Exhibit 99.02 to Del
Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 26, 2004 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.41

Consent and Seventh Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of
February 2, 2005, among Del Global Technologies Corp., Bertan High Voltage Corp.,
RFI Corporation and Del Medical Imaging Corp. (Borrowers) and GE Business Capital
Corporation F/K/A Transamerica Business Capital Corporation filed as Exhibit 99.1 to
Del Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 7, 2005 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.42

Administrative Agreement dated as of April 1, 2005 between Del Global Technologies
Corp., RFI Corporation and the Defense Logistics Agency. Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to
Del Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 5, 2005 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.43

Consent and Eighth Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of April 5,
2005, among Del Global Technologies Corp., Bertan High Voltage Corp., RFI
Corporation and Del Medical Imaging Corp. (Borrowers) and GE Business Capital
Corporation F/K/A Transamerica Business Capital Corporation filed as Exhibit 99.02
to Del Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 5, 2005 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.44*

Senior Management Incentive Plan filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del Global Technologies
Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 3, 2005 and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.45*

Severance Benefits Letter Agreement dated as of May 23, 2005 between Del Global
Technologies Corp. and Walter F. Schneider. Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 25, 2005 and incorporated
herein by reference. 

10.46*

Severance Benefits Letter Agreement dated as of May 23, 2005 between Del Global
Technologies Corp. and Mark A. Koch. Filed as Exhibit 99.02 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 25, 2005 and incorporated
herein by reference. 

10.47

Separation Agreement and Release dated as of April 1, 2005 between Del Global
Technologies Corp. and Edward Ferris filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 6, 2005 and incorporated
herein by reference. 

10.48

Waiver and Ninth Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of June 9,
2005, among Del Global Technologies Corp., Bertan High Voltage Corp., RFI
Corporation and Del Medical Imaging Corp. (Borrowers) and GE Business Capital
Corporation F/K/A Transamerica Business Capital Corporation filed as Exhibit 99.01
to Del Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 9, 2005 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.49

Loan and Security Agreement dated as of August 1, 2005 among Del Global Technologies
Corp., RFI Corporation, Del Medical Imaging Corp. and North Fork Business Capital
Corporation. Filed as Exhibit 10.01 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Current Report
on Form 8-K filed August 3, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.50

Second Amendment to Villa Loan Agreement dated August 1, 2005 between Del Global
Technologies Corp and Villa Sistemi Medicali, S.p.A filed as Exhibit 10.02 to Del
Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 3, 2005 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

38 

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT  

NUMBER  
       
      DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT  

10.51

Waiver and First Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of December
12, 2005 among Del Global Technologies Corp., RFI Corporation and Del Medical
Imaging Corp. (Borrowers) and North Fork Business Capital Corporation. Filed as
Exhibit 10.51 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended October 29, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.52

Waiver to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of March 14, 2006 among Del
Global Technologies Corp., RFI Corporation and Del Medical Imaging Corp. (Borrowers)
and North Fork Business Capital Corporation. Filed as Exhibit 10.52 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
January 28, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.53*

Separation Agreement and Release dated as of March 21, 2006 by and between Del
Global Technologies Corp. and Christopher N. Japp. Filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Del
Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 24, 2006 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.54

Waiver to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of June 13, 2006 by and among Del
Global Technologies Corp., Del Medical Imaging Corp., RFI Corporation (Borrowers)
and North Fork Business Capital Corporation. Filed as Exhibit 10.53 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
April 29, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.55

Consulting Agreement dated as of June 14, 2006 by and between Del Global
Technologies Corp. and Lumina Group LLC. Filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 30, 2006 and incorporated
herein by reference. 

10.56

Second Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of June 30, 2006 among
Del Global Technologies Corp., RFI Corporation and Del Medical Imaging Corp.
(Borrowers) and North Fork Business Capital Corporation. Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to
Del Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 7, 2006 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.57*

Separation Agreement and Release dated as of July 24, 2006 by and between Del Global
Technologies Corp. and Walter F. Schneider. Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 24, 2006 and incorporated
herein by reference. 

10.58*

Letter Agreement dated as of August 31, 2006 between Del Global Technologies Corp.
and James A. Risher. Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Current
Report on Form 8-K filed August 31, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.59*

Letter Agreement dated as of August 30, 2006 between Del Global Technologies Corp.
and Mark Zorko. Filed as Exhibit 99.02 to Del Global Technologies Corp. Current
Report on Form 8-K filed August 31, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.60

Full-Time Permanent Engagement Resources Agreement dated as of August 21, 2006
between Del Global Technologies Corp. and Tatum, LLC. Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del
Global Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 31, 2006 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.61*

Separation Agreement and Release dated as of September 7, 2006 by and between Del
Global Technologies Corp. and Mark A. Koch. Filed as Exhibit 99.01 to Del Global
Technologies Corp. Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 7, 2006 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.62

Waiver and Third Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of October
25, 2006 by and among Del Global Technologies Corp., Del Medical Imaging Corp., RFI
Corporation (Borrowers) and North Fork Business Capital Corporation. (1) 

23.1

Consent of Deloitte   Touche, LLP (1). 

23.2

Consent of BDO Seidman, LLP (1). 

31.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer, James Risher, pursuant to Section 302 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (1). 

39 

Table of Contents   

* 
       
     Represents a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

(1) Filed herewith.

40 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

DEL GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES CORP. 

October 27, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ James A. Risher

James A. Risher  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

October 27, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ Mark A. Zorko

Mark A. Zorko  

Chief Financial Officer and Principal Financial Officer  

October 27, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ Mark A Koch

Mark A. Koch  

Treasurer and Principal Accounting Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

41 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Del Global Technologies Corp. 
Franklin Park, Illinois 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Del Global Technologies Corp. and
subsidiaries as of July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, shareholders  equity and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Del Global Technologies Corp and subsidiaries at July
29, 2006 and July 30, 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years
then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.

/s/ BDO SEIDMAN, LLP

Valhalla, New York 
October 6, 2006 
Except for Note 8, which is as of October 25, 2006

F-1 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Del Global Technologies Corp. 
Franklin Park, Illinois

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statement of operations, shareholders  equity and
cash flows of Del Global Technologies Corp. and subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended July 31,
2004. Our audit also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) 2,
as it relates to the fiscal year ended July 31, 2004. These financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated statement of operations, shareholders  equity and cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the results of operations of Del Global Technologies
Corp. and subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2004, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York  
October 28, 2004

F-2 

Table of Contents   

DEL GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

See notes to consolidated financial statements

F-3 

Table of Contents   

DEL GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

See notes to consolidated financial statements

F-4 

Table of Contents   

DEL GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

See notes to consolidated financial statements

F-5 

Table of Contents   

DEL GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

F-6 

Table of Contents   

DEL GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

See notes to consolidated financial statements

F-7 

Table of Contents   

DEL GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS ACTIVITIES   Del Global Technologies Corp. ( Del Global ) together with its
subsidiaries (collectively, the  Company ), is engaged in two major lines of business: Medical
Systems Group and Power Conversion Group. The Medical Systems Group segment designs, manufactures
and markets imaging and diagnostic systems consisting of stationary and portable x-ray imaging
systems, radiographic/fluoroscopic systems, mammography systems and dental systems. The Power
Conversion Group segment designs, manufactures and markets key electronic components such as
transformers, noise suppression filters and high voltage capacitors for use in precision regulated
high voltage applications.

As of July 31, 2004, the Company s Board committed to a plan to dispose of its Del High Voltage
Division ( DHV ) and on October 1, 2004, we sold this division for a purchase price of $3,100, plus
the assumption of approximately $800 of liabilities. Accordingly, the results of operations for
the years ended July 30, 2005 and July 31, 2004 have been reclassified to show this division as a
discontinued operation. See Note 3, Discontinued Operation.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION   The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the accrual
basis of accounting, which conforms to accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America, ( U.S. GAAP ) and include the accounts of Del Global and its subsidiaries. All
material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

USE OF ESTIMATES   The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S.
GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
consolidated balance sheets, as well as reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Significant estimates underlying the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
allowance for doubtful accounts, allowance for obsolete and excess inventory, realizability of
deferred income tax assets, recoverability of intangibles and other long-lived assets, and future
obligations associated with the Company s litigation.

ACCOUNTING PERIOD   The Company s fiscal year-end is based on a 52/53-week cycle ending on the
Saturday nearest to July 31. Results of the Company s subsidiary, Villa Sistemi Medicali S.p.A.
( Villa ) are consolidated into Del Global s consolidated financial statements based on a fiscal
year that ends on June 30 and are reported on a one-month lag.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS   The Company considers highly liquid instruments readily convertible to
known amounts of cash with original maturities of three months or less (measured from their
acquisition date) to be cash equivalents.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION   The financial statements of our foreign subsidiary are recorded in
 Euro  and translated into U.S. dollars. The foreign subsidiary s balance sheet accounts are
translated at the current exchange rate and income statement items are translated at the average
exchange rate for the period. Gains and losses resulting from translation are accumulated in a
separate component of stockholders  equity.

INVENTORIES   Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market value. Cost is comprised of
direct materials and, where applicable, direct labor costs and overhead that has been incurred in
transporting the inventories to their present location and condition. Engineering costs incurred to
set up products to be manufactured for a customer purchase order are capitalized when the scope of
the purchase order indicates that such costs are recoverable. Such costs are included in
work-in-process inventory and amortized on a units shipped basis over the life of the customer
order from the date of first shipment. Cost is calculated using the FIFO method. Market value
represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to completion and costs to be
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.

F-8 

Table of Contents   

PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET   Property plant and equipment, net are stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation and amortization. Replacements and major improvements are capitalized;
maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. Gains or losses on asset dispositions are
included in the determination of net income or loss. Depreciation is computed utilizing the
straight-line method. The cost of leasehold improvements is amortized over the shorter of the
useful life or the term of the lease.

Depreciable lives are generally as follows:

RECOVERABILITY OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS   The Company evaluates the carrying amounts of long-lived
assets (including intangibles) to determine if events have occurred which would require
modification to the carrying values. In evaluating carrying values of long-lived assets, the
Company reviews certain indicators of potential impairment, such as undiscounted projected cash
flows and business plans. In the event that impairment has occurred, the fair value of the related
asset is determined and the Company records a charge to operations calculated by comparing the
asset s carrying value to the estimated fair value. The Company estimates fair value based on the
best information available making whatever estimates, judgments and projections are considered
necessary.

DEFERRED FINANCING COSTS, NET   Financing costs, including fees, commission and legal expenses are
capitalized and amortized on a straight line basis, which approximates the interest method, over
the term or expected term of the relevant loan. Amortization of deferred financing costs is
included in interest expense.

GOODWILL   Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisitions over the fair value of the
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The Company ceased all goodwill amortization
effective August 4, 2002 and evaluates the goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. by comparing
the fair value to the carrying value for reporting units within the Power Conversion Group and for
the Medical Systems Group. Fair value is determined using a discounted cash flow method as well as
a review of valuation parameters for comparable publicly traded companies.

OTHER INTANGIBLES, NET   Other intangible assets are the Company s distribution network and
non-compete agreements acquired with the purchase of certain assets of a subsidiary. Intangibles
are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which range from 5 to 10
years. As of July 29, 2006 these intangibles are fully amortized.

REVENUE RECOGNITION   The Company recognizes revenue upon shipment, provided there is persuasive
evidence of an arrangement, there are no uncertainties concerning acceptance, the sales price is
fixed, collection of the receivable is probable and only perfunctory obligations related to the
arrangement need to be completed. The Company maintains a sales return allowance, based upon
historical patterns, to cover estimated normal course of business returns, including defective or
out of specification product. The Company s products are covered primarily by one year warranty
plans and in some cases optional extended warranties for up to five years are offered. The Company
establishes allowances for warranties on an aggregate basis for specifically identified, as well as
anticipated, warranty claims based on contractual terms, product conditions and actual warranty
experience by product line. The Company recognizes service revenue when repairs or out of warranty
repairs are completed. The Company has an FDA obligation to continue to provide repair service for
certain medical systems for up to seven years past the warranty period. These repairs are billed to
the customers at market rates.

Shipping and handling fees billed to customers are reflected in net sale and costs incurred for
shipping and handling are included in costs of sales.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS   Research and development costs are recognized as an expense in the
period in which they are incurred.

INCOME TAXES   Deferred income tax assets and liabilities represents the effects of the differences
between the income tax basis and financial reporting basis of assets and liabilities at the tax
rates expected at the time the deferred tax liability or asset is expected to be settled or
realized. Management provides valuation allowances against the deferred tax asset for amounts which
are not considered  more likely than not  to be realized.

F-9 

Table of Contents   

NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE   Net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss)
by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. The effect of the
assumed exercise of options and warrants to purchase common stock are excluded from the calculation
of loss per share when their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK   Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk are cash equivalents, investments in marketable securities and trade
receivables. With respect to accounts receivable, the Company limits its credit risk by performing
ongoing credit evaluations and, when necessary, requiring letters of credit, guarantees or
collateral deemed. Management does not believe significant risk exists in connection with the
Company s concentrations of credit at July 29, 2006.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION   In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (R),  Share-Based
Payments,  which established standards for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity
instruments for goods and services. The standard requires a public entity to measure the equity
instruments award based on the grant-date fair value. This eliminates the exception to account for
such awards using the intrinsic method previously allowed under APB Opinion No. 25. SFAS No. 123
(R) has been adopted for fiscal year 2006 and the Company recorded a related expense of $141. The
statement does not require restatement of previously issued statements and is being applied on a
prospective basis. See Note 11, Shareholders  Equity.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123 (R), the Company accounted for stock-based awards to employees
using the intrinsic value method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Principles Board
Opinion ( APB ) No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.  The Company s practice in
granting these awards to employees is to set the excise price of the stock options equal to the
market price of our underlying stock on the date of grant. Therefore, under the intrinsic value
method, no compensation expense is recognized in the Company s Consolidated Statement of
Operations.

Had compensation cost for the Company s stock option plans been determined based on the fair value
at the grant dates for awards under those plans consistent with the methods recommended by SFAS 123
(R), the Company s net income or loss and net income or loss per share for fiscal year 2005 and
2004 would have been stated at the pro forma amounts indicated below:

The fair value of the options used for the above proforma disclosures were determined on the date
of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. These options were valued based on the
following assumptions: an estimated life of seven years, volatility of 63% in fiscal 2005 and 68%
in 2004, risk free interest rate of 4.06% in fiscal 2005 and 4.11% in fiscal 2004, and no dividend
yield.

EFFECTS OF NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS   In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 151,  Inventory
Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.  This Statement amends the guidance in ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility
expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material (spoilage), requiring that those items be
recognized as current-period charges. In addition, this Statement requires that allocation of fixed
production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production
facilities. The Company adopted this statement as of the beginning of fiscal year 2006 and effects
were not material to its financial statements or results of operations.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153,  Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets,  which eliminates
the exception for

F-10 

Table of Contents   

nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a general exception for
exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. SFAS No. 153 became
effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15,
2005. The Company adopted this statement as of the beginning of fiscal 2006 and effects were not
material to its financial statements or results of operations.

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation ( FIN ) No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations.  FIN No. 47 provides guidance relating to the identification of and
financial reporting for legal obligations to perform an asset retirement activity. The
Interpretation requires recognition of a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset
retirement obligation when incurred if the liability s fair value can be reasonably estimated. FIN
No. 47 also defines when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the
fair value of an asset retirement obligation. The provision is effective no later than the end of
fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. The Company does not believe the adoption of FIN No.
47 will have a material impact on the Company s financial statements or results of operations.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a replacement
of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3.  This Statement provides guidance on the accounting for and
reporting of accounting changes and error corrections. It establishes, unless impracticable,
retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle, in
the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle.
This Statement also provides guidance for determining whether retrospective application of a change
in accounting principle is impracticable and for reporting a change when retrospective application
is impracticable. The correction of an error in previously issued financial statements is not an
accounting change. However, the reporting of an error correction involves adjustments to previously
issued financial statements similar to those generally applicable to reporting an accounting change
retrospectively. Therefore, the reporting of a correction of an error by restating previously
issued financial statements is also addressed by this Statement. This Statement is effective for
accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not
believe the adoption of SFAS No. 154 will have a material impact on the Company s financial
statements or results of operations.

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial
Instruments   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140,  which simplifies accounting for
certain hybrid instruments by permitting fair value remeasurement for any hybrid instrument that
contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation and eliminates a
restriction on the passive derivative instruments that a qualifying special-purpose entity may
hold. SFAS No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued or subject to a
remeasurement (new basis) event occurring after the beginning of an entity s first fiscal year that
begins after September 15, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 155 will have no impact on our results
of operations or our financial position.

In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets   an
amendment of FASB Statement No. 140,  which establishes, among other things, the accounting for all
separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities b y requiring that all separately
recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities be initially measured at fair value, if
practicable. SFAS No. 156 is effective as of the beginning of an entity s first fiscal year that
begins after September 15, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 156 will have no impact on our results
of operations or our financial position.

In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  ( SFAS
109 ) , to clarify the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s
financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109. This Interpretation prescribes a recognition
threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a
tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN48 also provides guidance on
derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure,
and transition. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2006. The Company has not evaluated the impact of FIN 48 on its financial statements at this
time.

2. ACQUISITION OF MINORITY INTEREST IN VILLA

On December 23, 2005, the Company acquired the remaining 20% of Villa for $2,612 plus 904,762
restricted shares of Company common stock. These shares were valued at $3.26 a share, or $2,950,
and are subject to SEC Rule 144 limitations as to holding periods and trading volume limitations.
Goodwill in the amount of $4,525 was recorded and $934 of minority interest was reversed after
recognition of a $388 dividend. Due to the previous 80% ownership interest existing at the time of
the original acquisition, the assets and liabilities of the Villa subsidiary were fully
consolidated before the transaction and considered to be at fair market value with no additional
adjustments necessary.

F-11 

Table of Contents   

3. DISCONTINUED OPERATION

On October 1, 2004, the Company completed the sale of its Del High Voltage Division ( DHV ) for a
purchase price of $3,100, plus the assumption of approximately $800 of liabilities. This division
was formerly part of the Power Conversion Group and designed, manufactured and marketed proprietary
precision power conversion subsystems for medical as well as critical industrial applications. The
results of operations of this division are shown as a discontinued operation in the accompanying
financial statements.

Certain information with respect to the discontinued operation is summarized below:

Loss from discontinued operations for fiscal 2006 reflects the accrual of an estimated liability of
$175 related to a New York State Sales tax audit of its Valhalla location, including the DHV
business. Income from discontinued operation, net for fiscal year 2005, includes two months of
operations through the October 1, 2004 disposition date and a gain on the sale of the DHV assets of
$21. Loss from discontinued operation for fiscal 2004 includes impairment charges of $3,481 related
to the write down of the DHV assets to net realizable value, including a goodwill write off of
$1,328 and an intangible asset write off of $125 related to the DHV business. These impairments
were recorded during the second quarter of fiscal year 2004.

4. INVENTORIES

The Company has pledged all of its inventories in the U.S. having a net carrying amount of
approximately $5,009 and $6,203 at July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005, respectively, to secure its
credit facility with its lender.

5. PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property plant and equipment consist of the following:

The Company has pledged all of its property plant and equipment in the U.S. having a net carrying
amount of approximately $1,854 and $1,973 at July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005, respectively, to
secure its credit facility with its lender. Included in property plant and equipment is the Villa
building which is subject to a capital lease. Included in the table above are capital leases in the
amount of $3,889 and $3,747 at July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005, respectively. Accumulated
amortization relating to capital leases was $729 and $590 at July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005,
respectfully. Amortization expense relating to capital leases was $113, $110 and $133 for fiscal
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

F-12 

Table of Contents   

Depreciation expense for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $988, $1,238 and $1,359,
respectively.

6. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

GOODWILL

As of July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005 the Company had goodwill on its balance sheet in the amounts
of $6,437 and $1,911 respectively. In accordance with SFAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets, the Company ceased all goodwill amortization ceased effective August 4, 2002.

As described in Note 2, to this annual report, during fiscal year 2006, the Company completed the
acquisition of the remaining 20% minority interest in its Villa subsidiary and recorded additional
goodwill of $4,526, part of the Medical Systems group.

During fiscal year 2004, due to continuing operating losses at the Company s Del High Voltage
division, the Company concluded that sufficient indicators of impairment were present to warrant a
review of the goodwill and intangible assets of this reporting unit. The Company compared the
implied fair value of the goodwill to the actual carrying value at January 31, 2004, and concluded
an impairment loss of $1,328 had occurred. Accordingly, a charge of $1,328 was recorded during the
second quarter of fiscal year 2004 which is reflected in the loss from Discontinued Operation on
the accompanying financial statements.

During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company conducted its annual goodwill impairment testing,
and concluded that the remaining goodwill, which relates to its Medical Systems Segment, was not
impaired as each respective balance sheet date.

OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

In connection with the adoption of SFAS 142, the Company reviewed the useful lives and the
classification of identifiable intangible assets and determined that they continue to be
appropriate. These identifiable assets were acquired in connection with business combinations prior
to July 1, 2001. As of July 29, 2006 these intangible assets were fully amortized. Amortization
expense for intangible assets during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $38, $65, and $66
respectively

During Fiscal 2004, the Company conducted an impairment test of the carrying value of
non-compete agreements related to the Del High Voltage division. and concluded an impairment loss
of $125 had occurred. Accordingly, the Company recorded a charge of $125 during the second quarter
of fiscal year 2004 which is reflected in the loss from Discontinued Operations on the accompanying
consolidated financial statements.

7. PRODUCT WARRANTIES

The Company s products are covered primarily by one-year warranty plans and in some cases optional
extended contracts may be offered covering products for periods up to five years, depending upon
the product and contractual terms of sale. The Company establishes allowances for warranties on an
aggregate basis for specifically identified, as well as anticipated, warranty claims based on
contractual terms, product conditions and actual warranty experience by product line.

The activity in warranty accounts is as follows:

8. SHORT-TERM CREDIT FACILITIES, LONG-TERM DEBT AND SUBORDINATED NOTE

Short-term credit facilities are summarized as follows:

F-13 

Table of Contents   

On August 1, 2005, the Company entered into a three-year revolving credit and term loan facility
with North Fork Business Capital (the  North Fork Facility ) and repaid the prior facility. The
North Fork Facility provides for a $6,000 formula based revolving credit facility based on the
Company s eligible accounts receivable and inventory as defined in the credit agreement. In
addition, the Company borrowed $2,000 under a term loan facility secured by the Company s Bay
Shore, New York building. Interest on the revolving credit borrowings is payable at prime plus 0.5
% or alternatively at a LIBOR rate plus 2.5%. The $2,000 term loan is repayable in 36 monthly
installments of $17 with a balloon payment of the remaining balance due at the maturity in three
years. Interest on the term loan is payable monthly at prime plus 0.75 % or a LIBOR rate plus
2.75%. North Fork has reserved $1,000 against possible litigation settlements as described more
fully in Legal Proceedings. As of July 29, 2006 the Company had approximately $1,000 of excess
borrowing availability under the North Fork Facility.

The North Fork Facility is subject to commitment fees of 0.5% per annum on the daily-unused portion
of the facility, payable monthly. The Company granted a security interest to the lender on its US
credit facility in substantially all of its accounts receivable, inventory, property plant and
equipment, and intellectual property in the US. Management believes that its debt obligations are
stated at fair value, because the interest rates on its credit lines are indexed with either the
Prime Rate or LIBOR.

As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company was non-compliant with the following
covenants: the Adjusted US Earnings, Adjusted Earnings, Senior US Debt Ratio and Fixed Charge
Coverage Ratio covenants under the North Fork Facility, due to the operating loss the Company
experienced for the first quarter of fiscal 2006. On December 12, 2005, the Company and North Fork
Business Capital signed an amendment to the facility that waived the non-compliance with these
covenants for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and adjusted the covenant levels going forward
through the maturity of the credit facility.

As of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company was non-compliant with the
following covenants: the Adjusted US Earnings, Senior US Debt Ratio, Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
and minimum Tangible Net Worth covenants under the North Fork Facility, due to the operating loss
the Company experienced for the second quarter of fiscal 2006. In March 2006, the Company signed a
waiver to the facility that waived non-compliance with these financial covenants for the second
quarter of fiscal 2006 and waived the non-compliance of a covenant due to a delay in granting the
bank a security interest in two thirds of the shares of Villa required upon consummation of the
purchase of the remaining 20% of Villa by the Company.

As of the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company was non-compliant with the following
covenants: the Adjusted Earnings, Adjusted US Earnings, Senior US Debt Ratio, Fixed Charge Coverage
Ratio and Minimum Tangible Net Worth and Capital Expenditure covenants under the North Fork
Facility, due to less than anticipated results Company experienced for the third quarter of fiscal
2006. In June 2006, the Company received a waiver to the facility that waived non-compliance with
these financial covenants for the third quarter of fiscal 2006.

As of the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company was non-compliant with the
following covenants: the Adjusted US Earnings, Adjusted Earnings, Senior US Debt Ratio and Fixed
Charge Coverage Ratio covenants under the North Fork Facility, due to the lower than anticipated
performance during fiscal 2006. On October 25, 2006, the Company and North Fork Business Capital
signed an amendment to the facility that waived the non-compliance with these covenants for the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and adjusted the covenant levels going forward through the maturity
of the credit facility. In addition the amendment reversed $300 of a sinking fund reserved for the
March 2007 maturity of the subordinated shareholder note and eliminated additional sinking fund
reserves provisions related to the subordinated note.

The Company received a dividend from its Villa subsidiary in October 2006 of approximately
$1,560 which was used to pay down amounts outstanding under the North Fork facility, in accordance
with provisions of the facility.

In addition to the domestic credit facilities discussed above, the Company has certain short-term
credit facilities at its Villa subsidiary, with interest rates ranging from 5.0% to 12.0%. The
total amount outstanding on the Villa short-term credit facilities at July 29, 2006 and July 30,
2005 was $3,287 and $0, respectively. In addition, as of July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005,
approximately $ 4,400 of excess borrowing availability was in place under these facilities.

F-14 

Table of Contents   

LONG-TERM DEBT   Long-term debt was comprised of the following:

The variable interest rate at July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005 on the medium-term credit facility,
based on the formula Euribor   1%, was 3.7%.

The principal of the medium-term credit facility is payable on a semi-annual basis and interest
payments are due on a quarterly basis through March 2007. Payments relating to the two Italian
Government long-term loans are due annually through February 2010, and September 2010,
respectively.

SUBORDINATED NOTE   In connection with the settlement reached on January 29, 2002 with the
plaintiffs in the class action litigation, the Company recorded the present value at 12% of a
$2,000 subordinated note that was issued in April 2002 and matures in March 2007. The subordinated
note does not pay interest currently, but accrues interest at 6% per annum, and was recorded at
issuance at a discounted present value of $1,519. The balance at July 29, 2006 was $2,415 which is
all included in current portion of long-term debt on the accompanying balance sheet. In the event
funds generated from US or Villa operations are not anticipated to be sufficient to both fund US
operations and create a reserve to repay the estimated $2,700 principal and accrued interest due
upon the maturity of the subordinated note, the Company will seek to refinance the subordinated
note.

The Company is obligated to make principal payments under its long-term debt, subordinated note
( Debt ) and capital lease obligations as follows:

9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

The Company has a Profit Sharing Plan that provides for contributions as determined by the Board of
Directors. The contributions can be paid to the Plan in cash or common stock of the Company. No
contributions were authorized for fiscal years ended 2006, 2005 or 2004.

The Profit Sharing Plan also incorporates a 401(k) Retirement Plan that is available to
substantially all employees, allowing them to defer a portion of their salary. Effective February
2003, the Company started matching employee contributions at a 50% rate up to a maximum of 2% of
annual salary, and recorded a related expense of $106, $118 and $136 for fiscal years 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively.

The Company also had a defined benefit plan, which was frozen effective February 1, 1986. As of
July 31, 2004, the Company had a minimum liability and corresponding debit in other comprehensive
income to account for the unfunded status of its defined benefit plan, in accordance with SFAS No.
87. In accordance with SFAS No. 88, at the time of final settlement of the pension plan, the
Company will recognize an expense to the statement of operations for the amount of such debit to
other comprehensive income,

F-15 

Table of Contents   

adjusted for the difference between the cost to settle the pension obligations and the amount of
the recorded net liability. During Fiscal 2005 the Company applied to the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corp and to the IRS for a determination letter and approval to terminate this plan. In the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company recognized a related non-cash charge of approximately $500 to
write of the pension assets on its balance sheet in recognition of the formal decision to terminate
the plan. In preparation for the plan termination, during fiscal 2005 the Company fully funded the
expected cash disbursement of $200 dollars. The Company received the IRS determination letter
approving the final settlement during the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and fully paid out all of
the plan participants in March 2006

In addition, the Company s Villa subsidiary located in Italy provides for employee termination
indemnities. Villa has established a reserve, representing the liability for indemnities payable
upon termination of employment, accrued in accordance with labor laws and labor agreements in
force. This liability is subject to annual revaluation using the officially-established indices.
The liability for these indemnities is included in other long-term liabilities on the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets and was $2,787 and $2,558 at July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005,
respectively. Provisions for employee termination indemnities were $401, $412 and $388 for fiscal
years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

10. SEGMENT REPORTING

The Company has three reportable segments; the Medical Systems Group, the Power Conversion Group
and Other. The segment Other includes unallocated corporate costs and litigation settlement costs.
For each fiscal year presented herein, corporate costs (which include certain shared services) were
allocated to domestic subsidiaries on the basis of a percentage of each unit s annual sales.
Corporate costs were allocated at a fixed dollar amount to the international subsidiary based upon
an intercompany management services agreement. The percentages and the dollar amounts used to
allocate actual corporate costs are based on management s estimate of the benefits received by each
operating segment from corporate activities and shared services.

Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise, about which separate financial
information is available which is evaluated regularly by the chief decision maker, or decision
making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company s
chief operating decision making group is comprised of the Chief Executive Officer and the senior
executives of the Company s operating segments. The Company evaluates its operating segments based
on operating income or loss.

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of
significant accounting policies. The Balance Sheet information presented below and Income Statement
related disclosure below for all periods presented exclude the results of the DHV division due to
this division s classification as a discontinued operation at July 31, 2004 and the subsequent
disposal on October 31, 2004.

Selected financial data of these segments are as follows:

Inter-segment sales were $149 for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2006. Approximately $35,481 of
Medical Systems Group assets are located in Italy.

F-16 

Table of Contents   

Inter-segment sales were $182 for the fiscal year ended July 30, 2005. Approximately $24,704 of
Medical Systems Group assets are located in Italy.

Segment assets for the other segment include $4,369 of assets attributable to the discontinued
operation at net realizable value.

Inter-segment sales were $28 for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2004. Approximately $29,375 of
Medical Systems Group assets are located in Italy.

MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND EXPORT SALES   During fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, no one customer
accounted for more than 10% of the Company s consolidated net sales.

Foreign sales were 64%, 54% and 54% of the Company s consolidated net sales in fiscal years ended
July 29, 2006, July 30, 2005, and July 31, 2004, respectively. Net sales by geographic areas were:

F-17 

Table of Contents   

Revenues are attributable to geographic areas based on the location of the customers.

11. SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)   The components of comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:

STOCK BUY-BACK PROGRAM   In September 2000, the Board of Directors approved an additional
repurchase of $3,000 of the Company s common stock bringing the total authorized to $7,500. The
Company has not purchased any shares under this program since fiscal 2001, when 11,500 shares were
purchased for $108. As of July 29, 2006, 489,806 shares had been purchased by the Company for
$4,502 under this Stock Buy-Back Program. These shares are included in Treasury Shares on the
accompanying Balance Sheet.

PROPOSAL TO INCREASE AUTHORIZED SHARES   The Company has scheduled a Special Meeting of
Shareholders on November 17, 2006 to vote on a proposal to increase the authorized number of
shares of Common Stock from 20,000,000 to 50,000,000 shares in order to have a sufficient number
of shares of Common Stock to provide a reserve of shares available for issuance to meet
business needs as they may arise in the future. Such business needs may include, without
limitation, rights offerings, financings, acquisitions, establishing strategic relationships with
corporate partners, providing equity incentive to employees, officers or directors, stock splits or
similar transactions. Issuances of any additional shares for these or other reasons could prove
dilutive to current shareholders or deter changes in control of the Company, including transactions
where the shareholders could otherwise receive a premium for there shares over then current market
prices.

STOCK OPTION PLAN AND WARRANTS   Effective July 31, 2005, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123 (R),  Share-Based Payments,  which revises SFAS
123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.  This standard requires that the Company measure
the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the
grant date fair value of the award. That cost will be recognized over the period in which the
employee is required to provide the services   the requisite service period (usually the vesting
period)   in exchange for the award. The grant date fair value for options and similar instruments
will be estimated using option pricing models. Under SFAS 123 (R), the Company is required to
select a valuation technique or option pricing model that meets the criteria as stated in the
standard, which includes a binomial model and the Black-Scholes model. At the present time, the
Company is continuing to use the Black-Scholes model. The adoption of SFAS 123 (R), applying the
 modified prospective method,  as elected by the Company requires the Company to value stock
options prior to its adoption of SFAS 123 (R) under the fair value method and expense these amounts
over the remaining vesting period of the stock options. The fair values of the fiscal year 2006
grants were determined by using the following assumptions in the Black-Scholes model: an estimated
life of seven years, volatility of approximately 62%, risk free interest rate from 4.74% to 4.93%
and the assumption that no dividends will be paid. SFAS 123 (R) requires that the Company estimate
forfeitures for stock options and reduce compensation expense accordingly. The Company has reduced
its fiscal year 2006 expense by the assumed forfeiture rate and will evaluate experience against
this forfeiture rate going forward.

The Company has a stock option plan under which a total of 3,874,293 options to purchase common
stock may be granted. Substantially all of the options granted under this Plan provide for graded
vesting and vest generally at a rate of 25% per year beginning with the date of grant, expiring ten
to fifteen years from the date they are granted. The option price per share is approved by the
Board of Directors. All options to date have been granted at the fair market value of the Company s
stock at the date of grant. No options can be granted under this plan subsequent to December 31,
2009.

In December 2000, the Board of Directors approved an extension of time to exercise for all stock
option holders. The extension covers all options whose term would have expired during the period
from the stock de-listing date up to the date that the shares become re-listed on a national
exchange. This extension grants those stock option holders a period of six months from the date of
re-listing to exercise vested options which may have otherwise expired without the extension.
Options that otherwise expired due to termination

F-18 

Table of Contents   

of employment for cause were not effected by this extension During Fiscal 2005, the plan was
modified to remove this extension provision from options granted after January 2005. The majority
of the Company s stock options have a 10 year term, however, due to uncertainty regarding the
duration of this extension, the Company cannot calculate the weighted average remaining contractual
term of outstanding or vested options.

OPTION ACTIVITY

The following stock option information is as of:

As mentioned above, due to an extension of exercise time granted to option holders that has an
uncertain term, the Company is unable to calculate the weighted average contractual term of the
above options.

As of July 29, 2006 the distribution of stock option exercise prices is as follows:

At July 29, 2006, the aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and options exercisable was
$231. The intrinsic value is the amount by which the market value of the underlying stock exceeds
the exercise price of the option.

Subsequent to the adoption of FAS 123R, the Company recognized $141 in compensation expense related
to stock options during fiscal 2006. An expense was recognized for the fair value of options
granted to non-employees in the amount of $38 in both fiscal years 2005, and 2004. Future
compensation expense related to the vesting of options granted in fiscal years 2004 through 2006 is
expected to be $76 in 2007, $58 in 2008 and $25 in 2009.

Cash proceeds and intrinsic value related to total stock options exercised are provided in the
following table:

F-19 

Table of Contents   

WARRANTS

On February 6, 2004, a motion was filed for summary judgment to enforce a January 2002 class action
settlement agreement entered into by the Company. The motion sought damages in the amount of $1,250
together with interest, costs and disbursements, and a declaration that $2,000 in promissory notes
issued as part of the class action settlement are immediately due and payable, as the value of
damages due to the Company s failure to timely complete a registration statement related to the
common shares underlying certain warrants granted in the class action settlement. The Company filed
opposition to this matter on March 5, 2004. Plaintiffs filed reply papers on March 19, 2004. In
addition, the Company filed a registration statement related to the warrant shares on March 23,
2004, and it was declared effective by the SEC on May 7, 2004. In July 2004, in settlement of this
matter, Del Global modified the exercise, or  strike,  price of the 1,000,000 warrants issued in
2002 from $2.00 to $1.50 per share, and extended the expiration date of such warrants by one year
to March 28, 2009. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company recorded a charge of
approximately $500 to litigation settlement costs in recognition of the modification to the
warrants and the related legal and professional fees incurred. During fiscal 2006 and 2005, 1,574
and 58,006, respectively, of these warrants were exercised. As of July 29, 2006, 940,370 of these
warrants was outstanding.

12. INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE

Common shares outstanding for the fiscal years ended July 29, 2006, July 30, 2005 and July 31,
2004, were reduced by 622,770, 622,770 and 643,533 shares of treasury stock, respectively.

The computation of diluted shares outstanding does not include the effect of the assumed conversion
of 1,180,389, 545,622 and 2,133,415 for employee stock options outstanding as of July 29, 2006,
July 30, 2005 and July 31, 2004, respectively, and 474,113, 428,919 and 1,065,000 warrants to
purchase Company common stock for those years because the effect of their assumed conversion would
be anti-dilutive.

13. INCOME TAXES

The Company s consolidated income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax benefit and
minority interest for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 of $2,135, 2,640 and ($1,479) reflects a
U.S. pre-tax loss of $1,485, $1,202 and $5,126, respectively, offset by foreign pre-tax net income
of $3,620, $3,842, and $3,647 for fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Provision (Benefit) for income taxes consists of the following:

F-20 

Table of Contents   

The following is a reconciliation of the statutory Federal and effective income tax rates:

Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) are comprised of the following:

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as follows:

DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSET

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities represent the effects of the differences between the
income tax basis and financial reporting basis of the assets and liabilities at the tax rates
expected at the time the deferred tax liability or asset is expected to be settled or realized.

The Company recorded valuation allowances of $17,758 and $19,776 as of July 29, 2006 and July 30,
2005, respectively, against all U.S. current and long-term deferred tax assets. The reduction in
the fiscal 2006 valuation allowance of $2,018 was due to a decrease in the net deferred tax assets
during the year. In evaluating the Company s ability to recover its deferred tax assets, the
Company considered all available positive and negative evidence, including its past operating
results, the existence of cumulative losses in its U.S. operations, and other factors that together
make it more likely than not that the Company s deferred tax assets are not presently expected to
be realized. Changes in valuation allowances from period to period are included in the income tax
provision in the period of change. The valuation recorded is the estimate of the amount of
deferred tax assets that more likely than not will not be realized. As of July 29, 2006 and July
30, 2005, the accumulated allowance covers all U.S. domestic current and long-term
deferred income tax assets.

The Company had federal and state net operating losses as of July 29, 2006 of approximately $45,888
and $20,857, respectively. These loss carry forwards will expire at various dates through 2026.
For foreign tax purposes, our Villa subsidiary has utilized all of its available net operating loss
carry forwards.

We recorded a tax provision with respect to Villa s income in all periods presented and anticipate
it is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax asset which relates to Villa will be
utilized against its future operating profits. We have also concluded that, given our history of
receiving dividends from Villa, we could no longer assume that the
income of Villa would be permanently reinvested. As required by SFAS 109, we recorded a deferred
tax liability related to the undistributed earnings of Villa. However, we can make no assurances
that Villa will generate profits in the future or that future dividends will be received.

F-21 

Table of Contents   

14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

a. 
       
     EMPLOYMENT MATTERS   The Company had an employment agreement with Samuel Park, the
previous Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ), for the period May 1, 2001 to April 30, 2004. The
employment agreement provided for certain payments in the event of a change in the control
of the Company. 

On October 10, 2003, the Company announced the appointment of Walter F. Schneider as President
and CEO to replace Mr. Park, effective as of such date. As a result, the Company recorded a
charge of $200 during the first quarter of fiscal 2004 to accrue the balance remaining under
Mr. Park s employment agreement. 

The Company s Board of Directors, elected at the Company s Annual Meeting of Shareholders held
on May 29, 2003, had reviewed the  change of control  provisions regarding payments totaling up
to approximately $1,800 under the employment agreement between the Company and its former CEO,
Samuel Park. As a result of this review and based upon, among other things, the advice of
special counsel, the Company s Board of Directors determined that no obligation to pay these
amounts has been triggered. Prior to his departure from the Company on October 10, 2003, Mr.
Park orally informed the Company that, after reviewing the matter with his counsel, he believed
that the obligation to pay these amounts has been triggered. On October 27, 2003, the Company
received a letter from Mr. Park s counsel demanding payment of certain sums and other
consideration pursuant to the Company s employment agreement with Mr. Park, including these
change of control payments. On November 17, 2003, the Company filed a complaint in the United
States District Court, Southern District of New York against Mr. Park seeking a declaratory
judgment that no change in control payment was or is due to Mr. Park, and that an amendment to
the employment contract with Mr. Park regarding advancement and reimbursement of legal fees is
invalid and unenforceable. Mr. Park answered the complaint and asserted counterclaims seeking
payment from the Company based on his position that a  change in control  occurred in June
2003. Mr. Park is also seeking other consideration he believes he is owed under his employment
agreement. The Company filed a reply to Mr. Park s counterclaims denying that he is entitled to
any of these payments. Discovery in this matter was conducted and completed. Following
discovery, the Company and Mr. Park filed motions for summary judgment on the issues related to
the change in control and the amendment to the employment agreement, which motions have been
fully submitted to the court for consideration. To date, no decision has been issued by the
court on these motions. If Mr. Park prevails on his claims and the payments he seeks are
required to be paid in a lump sum, these payments may have a material adverse effect on the
Company s liquidity. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these claims. However, the
Company s Board of Directors does not believe that such a claim is reasonably likely to result
in a material decrease in the Company s liquidity in the foreseeable future. The Company has
not recorded an accrual for any potential settlements of this claim as it has no basis upon
which to estimate either the outcome or amount of loss. 

In July 2006 the Company signed a separation agreement with Walter Schneider the President and
CEO who replaced Mr. Park. Terms of the separation agreement provides for the payment of Mr.
Schneider s annual salary of $300 over a one year period and provided for the continuation of
medical benefits to Mr. Schneider at his then current contribution and coverage levels. In
July 2006 the Company recorded a charge of $307 to accrue the future amounts payable to Mr.
Schneider under this agreement. 

On June 28, 2002, Jeffrey N. Moeller, the former Director of Quality Assurance and Regulatory
Affairs of Del Medical, commenced an action in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, against
the Company, Del Medical and Walter Schneider, the former President of Del Medical. In the most
current iteration of this pleading, the third amended complaint, Mr. Moeller alleges four claims
against the defendants in the action: (1) retaliatory discharge from employment with Del Medical,
allegedly in response to Mr. Moeller s complaints to officers of Del Medical about purported
prebilling and his stopping shipment of a product that allegedly did not meet regulatory standards,
(2) defamation, (3) intentional interference with his employment relationship with Del Medical and
prospective employers, and (4) to hold the Company liable for any misconduct of Del Medical under a
theory of piercing the corporate veil. On September 13, 2006, the Court heard oral argument on
defendants  motion requesting summary judgment dismissing the

F-22 

Table of Contents   

third-amended complaint. Defendants  request for summary judgment dismissing the entirety of
the third-amended complaint was not granted, and a jury trial of the action is scheduled to
commence on November 13, 2006. The Company and Del Medical intend to defend vigorously against Mr.
Moeller s claims. Mr. Moeller is seeking $1,931 in damages consisting of income loss, including
salary and benefits, and the present value of his lost income and benefits in the future after lump
sum tax adjustments. The Company has
not recorded an accrual for any potential settlements of this claim as it has no basis upon
which to estimate either the outcome or amount of loss.

b. 
       
     LEASE COMMITMENTS   The Company leases facilities for its corporate offices and
manufacturing operations with expiration dates ranging from 2004 through 2008. In addition,
the Company has various office equipment and auto leases accounted for as operating leases.
The future minimum annual lease commitments as of July 29, 2006 are as follows: 

Rent expense for fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004 was $300, $336 and $385, respectively.

c. 
       
     OTHER LEGAL MATTERS   In addition, the Company is a defendant in several other legal
actions in various US and foreign jurisdictions arising from normal course of business.
Management believes the Company has meritorious defenses to such actions and that the
outcomes will not be material to the Company s consolidated financial statements 

F-23 

Table of Contents   

15. SUPPLEMENTAL QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

YEAR ENDED JULY 29, 2006:

YEAR ENDED JULY 30, 2005:

(2) 
       
     Continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 reflect the non-cash write-off of
$492 of pension assets as a result of the Company s decision to terminate a frozen pension
plan related to the Del High Voltage division. 

F-24 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Del Global Technology Corp. 
Franklin Park, Illinois

The audits referred to in our report dated October 6, 2006 except for Note 8, which is as of October 25, 2006 relating to the consolidated financial
statements of Del Global Technology Corp., as of and for the years ended July 29, 2006 and July 30,
2005, which is contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, included the audit of the financial statement
schedule listed in the accompanying index for the same periods. This financial statement schedule
is the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
this financial statement schedule based upon our audits.

In our opinion such financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein for the years ended July 29, 2006 and July 30, 2005.

/s/ BDO Seidman, LLP 
Valhalla, New York

F-25 

Table of Contents   

(3) DEL GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

(1) 
       
     Write-off of accounts receivable and inventories previously charged to costs and expenses. 

F-26 

<EX-10.62>
 2
 c09365exv10w62.htm
 WAIVER AND THIRD AMENDMENT TO THE LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

exv10w62 

Exhibit 10.62 

WAIVER AND THIRD AMENDMENT 

WAIVER AND THIRD AMENDMENT,  dated as of October 25, 2006 (this  Amendment ), to the Loan and
Security Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2005 (the  Loan Agreement ), among Del Global
Technologies Corp. ( Del Global ), RFI Corporation and Del Medical Imaging Corp. (collectively, the
 Borrowers ) and North Fork Business Capital Corporation (the  Lender ). Capitalized terms used
herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Loan
Agreement.

W I T N E S S E T H : 

WHEREAS , the Borrowers and the Lender are parties to the Loan Agreement, under which the
Lender has agreed to make, and has made, Loans and other extensions of credit and accommodations to
the Borrowers on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein; and

WHEREAS , the Borrowers have requested that the Lender agree, and the Lender has agreed, (i) to
waive Events of Default that have occurred and are continuing and (ii) to amend certain provisions
of the Loan Agreement, each upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.

NOW, THEREFORE,  the Borrowers and the Lender agree as follows:

SECTION 1    Waiver   .  Effective as of the date hereof, the Lender hereby waives
compliance with Sections 8.1(b), 8.2, 8.3(b), 8.4, 8.5(b) and 8.7 of the Loan Agreement solely to
the extent of the Borrowers  failure to comply with the covenant contained therein for the period
ended July 31, 2006.

SECTION 2    Amendments to the Loan Agreement  . Effective as of the date hereof, the Loan
Agreement is amended as follows:

(a) The definition of  Adjusted U.S. Earnings  contained in Section 1.1 of the Loan Agreement
is amended and restated as follows:

Adjusted U.S. Earnings   means Adjusted Earnings without
giving effect to the net income of Villa Sistemi or any adjustments
thereto, but including any dividends received from Villa Sistemi. 

(b) Section 7.2(c) is amended and restated as follows:

(c)  Corporate Changes, Etc.  Each Borrower will not, and
will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly,
merge or consolidate with any Person or amend, alter or modify its
Governing Documents or its legal name, mailing address, chief
executive office or principal places of business, structure, status
or existence, or liquidate or dissolve itself (or suffer any
liquidation or dissolution) or issue any capital stock or other
equity interests

other than (i) the issuance of shares of capital
stock by Del Global upon the exercise of warrants for shares of
capital stock of Del Global or the issuance of any other capital
stock of Del Global so long as all the Net Cash Proceeds thereof are
applied to the outstanding amount of the Loans within three Business
Days of receipt thereof ; (ii) the issuance of shares of capital
stock by Del Global in exchange for shares of Villa Sistemi s
capital stock not owned by Del Global as of the Closing Date; (iii)
the issuance of shares of capital stock of Del Global in connection
with a rights offering, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Lender and (iv) an amendment to the certificate of incorporation of
Del Global to increase the aggregate number of shares of common
stock authorized to be issued by Del Global from 20,000,000 to
50,000,000. 

(c) Section 8.1(b) is amended and restated as follows:

(b) After the Lender receives the Financial Statements and other
documents required under Section 7.1(k)(i) with respect to the
fiscal year ended July 29, 2006 and so long as no Default has
occurred and is continuing and ExcessAvailability is at least
$500,000, the Adjusted U.S. Earnings for any period set forth below
shall not be less than the amount set forth below opposite such
period:

(d) Section 8.2 is amended and restated as follows:

SECTION 8.2  Adjusted Earnings . The Adjusted Earnings for any period set
forth below shall not be less than the amount set forth below opposite such period:

2 

(e) Section 8.3(b) is amended and restated as follows:

(b) After the Lender receives the Financial Statements and other
documents required under Section 7.1(k)(i) with respect to the
fiscal year ended July 29, 2006 and so long as no Default has
occurred and is continuing and Excess Availability is at least
$500,000, the ratio of (i) the outstanding amount of all Loans and
all outstanding Letters of Credit to (ii) Adjusted U.S. Earnings (on
an annualized basis) shall not, as of the last day of any period set
forth below, be greater than the ratio set forth below opposite such
period:

(f) Section 8.4 is amended and restated as follows:

SECTION 8.4  Senior Debt Ratio . The ratio of (i) the outstanding amount of all
Loans and all outstanding Letters of Credit to (ii) Adjusted Earnings (on an annualized
basis) shall not, as of the last day of any period set forth below, be greater than the
ratio set forth below opposite such period:

3 

(g) Section 8.5(b) is amended and restated as follows:

(b) After the Lender receives the Financial Statements and other
documents required under Section 7.1(k)(i) with respect to the
fiscal year ended July 30, 2006 and so long as no Default has
occurred and is continuing and Excess Availability is at least
$500,000, the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for any period set forth
below shall not be less than the ratio set forth below opposite such
period:

(h) Section 8.7 is amended and restated as follows:

Capital Expenditures . The aggregate amount of Borrowers  consolidated Capital
Expenditures made or committed to be made in any fiscal year commencing with the fiscal year
ending July 30, 2007, shall not exceed $400,000. 

(i) Section 2.1(a) is amended and restated as follows:

(a) The Lender agrees, subject to Section 2.5 and the other terms
and conditions of this Agreement, to make loans ( Revolving Credit
Loans ) to the Borrowers, from time to time

4 

from the Closing Date to
but excluding the Expiration Date, at the Administrative Borrower s
request to the Lender, in the aggregate principal amount at any one
time outstanding which, when combined with the aggregate undrawn
amount of all unexpired Letters of Credit, does not exceed (i) 85%
of Eligible Receivables  plus  (ii) 40% of Eligible Inventory,
all of the foregoing  less  such reserves as the Lender may
establish in its sole discretion including, without limitation a
reserve in an amount equal to twice the amount of any dilution of
the Borrower s Receivables from time to time (the  Borrowing Base 
 provided ,  however , that in no event shall the
aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Loans and the Letters of
Credit outstanding at any time(x) in respect of Eligible Inventory
exceed $2,000,000 or (y) exceed the Maximum Amount of the Revolving
Facility. 

(j) The $300,000 sinking fund reserve taken in March 2006 pursuant to Section 2.1(a) is hereby
reversed.

(k) Section 2.5(b)(iv) is hereby deleted in its entirety.

(l) The definition of  Sinking Fund Reserve  contained in Section 1.1 is hereby deleted in its
entirety.

SECTION 3    Conditions of Effectiveness  . This Amendment shall become effective when,
and only when, the Lender shall have received (a) counterparts of this Amendment, duly executed by
the Borrowers, and (b) payment of the costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable
attorneys  fees) incurred by the Lender in connection with this Amendment.

SECTION 4    Representations and Warranties of the Borrowers  . Each Borrower represents
and warrants as follows:

(a) Such Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under
the laws of the State of New York or Delaware, as the case may be, and is qualified to do business
under the laws of such other jurisdictions in which its failure to so qualify could have a Material
Adverse Effect.

(b) The execution, delivery and performance by such Borrower of this Amendment (i) are within
such Borrower s corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and
do not contravene (A) such Borrower s Governing Documents, (B) any Requirement of Law or (C) any
Material Contract and (ii) will not result in or require the creation or imposition of any Lien
upon or with respect to any property now owned or hereafter acquired by such Borrower.

5 

(c) No authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any
Governmental Authority or other Person is required for the due execution, delivery and performance
by such Borrower of this Amendment.

(d) This Amendment and the Loan Agreement as amended hereby constitute the legal, valid and
binding obligations of such Borrower enforceable against such Borrower in accordance with their
respective terms except as enforceability may be limited by (i) bankruptcy, insolvency or similar
laws affecting creditors  rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity.

(e) Except as specified in Schedule 6.1(r) to the Loan Agreement and the litigation between
Del Global and Jeffrey Moeller, there is no pending or, to the best of such Borrower s knowledge
after due inquiry, threatened litigation, contested claim, investigation, arbitration or
governmental proceeding by or against such Borrower before any court, Governmental Authority or
arbitrator which individually or in the aggregate could reasonably be expected to have a Material
Adverse Effect or which purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this
Amendment or the Loan Agreement as amended hereby.

(f) Except as specified in Section 1 hereof, no Default has occurred and is continuing.

SECTION 5    Reference to and Effect on the Loan Agreement   . 

(a) On and after the date hereof, each reference in the Loan Agreement to  this Agreement, 
 hereunder,   hereof,   herein  and words of like import, and each reference in the other Loan
Documents to the Loan Agreement shall mean and be a reference to the Loan Agreement as amended
hereby.

(b) Except as specifically waived or amended above, (i) the Loan Agreement and each other Loan
Document shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed by each of the
parties hereto and (ii) the Lender shall not be deemed to have waived any rights or remedies it may
have under the Loan Agreement, any other Loan Document or applicable law.

(c) The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not, except as expressly
provided herein, operate as a waiver of or an amendment to any right, power or remedy of the Lender
under any of the Loan Documents, or constitute a waiver of or an amendment to any provision of any
of the Loan Documents.

SECTION 6    Costs and Expenses  . The Borrowers agree to pay, on demand, all reasonable
out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by the Lender in connection with the preparation,
negotiation and execution of this Amendment (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and
expenses of counsel to the Lender).

SECTION 7    Counterparts; Telecopied Signatures   .  This Amendment may be executed in
counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when

6 

so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall together constitute one
and the same instrument. This Amendment may be executed and delivered by telecopier or other
facsimile transmission with the same force and effect as if the same were a fully executed and
delivered original manual counterpart.

SECTION 8    GOVERNING LAW   .  THE VALIDITY, INTERPRETATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THIS
AMENDMENT AND ANY DISPUTE ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AMENDMENT, WHETHER SOUNDING IN
CONTRACT, TORT OR EQUITY OR OTHERWISE, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE INTERNAL LAWS (AS OPPOSED TO THE
CONFLICTS OF LAW PROVISIONS) AND DECISIONS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

SIGNATURES CONTINUE ON FOLLOWING PAGE 

7 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their
respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.

DEL GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES CORP. 

By:   
     /s/ Mark A. Zorko

Name:   
     Mark A. Zorko  

Title:   
     Chief Financial Officer  

RFI CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Mark A. Zorko

Name:   
     Mark A. Zorko  

Title:   
     Chief Financial Officer  

DEL MEDICAL IMAGING CORP. 

By:   
     /s/ Mark A. Zorko

Name:   
     Mark A. Zorko  

Title:   
     Chief Financial Officer  

NORTH FORK BUSINESS CAPITAL CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/  Robert R. Wallace

Name:   
     Robert R. Wallace  

Title:   
     Vice President  

8 

</EX-10.62>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 c09365exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

exv23w1 

EXHIBIT 23.1

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements No.
333-38024, No. 333-69723, No. 033-09133, No. 033-65439, No. 033-78910, No.
033-52088, and No. 033-19772 of Del Global Technologies Corp. each on Form S-8,
in Registration Statement No. 333-113866 of Del Global Technologies Corp. on
Form S-1 and Registration Statement No. 333-38042 of Del Global Technologies
Corp. on Form S-3 of our report dated October 28, 2004, appearing in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K of Del Global Technologies Corp. for the fiscal year ended
July 29, 2006.

DELOITTE AND TOUCHE, LLP

New York, New York

October 6, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 4
 c09365exv23w2.htm
 CONSENT OF BDO SEIDMAN, LLP

exv23w2 

Exhibit 23.2

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Del Global Technologies Corp. 
Valhalla, New York

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements No.
333-38024, No. 333-69723, No. 033-09133, No. 033-65439, No. 033-78910, No.
033-52088, and No. 033-19772 of Del Global Technologies Corp. each on Form S-8,
in Registration Statement No. 333-113866 of Del Global Technologies Corp. on
Form S-1 and Registration Statement No. 333-38042 of Del Global Technologies
Corp. on Form S-3 of our reports dated October 6, 2006 except for Note 8, which is as of October 25, 2006, appearing in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Del Global Technologies Corp. for the fiscal year
ended July 29, 2006.

BDO SEIDMAN, LLP

Valhalla, New York

October 25, 2006

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 c09365exv31w1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATIONS

I, James A. Risher, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Del Global Technologies Corp.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth
fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control
over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability
to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: October 27, 2006

/s/ James A. Risher

James A. Risher 

Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 c09365exv31w2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 
CERTIFICATIONS

I, Mark A Zorko, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Del Global Technologies Corp.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth
fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: October 27, 2006

/s/ Mark A Zorko

Mark A Zorko

Principal Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 c09365exv32w1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer (1)

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as created by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
the following certification is being made to accompany the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the period ended July 29, 2006:

In connection with the Annual Report of Del Global Technologies Corp. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K
for the period ended July 29, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), I, James A. Risher, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
that to my knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as
applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ James A. Risher

Name: James A. Risher

Title: Chief Executive Officer 

Date: October 27, 2006 

(1) A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
Del Global Technologies Corp and will be retained by Del Global Technologies Corp. and furnished to
the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not
being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 c09365exv32w2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2

Certification of Principal Financial Officer (1)

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as created by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
the following certification is being made to accompany the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the period ended July 30, 2005:

In connection with the Annual Report of Del Global Technologies Corp. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K
for the period ended July 30, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), I, Mark Koch, Principal Accounting Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant
to 18 U.S.C.   1350, adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that to my
knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as
applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ Mark A Zorko

Name: Mark A Zorko

Title: Principal Financial Officer 

Date: October 27, 2006 

(1) A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
Del Global Technologies Corp and will be retained by Del Global Technologies Corp. and furnished to
the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not
being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

</EX-32.2>

