<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061013_10-K_edgar_data_75829_0001125282-06-006276_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2658047</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>331111</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>12994</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>753932</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>70</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001125282-06-006276.hdr.sgml : 20061013
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061013120859
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001125282-06-006276
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		23
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060731
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061013
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061013

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PALL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000075829
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, NEC [3569]
		IRS NUMBER:				111541330
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0705

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-04311
		FILM NUMBER:		061143639

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 NORTHERN BLVD
		CITY:			EAST HILLS
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			11548
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5164845400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 NORTHERN BLVD
		CITY:			EAST HILLS
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			11548

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 O9GVHII0OfnUoF40HCIgt5OINS58sFrWG5Cz1CNohaJHY2bjCAGmDYqpZXQPwMG5
 8R46AsB5Onid/iIgAJ89Jw==

 0001125282-06-006276.txt : 20061013

10-K
 1
 b415205_10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Prepared and filed by St Ives Financial 

UNITED
  STATES    

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-K   

For the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006   

   or   

For the transition period from        to  

   Commission File Number 1- 4311   

   PALL CORPORATION   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

New York   
 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   
           11-1541330   
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

(516) 484-5400   

  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)  

  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of each class       

Name of each exchange on which registered         

Common Stock, $.10 par value    

New York Stock Exchange      

Common Share Purchase Rights    

New York Stock Exchange       

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None  

  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes   No     

Indicate
          by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
          to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes      
          No           

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirement for the past 90 days.  Yes         No      

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.      

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See Definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  

  Large Accelerated Filer            Accelerated Filer                Non-accelerated Filer      

Indicate
          by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined
          in Rule12b-2 of the Act). Yes            
          No           

The aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price of a share of common stock on January 31, 2006 (the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter) was $3,587,876,704.  

  On September 26, 2006, there were 122,234,443 outstanding shares of the registrant s common stock, $.10 par value.  

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:   

  Portions of the registrant s proxy statement for the 2006 annual meeting of shareholders, scheduled to be held on November 15, 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the  Proxy Statement ), are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.  

TABLE
  OF CONTENTS   

Page
          No.           

PART
          I          

Item
          1.           

Business.           
       
            3           

Item
          1A.           

Risk
          Factors.           
       
            6           

Item
          1B.           

Unresolved
          Staff Comments.           
       
            7           

Item
          2.           

Properties.           
       
            8           

Item
          3.           

Legal
          Proceedings.           
       
            9           

Item
          4.           

Submission
          of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders and Executive Officers of the
          Registrant.           
       
            12           

PART
          II          

Item
          5.           

Market
          for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
          and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.           
       
            13           

Item
          6.           

Selected
          Financial Data.           
       
            14           

Item
          7.           

Management s
          Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.           
       
            15           

Item
                 7A.           

Quantitative
          and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.           
       
            30           

Item
          8.           

Financial
          Statements and Supplementary Data.           
       
            31           

Item
          9.              

Changes
          In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.           
       
            31           

Item
                 9A    .          

Controls
          and Procedures.           
       
            32           

Item
          9B.           

Other
          Information.           
       
            33           

PART
          III          

Item
          10.           

Directors
          and Executive Officers of the Registrant.           
       
            34           

Item
          11.           

Executive
          Compensation.           
       
            34           

Item
          12.           

Security
          Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners And Management and Related Stockholder
          Matters.           
       
            34           

Item
          13.           

Certain
          Relationships and Related Transactions.           
       
            34           

Item
          14.           

Principal
          Accounting Fees And Services.           
       
            34           

PART
          IV          

Item
          15.           

Exhibits
          and Financial Statement Schedules.           
       
            35           

SIGNATURES            
       
            38           

REPORT
          OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            
       
            39           

FINANCIAL
          STATEMENT SCHEDULE II       
             VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS            
       
            77           

Back to Contents   

PART I    

      ITEM
  1. BUSINESS.    

   GENERAL:   

  Pall Corporation, a New York corporation incorporated in July 1946, and its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively called the  Company  or referred to as  we  or  our  unless the context requires otherwise) is a leading supplier of integrated filtration, separation and purification technologies, principally made by the Company using its engineering capability, proprietary filter media, and other fluid clarification and separations equipment for the removal of solid, liquid and gaseous contaminants from a wide variety of liquids and gases.   

  We serve customers in two principal business groups: Life Sciences and Industrial. The Life Sciences business group is focused on developing, manufacturing and selling products to customers in the Medical and BioPharmaceuticals marketplaces. The Industrial business group is focused on developing, manufacturing and selling products to customers in the Aerospace, Microelectronics and General Industrial marketplaces. These business groups are supported by shared and corporate services groups that facilitate the Company s corporate governance and business activities globally. The transition to this business structure began in fiscal year 2005 and was substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2006. While there is overlap in the intellectual property that underlies the products sold by the business groups, we believe that this structure positions the Company for future profitable
growth. This business structure holistically focuses on the global marketplace presenting opportunities for efficiencies and cost reduction in all of the business groups while leveraging our entire intellectual property portfolio to the marketplaces efficiently.   

  With few exceptions, research activities conducted by the Company are Company sponsored. Research expenditures totaled $57,371,000 in 2006, $56,183,000 in 2005 and  $57,279,000 in 2004.  

  No one customer provided 10% or more of the Company s consolidated sales in fiscal years 2006, 2005 or 2004.  

  The Company is in substantial compliance with federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. To date, compliance with environmental matters has not had a material effect upon the Company s capital expenditures or competitive position. For a further description of environmental matters in this report, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and the Contingencies and Commitments note in the notes accompanying the consolidated financial statements.   

  At July 31, 2006, the Company employed approximately 10,828 persons.  

  For financial information of the Company by market segment and geography, please see the Segment Information and Geographies note in the notes accompanying the consolidated financial statements of the Company and the sections under the captions  Review of Market Segments and Geographies  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7 of this report).  

  Additional information about the Company is available on its website at www.pall.com. The Company s periodic and current reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) are also available free of charge on its website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  

   OPERATIONS:   

  Pall
  Corporation is a broad-based filtration, separation and purification company.
  Our proprietary products are used to discover, develop and produce synthetically
  and organically derived drugs as well as vaccines, produce safe drinking water,
  protect hospital patients as in the case of our blood filters, bacterial detection
  systems and hospital water filtration products, enhance the quality and efficiency
  of manufacturing processes, keep equipment such as manufacturing equipment and
  airplanes running efficiently and protect the environment. Requirements for
  product quality, purity, environmental preservation, health and safety apply
  to a wide range of industries and across geographic borders. We have a 60-year
  history of commercializing successful products and continue to develop new materials
  and technologies for our Life Sciences and Industrial customers and their increasingly
  difficult fluid filtration, purification and separation challenges. We have
  an array of core materials and technologies that can be combined and manipulated
  in many ways to solve complex fluid separation challenges. These proprietary
  materials, coupled with our ability to engineer them into useful forms and place
  them into fully integrated systems, are the cornerstone of our capabilities.
  Our proprietary materials enable us to provide customers with products that
  are well matched to their needs, to develop new products and to enter new markets.  

3  

Back to Contents   

We actively pursue applications in which Pall products can make a substantial difference to the customer and especially target projects, under the umbrella of our Total Fluid Management ( TFM ) strategy, whereby we can engineer integrated filtration, purification and separation system solutions that will enhance performance and economics. Our TFM strategy utilizes all of our resource capabilities to help our customers improve operating efficiencies within their processes through the optimal selection and integrated use of filtration and separation products. This approach makes use of our engineering and scientific expertise in process fluid flow to create unique cost-effective solutions for our customers. Our integrated systems solutions are an important part of this approach which tends to couple or automate filtration/separation steps for greater ease and economy of use. These
systems typically include our proprietary consumable filtration products which, when fully commissioned, expect to provide for an ongoing annuity stream primarily through the sales of our consumable filtration products. Systems represent a growing portion of our revenues. Consumable filtration products sold are principally filters made with proprietary Pall filter media produced by chemical film casting, melt blowing of polymer fibers, papermaking and metallurgical processes. Metal and plastic housings for our filters and a wide variety of appurtenant devices are also produced.   

  Competition is intense in all of our markets and includes many small and large companies in our global markets. However, in many of the markets in which we participate, there are significant barriers to entry limiting the number of qualified suppliers. These barriers are the result of needing specific regulatory qualification or validation and/or the critical technical performance and reliability of the products that must be provided. Our broad array of patented materials and product designs coupled with our engineering and manufacturing expertise and our global reach enables us to provide our customer base with differentiated product performance and value.   

   LIFE SCIENCES GROUP:    

  In the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, the Biosciences division results, which were previously part of the BioPharmaceuticals segment, have been recorded within the Medical segment. Life Sciences segment information for the prior period has been restated for this change.  

  Our Life Sciences technologies facilitate the process of drug discovery, development and production through use by the medical community. Pall technologies are also used at the point of patient care. Our broad capability in the life sciences industry is a competitive strength and an important element of our strategy going forward.  

  Sales in the medical and biopharmaceuticals markets are made through direct sales and through distribution. Backlog information is omitted for these markets, as we do not consider it meaningful to an understanding of these portions of the Company s business.   

  Safety, efficacy, ease of use, technical support, product delivery and price are all important considerations among our life sciences customers. Pricing for our blood filtration products has become a major consideration as our customers have increasingly become large centralized procurers, such as blood centers in the Western Hemisphere and nationalized blood services in Europe. Our principal competitors in the Medical space include Baxter, Asahi Medical, MacoPharma, Terumo and Fresenius, and our principal competitors in the BioPharmaceuticals space include Millipore, Sartorius and CUNO (a 3M company) and Amersham Biosciences (part of GE Healthcare).  

  MEDICAL:   

  Our Medical products improve the safety of blood transfusions and help control the spread of infections in hospitals. The Company s products are also used in research laboratories in drug discovery, gene manipulation and proteomics applications. Products related to transfusion safety are the Company s largest product family. Our blood filters separate the various components of donor blood (red blood cells, plasma and platelets) for specified reuse in patient care and remove unwanted components and viruses. For example, our filters can remove unwanted white cells and infectious prions from donor blood. Pall s enhanced Bacterial Detection System tests platelets for the presence of bacteria prior to transfusion. Prion reduction and bacterial detection are newer market opportunities for us. Hospital acquired infections continue to be a major problem for the world s health
care systems. Our water, breathing circuit, intravenous filters and other medical devices help protect patients from costly infections.   

  BIOPHARMACEUTICALS:   

  We
  sell separation systems and disposable filters primarily to pharmaceutical and
  biotechnology companies for use by them in their development and commercialization
  of synthetically and organically derived drugs and vaccines. We provide a broad
  range of advanced filtration solutions for each critical stage of drug development
  through drug production. Our filtration systems and validation services allow
  drug manufacturers a quick and reliable path through the regulatory process
  and on to the market.  

We believe that our established record of product performance and innovation, as well as our ability to sell a complete range of products and integrated systems solutions, gives us a strong competitive advantage among biopharmaceutical customers because of the high costs and safety risks associated with drug development and production.   

4  

Back to Contents   

INDUSTRIAL GROUP:    

  We provide enabling and process enhancing technologies throughout the industrial marketplace. This includes the aerospace, microelectronics, municipal and industrial water, fuels, chemicals, energy, and food and beverage markets. We have the capability to provide customers with integrated solutions for all of their process fluids.  

  GENERAL INDUSTRIAL:   

  Included in this diverse space are sales of filters, coalescers and integrated separation systems for hydraulic, fuel and lubrication systems on mechanical equipment across many industries, as well as to producers of energy (i.e., oil, gas, electricity and chemicals), food and beverages, municipal and industrial water. Virtually all of the raw materials, process fluids and waste streams that course through industry are candidates for multiple stages of filtration, separations and purification.   

  We believe that technologies that purify water for use and reuse represent an important opportunity. Governments around the world are implementing stringent new regulations governing drinking water standards and we believe that our filters and systems provide a solution for these requirements. These standards apply to municipal water supplies throughout the U.S. and in a growing number of countries. Industry, which consumes enormous quantities of water, also increasingly needs to filter water before, during and after use both to conserve it and to ensure it meets discharge requirements. Opportunities to filter water exist in every one of our businesses.  

  Within the energy space, much change is under way driven by a need to produce more clean and efficient fuels and power generating systems. A large amount of research and development work has and continues looking to create, as examples, the new hydrogen economy, biofuels to augment fuels supplies, gas to liquids programs, coal gasification and wind energy. These developments are in addition to programs that seek to efficiently remove pollutants from our current fuel supplies and better manage water that is produced or used within these processes. Our work with major petroleum producers and engineering firms in this area has been significant and is helping these companies to commercialize new processes.   

  Backlog at July 31, 2006 was approximately $214,572,000 compared with $144,985,000 at July 31, 2005. Our sales to General Industrial customers are made through our personnel, distributors and manufacturers  representatives. We believe that our TFM strategy and ability to engineer fully integrated systems solutions underscored by product performance and quality, and service to the customer, as well as price, are the principal competitive factors in this market. Our principal competitors in the General Industrial segment include CUNO (a 3M company), GE Water   Process Technologies (a unit of General Electric Company), US Filter (a Siemens business), Sartorius and Parker Hannifin.  

  AEROSPACE:   

  We sell filtration and fluid monitoring equipment to the aerospace industry for use on commercial and military aircraft, including hydraulic, lubrication, and fuel filters, coalescers to remove water from fuel, filters to remove viruses from aircraft cabin air and filter monitoring systems. Our products and systems are also used in ships and land-based military vehicles. Commercial and Military sales represented 47% and 53%, respectively, of total Aerospace sales in fiscal year 2006.  

  Our products are sold to customers in this segment through a combination of direct sales to airframe and other vehicular customers (including the Military) and through our distribution partner, Satair A/S ( Satair ), for the commercial aerospace  aftermarket . Backlog at July 31, 2006 was approximately $112,672,000 compared with $98,070,000 at July 31, 2005. Competition varies by product, and no single competitor competes with us across all sub-segments of Aerospace; however, our principal competitors include Donaldson, ESCO Technologies Inc. and CLARCOR.  

  We believe that efficacy, performance and quality of product and service, as well as price, are determinative in most sales.  

5  

Back to Contents   

MICROELECTRONICS:   

  We sell highly sophisticated filtration and purification technologies for the semiconductor, data storage, fiber optic, advanced display and materials markets. The Company provides a comprehensive suite of contamination control solutions for chemical, gas, water, chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) and photolithography processes to meet the needs of this demanding industry. Integrated circuits, which control almost every device or machine in use today, require exceedingly high levels of filtration technologies which Pall provides. While this part of the market has historically been cyclical, it has recently become less so. Pall has strategically diversified into the fast growing consumer electronics space to lessen the impact of the industry s cycles. MP3 players, video games and consoles, cell phones, flat screen TVs and printers are even greater drivers of our business today than computers.  

  Our products are sold to customers in this segment through our own personnel, distributors and manufacturers  representatives. Backlog at July 31, 2006 was approximately $30,988,000 compared with $16,579,000 at July 31, 2005. We believe that performance, quality of product, innovation and service are the most important factors in the majority of sales in this market. The principal competitors in the Microelectronics market include Entegris (formerly Mykrolis) and Mott.   

   The following comments relate to the two business groups, and five marketplaces  discussed above:   

   RAW MATERIALS:   

  Most raw materials used by the Company are available from multiple sources. A limited number of materials are proprietary products of major chemical companies. Management believes that the Company could obtain satisfactory substitutes for these materials should they become unavailable.  

   PATENTS:   

  The Company owns a broad range of patents covering its filter media, filter designs and other products, but it considers these to be mainly defensive, and relies on its proprietary manufacturing methods and engineering skills. However, it does act against infringers when management believes such action is economically justified.  

      ITEM
  1A. RISK FACTORS.    

  The risk factors described below are not inclusive of all risk factors but highlight those that the Company believes are the most significant and that could impact its performance and financial results. These risk factors should be considered together with all other information presented in this Form 10-K report.  

   Changes in product mix and product pricing may affect the Company s operating results particularly as the systems business expands in which significantly longer sales cycles are experienced with less predictable revenue and no certainty of future revenue streams from related consumable product offerings and services.   

  The Company s TFM strategy is partially reliant on sales of integrated systems. As systems are generally sold at lower gross margins than many other products, gross margins could decline if systems sales continue to grow as a percentage of total sales and the anticipated future revenue streams from related consumable product offerings and services are not realized.   

   Increases in costs of manufacturing and operating costs may affect operating results.   

  The Company s costs are subject to fluctuations particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, energy and related utilities and cost of labor. The achievement of the Company s financial objectives is reliant on its ability to manage these fluctuations through cost savings actions and efficiency initiatives.  

   The Company may not be able to achieve the savings anticipated from its cost reduction and margin improvement initiatives including the timing of completion of its facilities rationalization initiative.   

  In fiscal year 2006, the Company began an extensive program to restructure manufacturing operations, including the closing of up to 12 facilities around the globe. One of the purposes of this initiative is to reduce manufacturing costs and improve gross margins. Unexpected delays or other factors in the facilities rationalization   initiative and other cost reduction initiatives could impact the Company s ability to realize the anticipated savings and the planned impact to improve or maintain gross margins.  

Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates may affect operating results.   

  In fiscal year 2006, the Company derived 66% of sales from outside the United States. Sales outside the United States are typically made in the local currencies of those countries. As a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect operating results. Giving effect to interest rate swaps, the Company s debt portfolio was approximately 55% variable rate at July 31, 2006. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect operating results.  

   The Company may not be able to obtain regulatory approval or market acceptance of new technologies.   

  Part of the Company s planned growth is dependent on new products and technologies. Some of those new products may require regulatory approval. Growth from those new technologies may not be realized if regulatory approval is not granted or customer demand for those products or technologies does not materialize.  

6  

Back to Contents   

Changes in demand for the Company s products and business relationships with key customers and suppliers including delays or cancellations in shipments may affect operating results.   

  To achieve its objectives, the Company must develop and sell products that are subject to the demands of customers. This is dependent on many factors including, but not limited to, managing and maintaining relationships with key customers, responding to the rapid pace of technological change and obsolescence, which may require increased investment by or greater pressure to commercialize developments rapidly or at prices that may not fully recover the associated investment, and the effect on demand resulting from customers  research, development and capital expenditure plans.   

  The manufacturing of the Company s products is dependent on an adequate supply of raw materials. The Company s ability to maintain an adequate supply of raw materials could be impacted by the availability and price of those raw materials and maintaining relationships with key suppliers.  

   The Company may not successfully enforce patents and protect proprietary products and manufacturing techniques.    

  Some of the Company s products, as well as some competitor s products, are based on patented technology and other intellectual property rights. Some of these patented technologies and intellectual property require substantial resources to develop. Operating results may be affected by the Company s ability to defend its intellectual property against unauthorized use by others as well as third-party challenges to its intellectual property.   

   The Company may not be able to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions.    

  In so far as acquisition opportunities are identified, there is no assurance of the Company s ability to complete any such transactions and successfully integrate the acquired business as planned.  

   The Company is subject to domestic and international competition in all of its global markets.    

  The Company is subject to competition in all of the global markets in which it operates. The Company s achievement of its objectives is reliant on its ability to successfully respond to many competitive factors including, but not limited to, pricing, technological innovations, product quality, customer service, manufacturing capabilities and hiring and retention of qualified personnel.  

   The Company may be impacted by global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments.    

  The
    Company conducts operations around the globe. The Company expects to continue
    to derive a substantial portion of sales and earnings from outside the United
    States. Sales and earnings could be impacted by the Company s
    ability to manage the risks and uncertainties associated with the application
    of local legal requirements or the enforceability of laws and contractual
    obligations, trade protection measures, changes in tax laws, regional political
    instability, war, terrorist activities, severe or prolonged adverse weather
conditions and natural disasters as well as health epidemics or pandemics.  

      ITEM
  1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.    

  None.  

7  

Back to Contents   

ITEM
  2. PROPERTIES.    

  The following are the Company s principal facilities (i.e., facilities with square footage in excess of 25,000 square feet), which in the opinion of management are suitable and adequate to meet the Company s requirements:  

8  

Back to Contents   

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.     

  The Company has environmental matters discussed below at the following four U.S. sites: Ann Arbor, Michigan; Pinellas Park, Florida; Glen Cove, New York and Hauppauge, New York.  

  The Company s balance sheet at July 31, 2006 contains environmental liabilities of $19,733,000, which relate to the items discussed below. In the opinion of Company management, the Company is in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and its accruals for environmental remediation are adequate at this time.  

  Reference is also made to the Contingencies and Commitments note in the notes accompanying the consolidated financial statements in this report.   

    Ann Arbor, Michigan:    

  In February 1988, an action was filed in the Circuit Court for Washtenaw County, Michigan ( Court ) by the State of Michigan ( State ) against Gelman Sciences Inc. ( Gelman ), a subsidiary acquired by Pall Corporation (the  Company  or  Pall ) in February 1997. The action sought to compel Gelman to investigate and remediate contamination near Gelman s Ann Arbor facility and requested reimbursement of costs the State had expended in investigating the contamination, which the State alleged was caused by Gelman s disposal of waste water from its manufacturing process. Pursuant to a consent judgment entered into by Gelman and the State in October 1992 (amended September 1996 and October 1999), which resolved that litigation, Gelman is remediating the contamination without admitting wrongdoing. In February 2000, the State Assistant
Attorney General filed a Motion to Enforce Consent Judgment in the Court seeking approximately $4,900,000 in stipulated penalties for the alleged violations of the consent judgment and additional injunctive relief. Gelman disputed these assertions. Following an evidentiary hearing in July 2000, the Court took the matter of penalties  under advisement.  The Court issued a Remediation Enforcement Order (the  REO ) requiring Gelman to submit and implement a detailed plan that will reduce the contamination to acceptable levels within five years. Gelman s plan has been approved by both the Court and the State. Although Gelman has met monthly milestones established under the plan and although contaminant concentrations have been significantly reduced, groundwater concentrations remain above acceptable levels in much of the affected area. The Court, however, concluded that Gelman was in compliance with the terms of the REO in a subsequent order issued in December
2004 (see below) and has expressed its satisfaction with Gelman s progress during hearings both before and after the five-year period expired. Neither the State nor the Court has sought or suggested that Gelman should be penalized based on the continued presence of groundwater contamination at the site.   

  In February 2004, the Court instructed Gelman to submit its Final Feasibility Study describing how it intends to address an area of groundwater contamination not addressed by the previously approved plan. Gelman has submitted its Feasibility Study as instructed. The State also submitted its plan for remediating this area of contamination to the Court. On December 17, 2004, the Court issued its Order and Opinion Regarding Remediation and Contamination of the Unit E Aquifer (the  Unit E Order ). The Court adopted, with limited modifications, Gelman s remediation plan for this area of contamination. The Court also noted that Gelman was in compliance with the Court s previous REO. The State has not appealed the Unit E Order. Gelman is now in the process of implementing the requirements of the Order.  

  In correspondence dated June 5, 2001, the State asserted that additional stipulated penalties in the amount of $142,000 were owed for a separate alleged violation of the consent judgment. The Court found that a  substantial basis  for Gelman s position existed and again took the State s request  under advisement , pending the results of certain groundwater monitoring data. Those data have been submitted to the Court, but no ruling has been issued. On August 9, 2001, the State made a written demand for reimbursement of $227,470 it has allegedly incurred for groundwater monitoring. The State recently updated the amount of this claim, which is now approximately $305,000. Gelman considers this claim barred by the consent judgment.  

  On May 12, 2004, the City of Ann Arbor (the  City ) filed a lawsuit against Gelman in Washtenaw County Circuit Court. The City s suit seeks damages, including the cost of replacing a municipal water supply well allegedly affected by the 1,4-dioxane groundwater contamination, as well as injunctive relief in the form of an order requiring Gelman to remediate the soil and groundwater beneath the City. The contaminant levels allegedly detected in the municipal well at issue, however, are well below applicable cleanup standards and Gelman will vigorously defend against the claim.  

  By Order dated July 19, 2005, the Court granted Gelman s motion for partial summary disposition, in part, dismissing two of the City s three common law claims.   

9  

Back to Contents   

In December 2005, Gelman filed two motions for partial summary disposition seeking dismissal of the City s claims for injunctive relief and the majority of its monetary claims. The City filed a motion for summary disposition with regard to Gelman s liability under state statute. Rather than hear the motions, the Court ordered the parties into settlement facilitation. The facilitation period was recently extended to allow the parties to continue the settlement facilitation. Gelman is currently in negotiations with the City on the terms of the proposed settlement. If a settlement is not reached, the trial in this matter has been rescheduled to late fall 2006.  

  On August 10, 2005, the City filed a lawsuit against Gelman under the Federal Superfund Statute ( CERCLA ) for recovery of the City s alleged response costs, including well replacement costs. The City is seeking in this matter essentially the same relief it is seeking in the above-described state court action. In October 2005, Gelman filed a Motion for Stay, seeking to stay these federal proceedings pending resolution of the parallel state court action. The City subsequently filed a motion for summary judgment regarding Gelman s liability under CERCLA. The parties have agreed to include this matter in the settlement facilitation ordered by the state court and to stay this matter pending the outcome of the facilitation process. The parties have been informed that the Court will place this action on  administrative leave  without prejudice to the City s
right to restart the litigation if the matter is not resolved through the facilitation process.  

  A local resident and the City filed petitions for a contested case on November 26, 2005 and November 30, 2005, respectively. The petitions challenge various aspects of the discharge permit issued to Gelman by the State on September 30, 2005. The petitions commence an administrative adjudicative hearing, which can result in changes to the discharge permit. Company management does not believe there is substantive merit to the claims made in either petition. The Administrative Law Judge has consolidated both petitions into one proceeding. The Administrative Law Judge has also stayed this proceeding to allow the City and Gelman to attempt to resolve this matter through the facilitative process described above. No damages are being sought in this proceeding.  

  On June 25, 2004, the Company was sued in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan by a private plaintiff in connection with the groundwater contamination. The complaint seeks both money damages and injunctive relief requiring remediation of the contamination. The plaintiff also seeks to represent a larger class of property owners and residents who plaintiff claims are affected by the groundwater contamination. On August 25, 2004, the Company filed a motion for summary judgment seeking to dismiss the plaintiff s claims. In response, the plaintiff s counsel sought and was granted permission to amend the complaint. An amended complaint was filed on November 17, 2004, which added seven plaintiffs. The Company renewed its motion for summary judgement on December 27, 2004, asserting various grounds for dismissing the complaint as to each plaintiff. As
ordered by the Court, the Company withdrew its motion to allow the plaintiffs an opportunity to further amend their complaint and conduct limited discovery. The plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint on March 9, 2005, adding two claims under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ). Discovery on the specific issues related to the seven plaintiffs was completed, and on October 17, 2005, the Company renewed, for a third time, its motion for summary judgment, asserting that none of the plaintiffs had established claims under any of the counts alleged, including RCRA. By order dated January 30, 2006, the Court granted the Company s motion and dismissed the entire case. The period for filing an appeal by right has expired.   

    Pinellas Park, Florida:    

  In 1995, as part of a facility closure, an environmental site assessment was conducted to evaluate any soil and groundwater impacts from chemicals that may have been used at the Company s Pinellas Park facility during the previous 24-year period of manufacturing and testing operations. MIBK (methyl isobutyl ketone) concentrations in groundwater were found to be higher than regulatory levels. Soil excavation was conducted in 1998 and subsequent groundwater sampling showed MIBK concentrations below the regulatory level.  

  In October 2000, environmental consultants for a prospective buyer of the property found groundwater contamination at the Company s property. In October 2001, a Site Assessment Report ( SAR ), which detailed contamination concentrations and distributions, was submitted to the Florida Department of Environmental Protection ( FDEP ).  

  In July 2002, a Supplemental Contamination Assessment Plan and an Interim Remedial Action Plan ( IRAP ) were prepared by the Company s consultants/contractors and submitted to the FDEP. A revised IRAP was submitted by the Company in December 2003, and it was accepted by the FDEP in January 2004. A Remedial Action Plan ( RAP ) was submitted in June 2004. Final approval of the RAP was received on August 26, 2006. Pursuant to the approved RAP, the Company began active remediation on the property. On March 31, 2006, the FDEP requested that the Company investigate the off-site migration of contaminants. Pursuant to the request from the FDEP, the Company is in the process of an investigation for off-site contamination which is expected to be completed by February 2007.   

10  

Back to Contents   

Glen Cove, New York:    

  A March 1994 report indicated groundwater contamination consisting of chlorinated solvents at a neighboring site to the Company s Glen Cove facility, and later reports found groundwater contamination in both the shallow and intermediate zones at the facility. In 1999, the Company entered into an Order on Consent with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation ( NYSDEC ), and completed a Phase II Remedial Investigation at the Glen Cove facility.  

  The NYSDEC has finalized the Record of Decision ( ROD ) for the shallow and intermediate groundwater zone termed OU-1, and the Company has signed an Order on Consent for OU-1 effective July 5, 2004. This Order requires the Company to prepare a Remedial Design/Remedial Action ( RD/RA ) Work Plan to address groundwater conditions.   

  The Company recently completed a pilot test involving the injection of a chemical oxidant into on-site groundwater. Data demonstrated that, in general, the pilot test successfully reduced contaminant levels. However, the data from monitoring wells along the site s boundary at Sea Cliff Avenue indicate that contaminated groundwater continues to migrate in the 25 to 60 foot zone from the upgradient Photocircuits Corporation ( Photocircuits ) site. The Company submitted a pilot test report to NYSDEC in May 2006 and is preparing responses to comments it received on the report. The next step in the remedial program will be the preparation of an RD/RA Work Plan for the site that will take into account the ongoing migration of contaminated groundwater from the Photocircuits site.   

  The ROD for the deep groundwater zone ( OU-2 ) has been deferred by the NYSDEC until additional data is available to delineate contamination and select an appropriate remedy. The NYSDEC requested the Company and Photocircuits to enter into a joint Order on Consent for the remedial investigation. Photocircuits was not willing to enter into an Order and the Company has been informed by the NYSDEC that it will undertake the OU-2 investigation at the Photocircuits property. Photocircuits is now in Chapter 11 bankruptcy and, in or about March 2006, the assets of Photocircuits  Glen Cove facility were sold to American Pacific Financial Corporation. The NYSDEC has not pursued the Company to enter into an Order for the OU-2 investigation at its site.  

    Hauppauge, New York:    

  On December 3, 2004, a third-party action was commenced against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York in connection with groundwater contamination. In the primary action, plaintiff Anwar Chitayat ( Chitayat / the plaintiff ) seeks recovery against defendants Vanderbilt Associates and Walter Gross for environmental costs allegedly incurred, and to be incurred, in connection with the disposal of hazardous substances from property located in Hauppauge, New York ( the Site ). The Site is a property located in the same industrial park as a Company facility. Vanderbilt Associates is the prior owner of the property and Walter Gross was a partner in Vanderbilt Associates. Walter Gross died in May 2005, and in August 2005, following the issuance of letters testamentary, Barbara Gross was substituted as a third-party
plaintiff. Barbara Gross claims that the Company is responsible for releasing hazardous substances into the soil and groundwater at its property, which then migrated to the Site. Barbara Gross seeks indemnification and contribution under Section 113 of CERCLA from third-party defendants, including the Company, in the event she is liable to Chitayat.  

  Chitayat alleges that prior to 1985, Vanderbilt Associates leased the Site to Sands Textiles Finishers, Inc. for textile manufacturing and dry cleaning. Chitayat alleges that hazardous substances were disposed at the Site during the time period that Walter Gross and Vanderbilt Associates owned and/or operated the Site, which migrated from the Site to surrounding areas. Chitayat alleges that in August 1998, he entered into a Consent Order with the NYSDEC which resulted in NYSDEC investigating the Site and developing a remediation plan, and required Chitayat to reimburse the State via a periodic payment plan. Chitayat alleges that the total response costs will exceed $3,000,000, and that he has incurred more than $500,000 in costs to date.  

  In 2005, the plaintiff moved to amend his complaint to add a claim for contribution under Section 113 of CERCLA against the Company, and the Company opposed the proposed amendment. In March 2006, the Court terminated the plaintiff s motion to amend, and plaintiff has not renewed his motion. As a result, the only claim asserted against the Company is by Barbara Gross.   

  The NYSDEC has designated two operable units ( OUs ) associated with the Site. OU-1 relates to the  on-site  contamination at 90, 100 and 110 Oser Avenue, and represents the geographic area which Chitayat alleges will result in response costs in excess of $3,000,000. OU-2 relates to off-site groundwater contamination migrating away from the Site. In January 2006, the NYSDEC issued a ROD selecting a remedial program for OU-2 which is projected to cost approximately $4,500,000 to implement.  

11  

Back to Contents   

Fact
    discovery in the case was completed in January 2006. Experts for plaintiff,
    Barbara Gross, Vanderbilt Associates and the Company served expert reports
    in March and April 2006, and expert discovery was concluded in May 2006.
    There is a dispute among the experts as to whether contaminants from the
    Company s facility have contributed to cleanup costs at the Site and,
    if so, to what extent. In September 2006, the Court established a briefing
    schedule for all parties to submit summary judgment motions, and for Barbara
    Gross and the Company to make motions to strike certain expert testimony.
    The Company s
    motions for summary judgment and to strike expert testimony were filed with
    the Court on October 6, 2006, and the plaintiff must serve opposition papers
by November 6, 2006. The Company must file reply papers by November 20, 2006.  

      ITEM
  4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.    

  There
  were no matters submitted to a vote of the Company s shareholders during
  the fourth quarter of its fiscal year 2006.  

   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

(1)  Age as of October 12, 2006.  

   (2)  Messrs. Krasnoff and Wilson are directors of the Company and members of the Board s Executive Committee.  

  None of the persons listed above is related.  

  For more than the past five years, the principal occupation of people listed above has been their employ by the registrant.  

  None of the above persons has been involved in those legal proceedings required to be disclosed by Item 401(f) of Regulation S-K during the past five years.   

12  

Back to Contents   

PART
  II    

      ITEM
  5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
  AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.    

  The Company s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PLL. The table below sets forth quarterly data relating to the Company s common stock prices and cash dividends declared per share for the past two fiscal years.  

As of September 26, 2006 there were approximately 4,054 holders of record of the Company s common stock.  

  The following table provides information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of the Company or any  affiliated purchaser  of the Company s common stock during the quarter ended July 31, 2006.   

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, there were no previously issued shares tendered in partial payment of employee stock option exercises. In fiscal year 2006, 2 shares were traded in by employees in payment of stock option exercises at an average price of $30.07 per share and an aggregate cost of $50.  

13  

Back to Contents   

      ITEM
  6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.    

  The following table sets forth selected financial data for the last five fiscal years. This selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  

  On
  April 24, 2002, the Company acquired the Filtration and Separations Group ( FSG ).
  The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in
  accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business
  Combinations ( SFAS No. 141 ). The operating results of FSG are reported
  in the Company s results of operations from April 28, 2002.   

a)    

Includes Restructuring and other charges, net, of $14.0, including $1.7 of other adjustments recorded in cost of sales; $0.9 related to a one-time purchase accounting adjustment to record, at market value, inventory acquired from the BioSepra Process Division ( BioSepra ) of Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc. This resulted in a $2.4 increase in acquired inventories, in accordance with SFAS No. 141, in the opening balance sheet and an increase in cost of sales of $0.9 in fiscal year 2006 concurrent with the sale of a portion of the underlying inventory. The adjustment is considered non-recurring in nature because, although the Company acquired the manufacturing operations of BioSepra, this adjustment was required by SFAS No. 141 as an elimination of the manufacturing profit in inventory acquired from BioSepra and subsequently sold in the period. Also reflects,
$0.8 primarily comprised of incremental depreciation from the now planned early retirement of certain fixed assets recorded in conjunction with the Company s facilities rationalization initiatives in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.        

b)    

Includes expense of $8.9, after pro forma tax effect (7 cents per share) related to stock compensation and the adoption of SFAS 123 (R), Shared Based Payment ( SFAS No. 123 (R) ).       

c)    

Includes Restructuring and other charges, net, of $39.6, including $0.8 recorded in cost of sales related to the aforementioned inventory purchase accounting adjustment recorded in connection with the acquisition of BioSepra (refer to note (a) above).       

d)    

Includes Restructuring and other charges, net, of $32.8 (including $6.0 recorded in cost of sales related to a one-time purchase accounting adjustment to record, at market value, inventory acquired from FSG. This resulted in a $6.0 increase in acquired inventories in the opening balance sheet and an increase in cost of sales of $6.0 in fiscal year 2002 concurrent with the sale of the underlying inventory (refer to note (a) above for further explanation of this adjustment).       

14  

Back to Contents   

ITEM
  7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS.    

   Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors   

  You should read the following discussion together with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and other financial information in this Form 10-K report. The discussions under the subheadings  Review of Market Segments and Geographies  below are in local currency unless indicated otherwise. Company management considers local currency growth an important measure because by excluding the volatility of exchange rates, underlying volume growth is clearer. As used below,   %  indicates that the Company has rounded the relevant data up or down to the nearest one-half percentage point. Dollar amounts discussed below are in thousands, unless otherwise indicated, except per share dollar amounts. In addition, per share dollar amounts are discussed on a diluted basis.  

  The matters discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain  forward-looking statements  as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, events or developments are forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: changes in product mix and product pricing particularly as we expand our systems business in which we experience significantly longer sales cycles and less predictable revenue with no certainty of future revenue streams from related consumable product offerings and services; increases in costs of manufacturing and operating costs including energy and raw materials;
the Company s ability to achieve the savings anticipated from cost reduction and margin improvement initiatives including the timing of completion of the facilities rationalization initiative; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; regulatory approval and market acceptance of new technologies; changes in business relationships with key customers and suppliers including delays or cancellations in shipments; success in enforcing patents and protecting proprietary products and manufacturing techniques; successful completion or integration of acquisitions; domestic and international competition in the Company s global markets; and global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this report and undertakes no obligation to update them.  

   Business Reorganization   

  In fiscal year 2005, the Company undertook to reorganize its business structure into three underlying vertically integrated business groups: Life Sciences, comprising Medical and BioPharmaceuticals markets; Aeropower, comprising Aerospace and the Machinery   Equipment portion of the current General Industrial marketplace; and Process Technologies, comprising General Industrial s Food   Beverage, Fuels   Chemicals, Power Generation, Municipal Water and Microelectronics markets. In fiscal year 2006, management began a further integration of the Industrial groups (Aeropower and Process Technologies) to form one vertically integrated Industrial business group. This reorganization has been substantially completed and the Company s new structure consists of two vertically integrated business groups:  Life Sciences and Industrial. Each business group has integrated support
functions and responsibility for global manufacturing, sales and marketing and research and development functions to enable the Company to better meet its customers  needs and in order to achieve greater efficiencies and profit growth.   

  This revised organizational structure is in contrast to the former matrix organizational structure where, within each geography, these functions supported the market-based part of the matrix on a shared basis (as opposed to being directly vertically integrated into these business groups). Senior management of the Company, including the Company s chief executive officer, manages the Company and makes key decisions about the allocation of Company resources based on the two business units. The Company s sales subsidiaries sell both Life Sciences and Industrial products. As such, overhead costs of these subsidiaries have been, and will continue to be, shared by the businesses.   

  Since the Company has changed its management approach, organizational structure, operating performance assessment and internal business unit financial reporting, a change to the manner in which the Company presents segment information in its financial statements will result. The accounting and financial reporting systems at each of the Company s entities, as well as at the Corporate office, were assessed for conversion to support the strategic reorganization of the business and the requirements of management in the new structure. Additionally, certain of the internal segment financial reporting accounting principles utilized in the measurement and evaluation of the profitability of the Company s business groups (such as the allocation of shared overhead costs) are also being reassessed for consistency with the underlying reorganized structure of the Company. The Company expects
to begin utilizing a new global financial reporting system in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, reflecting financial results of the business groups consistent with how they will be managed and measured.   

15  

Back to Contents   

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   

  The Company s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require the Company to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Although these estimates are based on Company management s knowledge of current events and actions it may undertake in the future, actual results may differ from estimates. The following discussion addresses the Company s most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the portrayal of the Company s financial condition and results, and that require judgment. See also the notes accompanying the consolidated financial statements,
which contain additional information regarding the Company s accounting policies.  

  Purchase Accounting and Goodwill  

  Determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination in accordance with SFAS No. 141 is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. There are various methods used to estimate the value of tangible and intangible assets acquired, such as discounted cash flow and market multiple approaches. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the two approaches include: projected future cash flows (including timing); discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in the future cash flows; perpetual growth rate; determination of appropriate market comparables; and the determination of whether a premium or a discount should be applied to comparables. There are also judgments made to determine the expected useful lives assigned to each class of assets and liabilities acquired.   

  Goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the sum of the amounts assigned to identifiable assets acquired less liabilities assumed. The Company performs goodwill impairment tests at least annually, including whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment might have occurred. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, the Company could be required to strategically realign its resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. Based on impairment tests performed, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004.  

  Revenue Recognition  

  Revenue is recognized when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer and when contractual terms have been fulfilled. Long-term contracts are accounted for under the percentage of completion method based upon the ratio of costs incurred to date compared with estimated total costs to complete them. The cumulative impact of revisions to total estimated costs is reflected in the period of the change, including anticipated losses. Such revisions could result in a material adjustment in the period of the change.  

  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  

  Company management evaluates its ability to collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances when collection becomes doubtful. In performing this evaluation, significant estimates are involved, including an analysis of specific risks on a customer-by-customer basis. Based upon this information, Company management records in earnings an amount believed to be uncollectible. If the historical data used to calculate the allowance provided for doubtful accounts does not reflect the future ability to collect outstanding receivables, additional provisions for doubtful accounts may be needed and the future results of operations could be materially affected.  

  Inventories  

  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (principally on the first-in, first-out method) or market. The Company records adjustments to the carrying value of inventory based upon assumptions about historic usage, future demand and market conditions. These adjustments are estimates which could vary significantly, either favorably or unfavorably, from actual requirements if future conditions, customer inventory levels or competitive conditions differ from the Company s expectations.  

16  

Back to Contents   

Recoverability of Available-for-Sale Investments  

  Other than temporary losses relating to available-for-sale investments are recognized in earnings when Company management determines that the recoverability of the cost of the investment is unlikely. Such losses could result in a material adjustment in the period of the change. Company management considers numerous factors, on a case-by-case basis, in evaluating whether the decline in market value of an available-for-sale security below cost is other than temporary. Such factors include, but are not limited to, (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost; (ii) the financial condition and the near-term prospects of the issuer of the investment; and (iii) whether Company management intends to retain the investment for the period of time is sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.   

  Defined Benefit Retirement Plans  

  The Company sponsors defined benefit retirement plans in various forms covering substantially all employees who meet eligibility requirements. Several statistical and other factors that attempt to anticipate future events are used in calculating the expense and liabilities related to those plans for which the benefit is actuarially determined (i.e., defined benefit plans). These factors include assumptions about the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation increases as determined by the Company, within certain guidelines. In addition, the Company s actuarial consultants also use subjective factors, such as withdrawal and mortality rates, to calculate the liabilities and expense. The actuarial assumptions used by the Company are long-term assumptions and may differ materially from actual experience in the short-term due to changing market and
economic conditions and changing participant demographics. These differences may have a significant effect on the amount of pension expense recorded by the Company.   

  Pension expense associated with our defined benefit plans was $32,819 in fiscal year 2006, which was based on a weighted average discount rate of 4.80% (calculated using the projected benefit obligation) and a weighted average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of 6.63% (calculated using the fair value of plan assets).   

  The expected rates of return on the various defined benefit pension plans  assets are based on the asset allocation of each plan and the long-term projected return of those assets. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was reduced by 50 basis points, projected pension expense in fiscal year 2006 would have increased approximately $1,800. The objective of the discount rate assumption is to reflect the rate at which the pension benefits could be effectively settled. The Company s methodology for selecting the discount rate for the U.S. plans as of July 31, 2006 was to match the plan s cash flows to that of a yield curve that provides the equivalent yields on zero-coupon corporate bonds for each maturity. Benefit cash flows due in a particular year can be  settled  theoretically by  investing  them in the zero-coupon bond that matures in
the same year. The discount rate is the single rate that produces the same present value of cash flows. The discount rate assumption for non-U.S. plans reflects the market rate for high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments. Both discount rate assumptions are based on the expected duration of benefit payments for each of the Company s pension plans as of the annual measurement date and is subject to change each year. If the weighted average discount rate was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense in fiscal year 2006 would have increased by approximately $4,400.   

  Accrued Expenses and Contingencies  

  Company management estimates certain material expenses in an effort to record those expenses in the period incurred. When no estimate in a given range is deemed to be better than any other, the low end of the range is accrued.   

  The accrual requiring the most judgmental estimation relates to environmental proceedings. Environmental accruals are recorded based upon historical costs incurred and estimates for future costs of remediation and on-going legal expenses which have a high degree of uncertainty.   

  Self-insured workers  compensation insurance accruals are recorded based on insurance claims processed, including applied loss development factors as well as historical claims experience for claims incurred but not yet reported. Self-insured employee medical insurance accruals are recorded based on medical claims processed as well as historical medical claims experience for claims incurred but not yet reported. Differences between estimates and assumptions and actual results could result in an accrual requirement materially different from the calculated accrual.  

17  

Back to Contents   

Income Taxes  

  Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide income tax expense provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities, the process of identifying items of revenue and expense that qualify for preferential tax treatment and segregation of foreign and domestic income and expense to avoid double taxation. No assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different than that which is reflected in the Company s historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on the Company s income tax provision and net earnings in the period in which such a determination is made.  

  The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount of future tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized. While Company management has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, there is no assurance that the valuation allowance would not need to be increased to cover additional deferred tax assets that may not be realizable. Any increase in the valuation allowance could have a material adverse impact on the Company s income tax provision and net earnings in the period in which such determination is made.  

   Results of Operations 2006 Compared with 2005   

   Review of Consolidated Results   

  Sales for the fiscal year 2006 increased 6% to $2 billion from $1.9 billion in fiscal year 2005. Exchange rates reduced reported sales by $35,412, primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Japanese Yen during the first nine months of the year, partly offset by the weakening of the U.S. dollar against certain other Asian currencies. In local currency (i.e., had exchange rates not changed year over year), sales increased 8%. Overall, pricing was flat for the full year, as decreased pricing in the Medical segment related to long-term contracts in the Western Hemisphere, was offset by increases achieved in the Company s other businesses. In the fourth quarter, pricing was slightly positive and Company management expects pricing to improve by approximately 50 basis points in fiscal year 2007.   

  Microelectronics sales were up 20 % in local currency, as the Company continues to benefit from new fabrication construction and strength in the consumer electronics market. BioPharmaceuticals sales increased 12% driven by strong growth in consumables. General Industrial sales were up 5 %. Within General Industrial, the increase in sales reflects growth in all the submarkets with the exception of Municipal Water. Medical sales were up 1 % reflecting growth in the BioSciences portion of the business of 4% and an increase in the Blood Filtration submarket of 1 %. Aerospace sales increased 10% driven by increased Military sales and incremental, but discounted, sales attributable to the Company s expanded agreement/relationship with Satair. Refer to discussion below for further details on the Satair agreement. By geography, local currency sales in Asia were up
14 % with all segments contributing to this gain. Growth was particularly strong in Microelectronics. In Europe, sales increased 6 % driven by strong growth in BioPharmaceuticals and Microelectronics. In the Western Hemisphere, sales grew 5 % as strong growth in Microelectronics, BioPharmaceuticals and Aerospace was partly offset by decreases in Medical. Company management expects overall sales growth in local currency to be in the range of 5%-7% in fiscal year 2007 compared with fiscal year 2006. For a detailed discussion of sales, refer to  Review of Market Segments and Geographies,  below.  

  Cost of sales, as a percentage of sales, increased to 53.2% from 51.5% in fiscal year 2005. This reflects pricing reductions in Medical sales in the Western Hemisphere as well as a movement toward in-line blood filtration (in Europe and Asia), which carry higher prices and profit in dollars but at a reduced margin. In addition, the increase reflects a mix change within consumables to lower margin sales, such as Microelectronics  increased sales to OEM customers and Aeropower sales to Satair at lower distributor margins. Cost of sales was also impacted by systems sales increases in Energy markets, with lower margins. In addition, the increase in cost of sales reflects transitional costs, such as training and incremental depreciation on assets to be retired earlier than originally estimated, related to the Company s facilities rationalization initiative. Cost of sales was also
impacted by increases in energy costs; including costs of utilities in the Company s manufacturing plants as well as increases in fuel related commodities, such as plastics and steel which are used to manufacture consumable filters and systems. Furthermore, cost of sales was negatively impacted by stock compensation and the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and a one-time purchase accounting adjustment related to inventory acquired as part of the BioSepra acquisition. These factors were partly offset by savings generated from the Company s cost reduction initiatives. The transitional costs and incremental depreciation related to the facilities rationalization initiative will continue into fiscal year 2008 as the Company makes progress on this initiative. Company management expects increased pricing and the impact of its cost reduction initiatives, such as facilities rationalization initiatives to offset increases in energy and commodity costs, resulting in a mitigation of gross
margin erosion in fiscal year 2007.  

18  

Back to Contents   

Selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales decreased to 31.8% from 32.7% in fiscal year 2005. The decrease reflects savings realized from the Company s cost reduction initiatives partly offset by the impact of stock compensation and the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), which negatively impacted selling, general and administrative expenses by 42 basis points.   

  The Company continues to make progress on its cost reduction initiatives. The facilities rationalization initiative is expected to reduce the Company s footprint by over 20% and result in a 10% global manufacturing headcount reduction. The Company has made progress on this initiative, including outsourcing and closure actions in the Company s plant in Hamburg Germany, which have been virtually completed. The Company has also announced the outsourcing and closure of another small plant in Germany. The Company has also announced plans to relocate and outsource manufacturing from its Ann Arbor facility and completed the sale of a building in California, made redundant by the significant movement of blood-bank related manufacturing operations to Mexico. In aggregate, these actions will result in cost savings of approximately $6,000 in fiscal year 2007. Company management expects to
announce additional actions throughout fiscal 2007 and expects annualized savings from this initiative to grow to $40,000 plus a further $10,000 in tax savings by the end of fiscal year 2008.  The facilities rationalization initiative is expected to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal year 2008. Additionally, the Company has launched a major initiative to optimize its European operations ( EuroPall ) with the objective of delivering improvements in profitability. Net savings generated from the EuroPall initiative as well as from the Company s divisional realignment were approximately $6,000 in fiscal year 2006. Company management expects a similar level of savings in fiscal year 2007. Based on these factors, Company management is expecting selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales to decrease approximately 50 basis points in fiscal year 2007 compared with fiscal year 2006.  

  Research and development expenses were $57,371 compared to $56,183 in fiscal year 2005. As a percentage of sales, research and development expenses were 2.8% as compared with 3% last year. Company management expects research and development expenses to be about 3% of sales in fiscal year 2007.  

  In fiscal year 2006, the Company recorded restructuring and other charges, net, of $12,326 primarily comprised of severance and other costs in connection with the Company s divisional realignment and on-going cost reduction initiatives (including its facilities rationalization and EuroPall initiatives), partly offset by the reversal of excess restructuring reserves recorded in fiscal year 2005. In addition, the charges include an increase in previously established environmental reserves primarily related to environmental matters in Ann Arbor, Michigan and Pinellas Park, Florida. Restructuring and other charges, net, also includes a gain on the sale of the Company s stock rights in Satair, which was recorded in the second quarter, as well as a gain on the sale of the Company s investment in Panacos Pharmaceuticals, Inc., formerly known as V.I. Technologies, Inc.
( VITEX ), that was recorded in the first quarter. In fiscal year 2005, the Company recorded restructuring and other charges, net, of $38,763, primarily related to the Company s cost reduction initiatives including its divisional realignment plans. In addition, restructuring and other charges, net, include the write-down of the investment in VITEX that was deemed other-than-temporarily impaired and an increase to previously established environmental reserves. Furthermore, restructuring and other charges, net included a charge of $11,953 related to the early extinguishment of the Company s $100,000 private placement 7.83% unsecured senior notes. The charge represented the payment to the note holders under the make-whole provision of the notes reduced by the carrying value of the notes. The details of the charges for the years ended July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005 can be found in the Restructuring and Other Charges, Net note accompanying the consolidated financial
statements.   

19  

Back to Contents   

The following table summarizes the activity related to restructuring liabilities that were recorded in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004:  

a)    

Amounts reflected as severance liabilities for fiscal year 2006 exclude $227 related to non-cash stock compensation.       

b)    

Other changes reflect translation impact.        

c)    

Reflects the reversal of excess restructuring reserves originally recorded in fiscal years 2005 and 2004.        

Net interest expense decreased to $22,977 from $25,950 in fiscal year 2005. The decrease in net interest expense primarily reflects the impact of lower debt levels throughout the year. Company management expects net interest expense in fiscal year 2007 to increase to approximately $25,000.   

  In
    fiscal year 2006, the Company recorded a one-time charge of $17,000 in the
    provision for income taxes for the tax effect of repatriation of foreign
    subsidiary earnings allowed under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
    ( AJCA ). Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section
    of this Management s
    Discussion and Analysis for further discussion. The underlying tax rate
    (i.e., the tax rate on earnings before income taxes, excluding restructuring
    and other charges and the tax effect of repatriation) was 24% in fiscal 2006,
    unchanged from fiscal year 2005. Company management expects that its underlying
    tax rate in fiscal year 2007 will be consistent with fiscal year 2006, and
    improve, as more manufacturing is located into tax advantaged locations.   

  Net earnings in fiscal year 2006 were $145,493, or $1.16 per share, compared with net earnings of $140,816, or $1.12 per share in fiscal year 2005. In summary, net earnings reflects organic sales growth, an improvement in selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, and a decrease in net interest expense. This was offset by the impact of lower gross margins, a $17,000 one-time charge representing the tax effect of repatriation of foreign subsidiary earnings and the impact of stock compensation and the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), which negatively impacted net earnings by 7 cents per share. In addition, net earnings reflect restructuring and other charges, net, of $12,326 compared to $38,763 in fiscal year 2005. Company management estimates that foreign currency translation reduced net earnings by approximately 1 cent per share.   

20  

Back to Contents   

On December 16, 2005, the Company and Satair signed an agreement whereby Satair acquired the exclusive rights to the Western Hemisphere commercial aerospace aftermarket distribution channel for the Company s products for a ten-year period. The transaction was valued at $22,000, of which $19,000 was paid to the Company in cash on the closing date, and $3,000 in a five-year non-interest bearing note receivable, payable in equal installments. In addition, the agreement required Satair to purchase certain finished goods inventory from the Company valued at $5,683. The $22,000 in cash and notes receivable received for the distribution rights were recorded as deferred revenue and are being amortized as an increase to sales over the life of the distribution agreement. The transaction was accretive to earnings in fiscal year 2006 and is expected to be accretive in future years.  

  Company
    management expects earnings per share for fiscal year 2007 to be in the range
    of $1.22 - $1.40 per share inclusive of severance and other restructuring
    costs and incremental depreciation relating to its cost reduction initiatives
    which are estimated to be in the range of $0.23 - $0.20 per share after pro
    forma tax effect.  

   Review of Market Segments and Geographies    

   Market Segments:   

  The table below presents sales for the for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005 by market segment, including the effect of exchange rates for comparative purposes.  

Life Sciences sales increased 6% in fiscal year 2006 compared to fiscal year 2005. Life Sciences represented approximately 39% of total sales, compared with 40% in fiscal year 2005.  

  Within Life Sciences, Medical sales increased 1 %, reflecting growth in the BioSciences and Blood Filtration portions of the business. By geography, Medical sales in Europe were up 4% while in Asia, the smallest of the Company s Medical markets, sales were up 12 %. Sales in the Western Hemisphere, the largest of the Company s Medical markets, were down 2%.   

  Within
    Medical, sales in the BioSciences submarket increased 4%. The BioSciences
    sales increase was driven by an increase in Laboratory sales of 5% (all geographies
    contributing), growth in OEM sales of 2 % (primarily Europe) as well
    as increased Cell Therapy sales of 43% (Western Hemisphere and Europe). The
    overall growth in Laboratory sales was driven by increased sales of core
    products and the continued success of the Company s
    disposable sample preparation products. Growth in Cell Therapy was driven
    by strong demand for the Company s Cord Blood mononuclear cell collection,
    processing and storage systems. By geography, BioSciences sales growth was
    fueled by
Europe (+9 %) and Asia (+13 %), while sales in the Western Hemisphere
were flat.   

  Sales in the Blood Filtration submarket increased 1 %. By geography, sales in the Western Hemisphere (which accounts for approximately 61% of the Company s global Blood Filtration business) were down 3 %. The decrease in the Western Hemisphere reflects reduced pricing related to long-term contracts put in place at the end of fiscal year 2005. In the fourth quarter, this submarket returned to growth, with sales up 6 % in the Western Hemisphere. Blood Filtration sales in Europe increased 9% driven by new tender wins. In Asia (the smallest of the Company s Blood Filtration and Hospital submarkets), sales were up 12%. In fiscal year 2007, pricing from blood center contracts is expected to neutralize compared with fiscal year 2006. Sales in the Hospital submarket were down 2%. By geography, sales in the Western Hemisphere and Asia were up 5% and 12%, respectively,
reflecting strong demand for critical care products. Hospital sales in Europe were down 6% reflecting competitive and pricing pressures. Overall, Company management expects sales in the Medical segment to be up in the range of 1%-2% in fiscal year 2007 compared with fiscal year 2006.  

  21  

Back to Contents   
  BioPharmaceuticals sales increased 12%, driven by strong growth in consumables in all geographies. By geography, both the Western Hemisphere and Europe achieved double-digit sales growth, while in Asia, sales were up in the mid-single digit range. The growth in consumables was driven by the biotechnology and vaccine market sectors. The Company s chromatography business is developing with BioSepra sorbents now established in a number of new applications at production scale and more in the pipeline. Euroflow columns and associated systems also contributed to growth in fiscal year 2006. Throughout the year, the Company saw increasing demand for single use processing technologies and systems and Company management expects this trend to accelerate in fiscal year 2007. Company management expects sales in the BioPharmaceuticals segment to increase approximately 10% in fiscal year 2007
compared with fiscal year 2006.  

  Industrial sales grew 9% with all markets contributing to this gain. Industrial represented approximately 61% of total sales compared with 60% in fiscal year 2005.   

  General Industrial segment sales, which account for about 63% of the Company s Industrial business, were up 5 % compared with fiscal year 2005. All submarkets within General Industrial contributed to the growth with the exception of Municipal Water. Integrated system sales increased 2% as strong sales in the Energy-related and Food   Beverage submarkets were partly offset by timing of sales in Municipal water. Integrated systems sales represented 18 % of total General Industrial sales in fiscal year 2006 as compared to 19 % in fiscal year 2005.  

  Within General Industrial, sales in the Machinery   Equipment submarket were up 5% as growth in Europe (+5 %) and Asia (+18 %) was offset by a decrease in the Western Hemisphere (-6 %). The decrease in the Western Hemisphere reflects continued pressure in the pulp and paper markets. Paper production will continue to face challenges as demand for printed material slows, however, overall growth in primary metals, automobile production and mining remains healthy. The Company continues to focus on higher growth markets and expanding its efforts in underdeveloped regions including Latin America, Eastern Europe and China.   

  Energy-related sales in the Company s Fuels and Chemicals and Power Generation submarkets were strong in the year with combined sales increasing 11 %. The growth was driven by increases in both consumables and systems sales. By geography, sales in Asia increased 15 %. In the Western Hemisphere, sales were up 11%, while in Europe, sales were up 8 %. Customer investment in new plant capacity and upgrading of existing plants is driving growth. In light of rising energy costs, the Company s customers in the energy markets strive to increase production, protect and extend the life of expensive equipment and develop alternative fuel sources. These trends were key growth drivers in the year.  

  Food and Beverage sales increased 6 % driven by strong growth in the Western Hemisphere (+63%) and growth in Asia (+5 %). A decrease in Europe (the Company s largest Food   Beverage market) of 2 % partly offset the above. The sales growth in the Western Hemisphere reflects the effect of strong integrated system sales (an increase of over 300%) as well as increased consumables business (+22%). The sales growth in Asia was driven by increased consumables business. In Europe, sales in the year were negatively impacted by a weakness in the wine markets, however, in the fourth quarter sales were up 4%. The Company continues to leverage the expertise of its European Food   Beverage team into growing regions in Latin America, the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Asia, and management believes that this strategy has begun to accelerate growth in these emerging regions.   

  Municipal Water sales were down 15% reflecting delays in contract rollouts. Sales in the Western Hemisphere and Asia were down 21 % and 59%, respectively. Sales in Europe were up 13 %. The health of this market is reflected in the backlog, which was up 57 % at July 31, 2006 compared to the same point in time last year. Overall, Company management expects sales in the General Industrial segment, to increase in the range of 5%-7% in fiscal year 2007 compared with fiscal year 2006.  

  Aerospace sales increased 10% driven by increased Military sales and incremental, but discounted, sales attributable to our expanded agreement/relationship with Satair. By geography, sales in both the Western Hemisphere and Europe increased 9 %. In Asia, the smallest of the Company s Aerospace markets, sales were up 15 %. Within Aerospace, Commercial sales were down 3% as growth in the Western Hemisphere (+6%) driven by incremental sales attributable to the transaction with Satair was offset by decreases in Europe and Asia. Military sales increased 25% driven by growth in Europe (+39 %), Asia (+57%) and the Western Hemisphere (+13 %). Overall, Company management expects sales in the Aerospace segment, to increase in the range of 4%-6% in fiscal year 2007 compared with fiscal year 2006.  

  Microelectronics sales were up 20 %, as the Company continues to benefit from new fabrication construction and strength in the consumer electronics markets, such as gaming consoles, MP3 players, multimedia cell phones, flat panel screen displays and televisions, and ink jet printers and cartridges. The Company s strategic diversification of its Microelectronics business into consumer electronics and OEM sales strategy has enabled it to take advantage of this strong consumer market trend. All geographies achieved double-digit growth compared with fiscal year 2005. Company management expects continued growth in the Microelectronics segment in fiscal year 2007 with a potential softening in the latter part of the year.  

  22  

Back to Contents   
  The consolidated operating profit as a percentage of sales was 15.3% as compared to 16.7% in fiscal year 2005. The reduction in operating profit margin reflects the integration of the research and development function into the lines of business previously managed as a Corporate function (approximately $12,000-$13,000), the impact of stock compensation and the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) (approximately $8,000), pricing, transition costs related to the Company s facilities rationalization initiative and other matters discussed in the paragraph above regarding cost of sales, and ongoing investments in Asia. The above factors were partially offset by the impact of the Company s cost reduction initiatives and increased overall sales. Operating profit dollars decreased by $9,530, or 3% to $308,116. The operating profit details for the years ended July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005 can
be found in the Segment Information and Geographies note accompanying the consolidated financial statements.   

   Geographies:   

  The table below presents sales for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005 to unaffiliated customers by geography, including the effect of exchange rates for comparative purposes.   

Sales in the Western Hemisphere increased 5 % on both a reported and local currency basis. Sales growth was exhibited in all segments with the exception of Medical where sales declined 2%. Exchange rates increased sales by $1,965, primarily related to the strengthening of the Canadian dollar. Operating profit was 14.5% of total sales (including inter-company sales to other geographies) compared to 17.5% in fiscal year 2005 as reduced pricing in the blood filtration business, the transfer of the research and development function from Corporate, transition costs related to the Company s facilities rationalization initiative and the impact of stock compensation and the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) was partly offset by savings generated from the Company s cost reduction initiatives. Operating profit dollars decreased $19,039, or 12%.   

  In Europe, local currency sales increased 6 % with all segments contributing to this gain. Growth was particularly strong in the BioPharmaceuticals, Microelectronics and Aerospace segments, while sales in General Industrial, Europe s largest segment, were up 3 %. The weakening of European currencies reduced sales by $27,296 resulting in reported sales growth of 3%. Operating profit was 9.3% of total sales (including inter-company sales to other geographies) as compared to 11.1% in fiscal year 2005, while operating profit dollars declined $14,171, or 14% to $86,931. The decline in operating profit was partly attributable to the impact of stock compensation and the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and transition costs related to the Company s facilities rationalization initiative.   

   Sales in Asia increased 14 % in local currency driven by double-digit growth in all segments with the exception of BioPharmaceuticals, where sales were up 7 %. The weakening of the Japanese Yen, partly offset by the strengthening of certain Asian currencies, reduced sales by $10,081, resulting in reported sales growth of 12%. Operating profit improved to 15.3% of total sales (including inter-company sales to other geographies) from 14.6% in fiscal year 2005. Operating profit dollars increased by $11,411, or 18% to $75,345, reflecting the growth in sales partly offset by increased costs related to the Company s ongoing investments in sales and manufacturing in this region and the impact of stock compensation and the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).   

  General corporate expenses decreased $10,255, or 14 % to $60,770. The decline in general corporate expenses reflects the impact of the transfer of the research and development function into the lines of business and the Company s cost reduction initiatives partly offset by the impact of stock compensation and the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) as well as increased amortization expense principally related to acquired intangible assets.   

  23  

Back to Contents   
   Results of Operations 2005 Compared with 2004   

   Review of Consolidated Results   

  Sales for the fiscal year 2005 increased 7 % to $1.9 billion from $1.77 billion in fiscal year 2004. Exchange rates increased reported sales in the year by $58,625, primarily due to the strengthening of the Euro and to a lesser extent the British Pound and Japanese Yen. In local currency (i.e., had exchange rates not changed year over year), sales increased 4%. Overall, pricing reduced sales by 1% in the year and as such, the overall volume increase was 5%. Sales in the BioPharmaceuticals segment, which has benefited from strong demand in the biotechnology sector, grew 12% in local currency in the year. General Industrial sales were up 7 %, fueled by double-digit growth in the Municipal Water and Fuels   Chemicals submarkets, while Microelectronics sales increased 4%. Sales in the Aerospace segment were down 3 % due to the timing of large projects. Sales in the Medical
segment were down 2 % reflecting a weakness in the North American blood filtration business. By geography, sales in the Western Hemisphere grew 3%, driven by strong growth in BioPharmaceuticals and General Industrial. These gains were partly offset by decreases in Medical and Aerospace. Sales in Asia increased 13 %, with all segments contributing to this gain, with the exception of Aerospace. Growth in General Industrial sales in Asia was particularly strong at 24%. In Europe, sales were flat as growth in Life Sciences business was offset by decreases in Microelectronics and General Industrial (Municipal Water, Machinery   Equipment and Power Generation). For a detailed discussion of sales, refer to  Review of Market Segments and Geographies.   

  Cost of sales in the year, as a percentage of sales, was 51.5% as compared to 50.8% in fiscal year 2004, reflecting the impact of increased systems business (i.e., which have lower gross margins) as well as pricing reductions in the Medical segment, partly offset by savings generated from the Company s cost reduction initiatives.   

  Selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, improved to 32.7% in fiscal year 2005 as compared to 33% last year. In fiscal year 2005, savings realized from cost reduction initiatives (see discussion below) and reduced bonus levels were partly offset by costs related to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and the ongoing vertical integration of our businesses. Foreign currency translation is estimated to have increased selling, general and administrative expenses by approximately $20,200 in fiscal year 2005. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales improved 40 basis points as compared with fiscal year 2004. In fiscal year 2005, the Company continued to move forward with its cost reduction initiatives. Savings generated from these programs (net of cost increases for plastics, steel, energy costs and
freight) approximated $14,000 in fiscal year 2005.   

  Research and development expenses decreased $1,096 in dollars and to 3% of sales from 3.2% in fiscal year 2004. Fiscal year 2005 reflects spending on biotechnology products, such as chromatography, prion filters and industrial material projects.   

  In
    fiscal year 2005, the Company recorded restructuring and other charges, net,
    of $38,763, primarily related to the Company s cost reduction initiatives
    including its divisional realignment plans. In addition, restructuring and
    other charges, net, include the write-down of the investment in VITEX that
    was deemed other-than-temporarily impaired and an increase to previously
    established environmental reserves. Furthermore, restructuring and other
    charges, net included a charge of $11,953 related to the early extinguishment
    of the Company s $100,000 private placement 7.83% unsecured senior notes.
    The charge represents the payment to the note holders under the make-whole
    provision of the notes reduced by the carrying value of the notes. In fiscal
    year 2004, the Company recorded restructuring and other charges, net, of
    $12,477. The restructuring and other charges, net, reflect  severance and
    other costs incurred as a result of streamlining the Company s manufacturing
    operations in the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), Japan and Germany and
    reorganizing the Company s Medical and BioSciences management structure,
    as well as the sale of certain manufacturing plants in Germany. Additionally,
    restructuring and other charges, net, reflects an increase in environmental
    liabilities of $20,837 principally as a result of a change in the estimated
    duration and costs of the remediation effort at the Ann Arbor, Michigan facility
    of the Company s subsidiary Gelman Sciences, partly offset by a gain
    on the sale of the Company s investment in Oiltools International and
    non-recurring income related to a decrease of pension liabilities in Germany.
    The adjustment to pension liabilities was due to an over accrual of pension
    expense that occurred during the preceding five-year period, the effect of
    which was not significant in any period. The details of the  charges for
    the years ended July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004 can be found in the Restructuring
    and Other Charges, Net note accompanying the consolidated financial statements.  

  Net
    interest expense in fiscal year 2005 increased to $25,950 from $20,501 in
    fiscal year 2004. The increase in net interest expense reflects the impact
    of higher interest rates on the Company s
    variable rate debt and the termination of fixed to variable rate interest
    rate swaps. In addition, interest expense was affected by higher debt levels
    earlier this fiscal year that were partly related to the acquisition of BioSepra.  

  The underlying tax rate (i.e., the tax rate on earnings before income taxes, excluding restructuring and other charges) was 24% in fiscal year 2005, unchanged from fiscal year 2004.   

  Net earnings in fiscal year 2005 were $140,816, or $1.12 per share, compared with net earnings of $151,573, or $1.20 per share in fiscal year 2004. In summary, net earnings reflect organic sales growth and an improvement in selling, general and administrative expenses (as a percentage of sales) offset by the impact of lower gross margins as well as increased net interest expense and restructuring and other charges, net. The Company estimates that foreign currency translation added approximately 4 cents to earnings per share in fiscal year 2005.   

  24  

Back to Contents   
   Review of Market Segments and Geographies    

   Market Segments:    

  The table below presents sales for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004 by market segment, including the effect of exchange rates for comparative purposes. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, the Company implemented the first phase of its divisional alignment plan by integrating the Medical and BioSciences divisions. Accordingly, the BioSciences business, which was formerly reported under the BioPharmaceutical segment, was combined with the Medical segment. Segment information for prior periods has been restated to conform to the current presentation.  

Life Sciences sales in fiscal year 2005 increased 3% compared to fiscal year 2004. Life Sciences represented approximately 40% of total sales in fiscal year 2005 compared with 41% in fiscal year 2004.  

  Within Life Sciences, Medical segment sales in fiscal year 2005 were down 2 %, reflecting a weakness in the Blood Filtration portion of the business. The BioSciences and Hospital portions of the Company s Medical business were up slightly. Medical sales in Europe and Asia were up 4% in both geographies, while sales in the Western Hemisphere, the largest portion of the Medical business, were down 7%. Within Medical, sales in the Blood Filtration submarket were down 6%. The decrease reflects a weakness in the Western Hemisphere (which accounts for approximately 63% of the Company s global Blood Filtration business), where sales were down 8 %. In BioSciences, the other Medical submarket, sales increased 1 %, as growth in Laboratory sales was partly offset by a decline in OEM business.   

  BioPharmaceuticals segment sales in fiscal year 2005 increased 12% compared to fiscal year 2004, driven by strong demand in the biotechnology sector. Systems sales increased 67% compared with fiscal year 2004. The acquisition of BioSepra and Euroflow accounted for 1 % of the BioPharmaceuticals sales growth in the year. By geography, all geographies exhibited strong growth in BioPharmaceuticals sales; however, growth was particularly robust in the Western Hemisphere, where sales increased 17%. The growth in the Western Hemisphere reflects strong demand from the biotechnology sector while Europe continued to recover from tough market conditions related to industry consolidations and the downturn in the plasma market.   

  The Company s Industrial business accounted for approximately 60% of total sales in fiscal year 2005 as compared with 59% in fiscal year 2004. Industrial sales grew 5% in fiscal year 2005, as growth in General Industrial and Microelectronics was partly offset by a decline in Aerospace.   

  General Industrial segment sales, which accounted for about 65% of the Company s Industrial business, were up 7 % compared with fiscal year 2004. The increase in sales in the General Industrial segment was driven by double-digit growth in the Municipal Water and Fuels   Chemicals submarkets.   

  Within General Industrial, Municipal Water sales grew 26% driven by repeat orders from existing municipal customers. Municipal Water sales in Asia almost tripled, as water scarcity is driving growth in this region. Sales in the Western Hemisphere increased 36 % driven by tighter EPA regulations. Sales in Europe were down 8 % partly due to timing of projects in the municipal sector. Sales in the Fuels   Chemicals submarket grew 15% driven by double-digit growth rates in all geographies. The growth in this market reflects energy availability concerns and environmental pressures. Sales in the Power Generation submarket increased 8 %. By geography, sales in Asia were up 57%. Sales in the Western Hemisphere and Europe were down 10% and 6 %, respectively, reflecting timing of large systems sales. Sales in the Machinery   Equipment submarket decreased 1%. By
geography, strong growth in the Western Hemisphere (15 %) and Asia (24%) was offset by a decline in Europe of 13 %. Sales growth in Asia was driven by increased activity in the steel industry in China and in the mining industry in Australia. Food   Beverage sales increased 2 %. By geography, Asia achieved double-digit growth reflecting the Company s success in the regional brewing market. Sales in the Western Hemisphere were down 2%, while sales in Europe were flat.   

  25  

Back to Contents   
  Aerospace sales were down 3 % reflecting the timing of large projects in the Military and Marine Water portion of this business. By geography, overall Aerospace sales in the Western Hemisphere were down 4 %, while sales in Europe were flat. In Asia, the smallest of the Company s Aerospace markets, sales were down 12 %. Military sales decreased 10 % compared to last year reflecting decreases in the Western Hemisphere and Asia of 15 % and 11 %, respectively. Military sales in Europe were up 4 %. Commercial sales increased 7 % reflecting growth in the Western Hemisphere and Europe. Military comprised 46% of total Aerospace sales in fiscal 2005 compared with 50% in fiscal 2004.   

  Microelectronics sales in fiscal year 2005 were up 4% reflecting growth in the Western Hemisphere (4 %) and Asia (9 %). In Europe, sales were down 15% reflecting the malaise blanketing the industry there.   

  The consolidated operating profit as a percentage of sales was 16.7% in fiscal year 2005 as compared to 17.5% in fiscal year 2004. The reduction in operating profit margin reflects the impact of higher systems sales, which carry lower margins, pricing pressures in the Company s Medical segment and lower profitability in the Company s Aerospace segment due to a decline in Military sales. The growth in systems sales negatively impacted margins in the BioPharmaceuticals and General Industrial segments as well as margins in all geographies. The above factors were partially offset by the impact of the Company s cost reduction initiatives and increased overall sales. Operating profit dollars increased by $8,488, or 2 %, to $317,646. The operating profit details for the years ended July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004 can be found in the Segment Information and Geographies note
accompanying the consolidated financial statements.   

   Geographies:   

  The table below presents sales for the years ended July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004 to unaffiliated customers by geography, including the effect of exchange rates for comparative purposes.   

By geography, sales in the Western Hemisphere increased 3% in both local currency and on a reported basis compared with fiscal year 2004, as strong growth in BioPharmaceuticals and General Industrial was partly offset by a decline in Medical and Aerospace. Exchange rates increased sales in the year by $2,500, primarily related to the strengthening of the Canadian dollar. Operating profit increased to 17.5% of total sales (including intercompany sales to other geographies) as compared with 14.9% in fiscal year 2004. Operating profit dollars increased $33,628, or 26 % reflecting the improvement in margin as well as the growth in sales.   

  In Europe, sales were flat as double-digit growth in BioPharmaceuticals and modest growth in Medical was offset by decreases in General Industrial (Municipal Water, Machinery   Equipment and Power Generation) and Microelectronics. The strengthening of European currencies added $42,541 in sales resulting in reported sales growth of 6 %. Operating profit was 11.1% of total sales (including intercompany sales to other geographies) as compared to 14.4% in fiscal year 2004, while operating profit dollars were down $19,976, or 16 %.   

  Sales in Asia increased 13 % with all segments contributing to this gain with the exception of Aerospace. The strengthening of Asian currencies added $13,584 in sales, resulting in reported sales growth of 17 %. Operating profit was 14.6% of total sales (including intercompany sales to other geographies) as compared with 16.8% in fiscal year 2004, reflecting the impact of increased General Industrial system sales. Operating profit dollars increased by $1,403, or 2%.  

  General corporate expenses decreased $7,323 in fiscal year 2005. The decline in expenses reflects the impact of the Company s cost reduction initiatives, reduced bonus expense and a decrease in consulting expenses (related to cost reduction initiatives) partly offset by increased costs related to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance initiatives.  

  26  

Back to Contents   

Liquidity and Capital Resources   
  Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2006 was $218,828, an increase of $57,220, or 35 % as compared with fiscal year 2005. The increase in cash flow reflects an improvement in accounts receivable days sales outstanding ( DSO ), the impact of the transaction with Satair, increased net earnings as well as changes in working capital items, particularly inventories and reduced payments for income taxes.  
  Free cash flow, which is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, was $122,861 in fiscal year 2006, as compared with $75,455 in fiscal year 2005. The increase in free cash flow reflects the factors discussed above, partly offset by a higher level of capital expenditures. Company management believes this measure is important because it is a key element of its planning. The Company utilizes free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure, as one way to measure its current and future financial performance. The following table reconciles free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities.  

The Company s balance sheet is affected by spot exchange rates used to translate local currency amounts into U.S. dollars. In comparing spot exchange rates at July 31, 2006 to those at July 31, 2005, the British Pound and the Euro have strengthened against the U.S. dollar, while the Japanese Yen has weakened against the U.S. dollar.  
  Working capital was approximately $846,200, a ratio of 2.6 at July 31, 2006 as compared with $703,300, a ratio of 2.5 at July 31, 2005. DSO improved to 75 days, as compared to 84 days in fiscal year 2005. Inventory turns were 2.64 for the year ended July 31, 2006 as compared to 2.85 for the year ended July 31, 2005. The effect of foreign exchange increased working capital, excluding cash by $12,255, including net inventory, net accounts receivable and other current assets by $8,058, $13,735 and $2,106, respectively, as compared with fiscal year 2005. Additionally, foreign exchange increased accounts payable and other current liabilities by $9,537.   
  In
    August 2005, the Company sold its investment in VITEX and recorded a gain
    on the sale of $1,806, net of fees and commissions. In addition, in January
    2006, the Company sold its stock rights in Satair and recorded a gain of
    $394. For more detail regarding these transactions, refer to the Restructuring
    and Other Charges, Net note accompanying the consolidated financial statements.  
  Overall, net debt (debt net of cash and cash equivalents), as a percentage of total capitalization (net debt plus equity), was 24.7% as compared to 24.5% at July 31, 2005. Net debt increased by approximately $14,800 compared with July 31, 2005 reflecting an increase in gross debt of $163,200 partly offset by an increase in cash of $147,400. The impact of foreign exchange rates reduced net debt by about $1,000. On June 21, 2006, the Company and certain wholly-owned subsidiary borrowers, entered into a multi-currency (U.S.$, Pound, Euro), five-year $500,000 unsecured senior revolving credit facility ( the facility ) with a syndicate of banks, which expires on June 21, 2011. Borrowings under the new facility bear interest at either a variable rate based upon LIBOR (U.S.$ and Pound borrowings) or Euribor (Euro borrowings) or at the prime rate of the Administrative Agent (U.S.$
borrowing only). The new facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, financial covenants, representations and warranties and events of defaults. Simultaneously, the Company and one of its domestic subsidiaries borrowed approximately $445,000 under this facility and used the proceeds principally (1) to repay the $213,869 of borrowings, accrued interest and fees due under its then existing $350,000 unsecured senior revolving credit facility entered into on July 29, 2005, (2) to prepay a 90-day term $200,000 loan plus accrued interest, (3) to pay various fees associated with the new facility and (4) for general corporate purposes. The then existing $350,000 unsecured revolving credit facility was simultaneously terminated. Letters of credit outstanding against the $500,000 revolving credit facility as of July 31, 2006 were approximately $14,407.   
  During fiscal year 2007, the Company intends to refinance its Yen 3 billion loan, approximately $26,214, as of July 31, 2006, which is due in its entirety on June 20, 2007. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants of its various debt agreements as of July 31, 2006. For more detail regarding the aforementioned transactions, refer to the Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt note accompanying the consolidated financial statements.  
  Net proceeds from stock plans were $28,964 in fiscal year 2006. Capital expenditures were $95,967 in fiscal year 2006. Depreciation and amortization expense were $87,010 and $8,648, respectively. In fiscal year 2007, capital expenditures are expected to be $110,000, exclusive of capital to be spent under the facilities rationalization and consolidation plan, which is estimated to be $15,000 - $20,000 in fiscal year 2007 depending on the timing of the closure and consolidation. Depreciation and amortization expense are expected to total approximately $104,000.   

  27  

Back to Contents   
  On October 17, 2003, the Board of Directors authorized the expenditure of up to $200,000 to repurchase shares of the Company s common stock. Furthermore, on October 14, 2004, the Board of Directors authorized an additional expenditure of another $200,000 to repurchase shares. During fiscal years 2004 and 2005, the Company repurchased stock of $75,000 and $64,246, respectively. In fiscal year 2006, the Company repurchased stock of $100,727 leaving $160,027 remaining at July 31, 2006 of the $400,000 authorized. In fiscal year 2006, the Company paid dividends of $52,379. The Company increased its quarterly dividend by 10%, from 10 to 11 cents per share, effective with the dividend that was declared on January 19, 2006.   
  In
    the fourth quarter the Company completed its plans to repatriate low taxed
    foreign earnings under the AJCA and brought
    $398,000 in foreign subsidiary earnings into the U.S. at a cost of $17,000
    or 14 cents per share. Repatriating these earnings under the AJCA allowed
    the Company to minimize taxes ultimately paid on these earnings. As of July
    31, 2006 the proceeds of the dividend were utilized to repay approximately
    $200,000
    of
    U.S. debt as discussed in the proceeding paragraph, fund qualified U.S. defined-benefit
    pension plans of approximately $39,000 ($28,000 of which was in excess of
    minimum funding required) as well as fund non-executive compensation in the
    U.S.; all in accordance with the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.  
  On July 21, 2006, several foreign, non-U.S. dollar functional currency, subsidiary borrowers initiated loans under the new facility to facilitate the funding of a substantial portion of the aforementioned repatriation made pursuant to the implementation plan under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Such borrowings were individually Pound 36,000 (U.S.$67,266) and Euro 141,400 (U.S.$180,483) (U.S. dollar equivalents stated at relevant year-end spot rates) and were used to repay a portion of the initial outstandings under the new facility as well as for other general corporate purposes.   
  Company management considers its existing lines of credit, along with the cash generated from operations, to be sufficient to meet its short-term liquidity needs.   
  The following is a summary of our contractual commitments as of July 31, 2006:  

Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements   
  Effective August 1, 2005, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified-prospective-transition method. Under that transition method, compensation cost recognized for the year ended July 31, 2006 includes: (a) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, August 1, 2005, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123, and (b) compensation cost for the vested portion of share-based payments granted subsequent to August 1, 2005, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). Results for prior periods have not been restated.  
  The following table illustrates the impact of adopting SFAS No. 123(R) on August 1, 2005 on the Company s earnings before income taxes, net earnings and earnings per share (which excludes the effect of certain changes to the Company s stock plans under the 2005 Plan such as restricted stock units granted in contemplation of the change in accounting):  

SFAS No. 123(R) also requires that excess tax benefits related to stock option exercises be reflected as financing cash inflows. For the year ended July 31, 2006, this treatment resulted in cash flows from financing activities of $1,937. The tax benefit recognized related to the total compensation cost for stock-based payment arrangements totaled $2,042 and $353 for the years ended July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercise of the stock-based payment arrangements totaled $4,153 and $4,470 for the years ended July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively.   

  28  

Back to Contents   
  In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Financial Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations ( FIN No. 47 ). FIN No. 47 clarifies that the term  conditional asset retirement obligation  refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/(or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of an entity. An entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. FIN No. 47 was effective for the Company as of the end of fiscal year 2006. The adoption of FIN No. 47 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.  
   Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements   
  In June 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections ( SFAS No. 154 ), which will require entities that voluntarily make a change in accounting principle to apply that change retrospectively to prior periods  financial statements, unless this would be impracticable. SFAS No. 154 supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes ( APB No. 20 ), which previously required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by including in the current period s net earnings the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 also makes a distinction between  retrospective application  of an accounting principle and the  restatement  of financial statements to reflect the correction of an error. Another significant change in practice under SFAS No.
154 will be that if an entity changes its method of depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long-lived, non-financial assets, the change must be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate. Under APB No. 20, such a change would have been reported as a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal year 2007.   
  In June 2006, the FASB issued Financial Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes ( FIN No. 48 ). FIN No. 48 establishes a recognition threshold and measurement for income tax positions recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 also prescribes a two-step evaluation process for tax positions. The first step is recognition and the second is measurement. For recognition, an enterprise judgmentally determines whether it is more-likely-than-not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. If the tax position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold it is measured and recognized in the financial statements as the largest amount of tax benefit
that is greater than 50% likely of being realized. If a tax position does not meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements.  
  Tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold at the effective date of FIN No. 48 may be recognized or, continue to be recognized, upon adoption of FIN No. 48. The cumulative effect of applying the provisions of FIN No. 48 shall be reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings for that fiscal year. FIN No. 48 is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal year 2008, with earlier adoption permitted. The Company is in the process of assessing the effect FIN No. 48 may have on its consolidated financial statements.  
  On
    September 13, 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC )
    issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108 ( SAB No. 108 ) which
    provides interpretive guidance on how the effects of the carryover or reversal
    of prior year misstatements should be considered in quantifying a current
    year misstatement. If the effect of  initial adoption is determined to
    be material, the cumulative effect may be reported as an adjustment to the
    beginning of year retained earnings with disclosure of the nature and amount
    of each
    individual
    error
    being corrected
    in the cumulative adjustment.
    The guidance is applicable for the Company beginning in fiscal year 2007.
    The Company is in the process of assessing the effect SAB No. 108 may have
    on its consolidated financial statements.  
  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ( SFAS No. 157 ). SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for the Company beginning with fiscal year 2009. The Company is in the process of assessing the effect SFAS No. 157 may have on its consolidated financial statements.  
   In
    September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, Employer s
    Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an
amendment of SFAS No. 87, 106, and 132 (R) ( SFAS No. 158 ). SFAS No.
158 requires companies to recognize a net liability or asset and an offsetting
adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income to report the funded status
of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. SFAS No. 158
is effective for the Company s fiscal year ending July 31, 2007. Based upon
the July 31, 2006 balance sheet and pension disclosures, the impact of adopting
SFAS No. 158 is estimated to be an increase in liabilities of $18,000, a decrease
in assets of $24,000 and a pretax increase in the accumulated other comprehensive
loss of $42,000.  

29  

Back to Contents   
          ITEM
  7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK.    
  The Company s primary market risks relate to adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The sensitivity analyses presented below assume simultaneous shifts in each respective rate, and quantify the impact on the Company s earnings and cash flows. The changes used for these analyses reflect the Company s view of changes that are reasonably possible over a one-year period. Actual changes that differ from the changes used for these analyses could yield materially different results.  
   Foreign Currency   
  The Company s reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Because the Company operates through subsidiaries or branches in over thirty countries around the world, its earnings are exposed to translation risk when the financial statements of the subsidiaries or branches, as stated in their functional currencies, are translated into the U.S. dollar. Company management estimates that foreign exchange translation reduced earnings per share by 1 cent in fiscal year 2006.   
  Most of the Company s products are manufactured in the U.S., including Puerto Rico, Germany and the United Kingdom, and then sold into many countries. The primary foreign currency exposures relate to adverse changes in the relationships of the U.S. dollar to the British Pound ( the Pound ), the Japanese Yen ( the Yen ) and the Euro, as well as adverse changes in the relationship of the Pound to the Euro. Exposure exists when the functional currency of the buying subsidiaries weakens against the U.S. dollar, the Pound or the Euro thus causing an increase of the product cost to the buying subsidiary or a reduction in the sales price from the selling subsidiary, which adversely affects the Company s consolidated gross margin and net earnings. The effect of foreign exchange is partially mitigated because of the significant level of manufacturing done in Europe. The
deterioration of the Yen against the U.S. dollar has a greater proportional adverse effect on the Company s earnings because the majority of Japan s purchases are sourced from the U.S. In fiscal year 2006, the Euro, the Pound and the Yen weakened by approximately 3.44%, 3.22% and 7.11%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar compared with the average exchange rates in effect in fiscal year 2005. Additionally, the Euro weakened against the Pound by approximately 0.23%. Due to the difficulty in estimating the economic effect of foreign currency rates, particularly in periods of high volatility of such rates, Company management does not provide such estimated effects and reports only the translation effect to earnings per share disclosed above.  
  The Company is also exposed to transaction risk from adverse changes in exchange rates. These short-term transaction exposures are primarily Yen, Euro, Pound, Singapore dollar and Australian dollar denominated receivables held in the U.S. and Euro-denominated receivables held in the United Kingdom. These short-term exposures to changing foreign currency exchange rates are managed by purchasing forward foreign exchange contracts ( forwards ) to offset the earnings and cash flow impact of non-functional currency denominated receivables and payables as well as the expeditious payment of balances. In addition, the Company enters into loans denominated in foreign currencies to offset the earnings and cash flow impact of nonfunctional currency-denominated receivables. The Company does not enter into forwards for trading purposes. At July 31, 2006, these exposures amounted to
approximately $72,988 and were offset by forwards with a notional principal amount of $33,553. If a hypothetical 10% simultaneous adverse change had occurred in exchange rates, net earnings would have decreased by approximately $3,105, or approximately 3 cents per share.  
   Interest Rates   
  The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily due to its financing and cash management activities, which include long and short-term debt as well as cash and certain short-term, highly liquid investments considered to be cash equivalents.   
  The
    Company s debt portfolio is comprised of both fixed and variable rate
    borrowings. The Company manages the composition of the portfolio, and concurrently
    interest rate exposure by employing interest rate swaps. Giving effect to
    interest rate swaps, the Company s
    debt portfolio was approximately 55% variable rate at July 31, 2006, compared
    to 40% variable rate at July 31, 2005. As of July 31, 2006, the Company had
    cash flow interest rate swaps (i.e., variable to fixed rate swaps) with notional
    amounts
    aggregating $26,214 outstanding. The fair value of the interest rate swaps
    at July 31, 2006 was an asset of $94. The cash flows on the above mentioned
    interest rate swaps mirror the cash flows of the hedged underlying debt instruments.
The Company does not enter into interest rate swaps for trading purposes.  

  30  

Back to Contents   
  For the year ended July 31, 2006, interest expense, net of interest income, was $22,977. A hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates over the actual fiscal year 2006 average rate would have increased net interest expense by approximately $369.   
      ITEM
  8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.    
  The financial statements required by this item are located immediately following the signature pages of this Form 10-K. See Item 15 (a)(1) for a listing of financial statements provided.  
  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)   

(a)    
         
              Refer to the Restructuring and Other Charges, Net note in the notes accompanying the consolidated financial statements.        

ITEM
  9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
  DISCLOSURE.    
  None.  

  31  

Back to Contents   

ITEM
  9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.    

  DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

  For the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006 and prior to the filing date of this Form 10-K, the Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company s management, including the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a 15 and 15d 15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Based on this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.  

  INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  

  (a) Management s report on internal control over financial reporting.  

  The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of July 31, 2006. Management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006 has been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.  

  (b) Attestation report of the registered public accounting firm.  

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

  Board of Directors and Stockholders  

  Pall Corporation:  

  We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that Pall Corporation and subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Pall Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  

  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  
  32  

Back to Contents   

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3)
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  In our opinion, management s assessment that Pall Corporation maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion, Pall Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  

  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Pall Corporation and subsidiaries as of July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended July 31, 2006, and our report dated October 12, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.  

/s/  

KPMG
          LLP  

KPMG
          LLP  

Melville, New York  

  October 12, 2006  

  (c) Changes in internal control over financial reporting.  

  There were no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting during the Company s fiscal fourth quarter ended July 31, 2006, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  

  It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.  

      ITEM
  9B. OTHER INFORMATION.     

  Not applicable.  
  33  

Back to Contents   

PART III    

      ITEM
  10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.    

   (a) Identification of directors:   

  Information required by this item is included in the Proxy Statement under the captions Proposal 1 -  Election of Directors  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  and is incorporated by reference in this report.  

   (b) Identification of executive officers:   

  Information regarding executive officers is contained in Part I, Item 4 of this report, pursuant to General Instruction G of this form.  

  *     *      *  

  The Company has adopted a code of ethics applicable to its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller and other employees with important roles in the financial reporting process, which code was adopted by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors during its meeting in July 2003, in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The code of ethics has been filed as exhibit 14 to this report and is also available on the Company s website located at www.pall.com/policies. In addition, the Company will provide to any person, without charge, upon request, a copy of the code of ethics, by addressing your request in writing to the Corporate Compliance and Ethics Officer, Pall Corporation, 2200 Northern Boulevard, East Hills, New York 11548.  

  The Company intends to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of this code of ethics by posting such information on the website specified above.  

  The board of directors has an audit committee, a compensation committee, an executive committee and a nominating/governance committee. The board of directors has adopted a written charter for each of these committees and a corporate governance policy. In addition, the Company has codes of conduct that apply to every employee and its directors. The charters, corporate governance policy, and codes of conduct are available, without charge, on the Company s website located at www.pall.com or by sending your request in writing to the Corporate Secretary, Pall Corporation, 2200 Northern Boulevard, East Hills, New York 11548.  

      ITEM
  11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.    

  The information required by this item is included in the Proxy Statement under the caption  Compensation and Other Benefits of Senior Management,  and is incorporated by reference in this report.   

      ITEM
  12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
  STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.    

  The information required by this item is included in the Proxy Statement under the captions  Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock and Restricted Stock Units  and  Equity Compensation Plan Information,  and is incorporated by reference in this report.   

      ITEM
  13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.     

  The information required by this item is included in the Proxy Statement under the captions Proposal 1 -   Election of Directors ,  Indebtedness of Executive Officers and Directors under Stock Option Plans  and  Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions,  and is incorporated by reference in this report.   

      ITEM
  14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.    

  The
  information required by this item is included in the Proxy Statement under the
  captions  Audit and Non-Audit Fees  and  Policy on Audit Committee
  Pre-Approval of Audit and Permitted Non-Audit Services,  and is incorporated
  by reference in this report.   
  34  

Back to Contents   

PART IV    

      ITEM
  15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.    

   (a) Documents filed as part of the Form 10-K:   

  (1) The following items are filed as part of this report:  

  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

  Consolidated Balance Sheets   July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005  

  Consolidated Statements of Earnings - years ended July 31, 2006, July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004  

  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity - years ended July 31, 2006, July 31, 2005 and   

  July 31, 2004  

  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - years ended July 31, 2006, July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004  

  Notes to consolidated financial statements  

  (2) The following financial statement schedule is filed as part of this report:  

  Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  

  All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the financial statements or in the notes thereto.  

  (3) Exhibits:  

  The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index are filed or incorporated by reference as part of this report.  

Exhibit Index         

Exhibit     Number     

Description of Exhibit         

3(i)*    

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant as amended through November 23, 1993, filed as Exhibit 3(i) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 30, 1994.      

3(ii)*    

By-Laws of the Registrant as amended through July 18, 2006, filed as exhibit 3(ii) to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 24, 2006.      

4(i)*    

Indenture dated as of August 1, 2002, by and among Pall Corporation as Issuer, the Guarantors named therein, as Guarantors, and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, relating to the Registrant s 6% Senior Notes due August 1, 2012 filed as Exhibit 4(iii) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 3, 2002.      

4(ii)*    

Credit Agreement dated June 21, 2006, between Pall Corporation and JPMorgan Chase Bank and the Other Lenders Party Thereto, filed as Exhibit 4(ii) to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 27, 2006.      

The exhibits filed herewith do not include other instruments with respect to long-term debt of the Registrant and its subsidiaries, inasmuch as the total amount of debt authorized under any such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Registrant agrees, pursuant to Item 601(b) (4) (iii) of Regulation S-K, that it will furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.      

10.1*     

Employment Agreement dated January 21, 2004, as amended and restated effective July 20, 2005, between the Registrant and Eric Krasnoff, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant s Form 8-K filed on July 25, 2005.      

10.2*     

Employment Agreement dated May 1, 2003 between the Registrant and Marcus Wilson, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the 2003 10-K.      

10.3*     

Amendment
    dated August 30, 2005 to Employment Agreement dated May 1, 2003 between the
    Registrant and Marcus Wilson, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Form 8-K filed on September 2, 2005.       

35  

Back to Contents   

36  

Back to Contents   

*  
         
              Incorporated herein by reference.    

Exhibit filed herewith    

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 15(c) of Form 10-K.    
  37  

Back to Contents   

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

Pall Corporation      

October 12, 2006    

By: /s/   

LISA MCDERMOTT      

Lisa McDermott, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer      

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  

38  

Back to Contents   

REPORT
  OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  Board of Directors and Stockholders  

  Pall Corporation:  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pall Corporation and subsidiaries as of July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended July 31, 2006. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the accompanying financial statement schedule. These consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s
    management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In
    our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
    fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Pall Corporation
    and subsidiaries as of July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations
    and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
    July 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
    Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered
    in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
    present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.  

  As discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (R),  Shared-Based Payment , effective August 1, 2005.  

  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Pall Corporation and subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated October 12, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management s assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.  

/s/ 

KPMG LLP     

KPMG LLP   

Melville, New York  

  October 12, 2006  

39  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  
  40  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  
  41  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY   

   (In thousands)   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  

  42  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

   (In thousands)   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  

43  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RELATED MATTERS  

  The Company  

  Pall Corporation and its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively called  the Company  unless the context requires otherwise) manufacture and market filtration, purification and separation products and integrated systems solutions throughout the world to a diverse group of customers within two principal business groups - Life Sciences and Industrial.  

  The Company s fiscal year ends on July 31, and the Company s fiscal quarters end on October 31, January 31 and April 30.   

  Presentation and Use of Estimates  

  The financial statements of the Company are presented on a consolidated basis with its subsidiaries, substantially all of       which are wholly-owned. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.   

  Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries have been translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates as follows: (i) balance sheet accounts at year-end rates, except equity accounts which are translated at historic rates, and (ii) income statement accounts at weighted average rates. Translation gains and losses are reflected in stockholders  equity, while transaction gains and losses, which result from the settlement of foreign denominated receivables and payables at rates that differ from rates in effect at the transaction date, are reflected in earnings. Transaction losses, net, in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to $3,180, $2,796 and $1,727, respectively.  

  To prepare the Company s consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, inventory valuation; provisions for doubtful accounts; asset recoverability; depreciable lives of fixed assets and useful lives of patents and amortizable intangibles; fair value of financial instruments; income tax assets and liabilities; pension valuations; restructuring and other charges; valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations; allocation to market segments; revenue recognition and
liabilities for items such as environmental remediation. The Company is subject to uncertainties such as the impact of future events, economic, environmental and political factors, and changes in the business climate; therefore, actual results may differ from those estimates. When no estimate in a given range is deemed to be better than any other when estimating contingent liabilities, the low end of the range is accrued. Accordingly, the accounting estimates used in the preparation of the Company s consolidated financial statements will change as new events occur, as more experience is acquired, as additional information is obtained and as the Company s operating environment changes. Changes in estimates are made when circumstances warrant. Such changes and refinements in estimation methodologies are reflected in reported results of operations; if material, the effects of changes in estimates are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.  

  Cash and Cash Equivalents  

  All financial instruments purchased with a maturity of three months or less, other than amounts held in the benefits protection trust, are considered cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are held until maturity.  

  Inventories  

  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (on the first-in, first-out method) or market.  

44  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

Investments  

  Investments (which represent an equity interest of less than 20% and have readily determinable market values) are considered available-for-sale securities; as such, these investments are carried at fair value in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities ( SFAS No. 115 ). Unrealized gains and losses on these securities are reported as a separate component of stockholders  equity until realized from sale or when unrealized losses are deemed to be other than temporary. Other than temporary losses are recognized in earnings when management determines that the recoverability of the cost of the investment is unlikely. The Company considers numerous factors, on a case-by-case basis, in evaluating whether the decline in
market value of an available-for-sale security below cost is other than temporary. Such factors include, but are not limited to, (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost; (ii) the financial condition and the near-term prospects of the issuer of the investment; and (iii) whether the Company s intent to retain the investment for the period of time is sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. Investments are included in  Other non-current assets  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

  Acquisition Accounting  

  Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations ( SFAS No. 141 ). SFAS No. 141 requires that the total cost of an acquisition be allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair values at the date of acquisition. The allocation of the purchase price is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies.   

  Long-Lived Assets  

  The Company accounts for its goodwill and intangible assets in accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ( SFAS No. 142 ). As such, goodwill is not amortized and is assessed for impairment at least annually, including whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment might have occurred. The Company evaluates the recoverability of goodwill using a two-step impairment test approach at the reporting unit level. In the first step, the overall fair value for the reporting unit is compared to its book value including goodwill. In the event that the overall fair value of the reporting unit was to be less than the book value, a second step is performed which compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill to the book value of the goodwill. The implied fair value for the goodwill is determined based on the difference between the overall
fair value of the reporting unit and the fair value of the net identifiable assets. If the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than the book value, the difference is recognized as an impairment. No adjustments resulted from this assessment.  

  The Company s amortizable intangible assets, which are comprised almost entirely of patented and unpatented technology and trademarks, are subject to amortization for periods ranging up to 20 years, principally on a straight-line basis. Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets,  principally on the straight-line basis. The estimated useful lives range from 30 to 50 years for buildings, 3 to 10 years for machinery and equipment and 8 to 10 years for furniture and fixtures. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the remaining lease term and building improvements are depreciated over the remaining life of the building.  

  The Company periodically reviews its depreciable and amortizable long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset (or asset group) may not be recoverable. If the sum of the expected cash flows, undiscounted, is less than the carrying amount of the asset (or asset group), an impairment loss is recognized as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset (or asset group) exceeds its fair value.  

  Revenue Recognition  

  Revenue is recognized when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer and when contractual terms have been fulfilled. Long-term contracts are accounted for under the percentage of completion method based upon the ratio of costs incurred to date compared with estimated total costs to complete. The cumulative impact of revisions to total estimated costs is reflected in the period of the change, including anticipated losses.  

45  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

Stock Plans  

  The Company currently has four stock-based employee compensation plans (collectively, the  Stock Plans ), which are described more fully below under the captions Stock Purchase Plans and Stock Option and Restricted Stock Unit Plans. Prior to August 1, 2005, the Company accounted for stock-based compensation related to those Stock Plans under the recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ( APB No. 25 ), and related Interpretations, as permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation ( SFAS No. 123 ). As such, there was no stock-based employee compensation cost recognized in net earnings relating to any shares under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ESPP ) or stock options granted under any of
the existing or terminated stock option plans prior to August 1, 2005 as all stock options were granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of grant. There was, however, stock-based employee compensation cost recognized in net earnings for periods prior to August 1, 2005 resulting from the issuance of restricted stock units under the 2005 Stock Compensation Plan ( 2005 Plan ) and the Management Stock Purchase Plan ( MSPP ).  

  Effective August 1, 2005, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment ( SFAS No. 123(R) ), using the modified-prospective-transition method. Under that transition method, compensation cost recognized for the year ended July 31, 2006 includes: (a) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, August 1, 2005, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123, and (b) compensation cost for the vested portion of share-based payments granted subsequent to August 1, 2005, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). Results for prior periods have not been restated.  

  The Company adopted the 2005 Plan (described in more detail below) in contemplation of the change in the accounting for share-based payments required by SFAS No. 123(R). Specifically, the 2005 Plan provides the Company with the ability to award stock units with various restrictions and vesting requirements. The detailed components of stock-based compensation expense recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended July 31, 2006, July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004 are illustrated in the table below.  

Stock-based compensation expense related to stock options and the ESPP for the years ended July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004 was not recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings, but had been disclosed in the pro forma disclosures as required by SFAS No. 123 and SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123 ( SFAS No. 148 ).  

  The following table illustrates the impact of adopting SFAS No. 123(R) on August 1, 2005 on the Company s earnings before income taxes, net earnings and earnings per share (which excludes the effect of certain changes to the Company s stock plans under the 2005 Plan, such as restricted stock units granted, in contemplation of the change in accounting):  

46  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

SFAS No. 123(R) also requires that excess tax benefits related to stock option exercises be reflected as financing cash inflows. For the year ended July 31, 2006, this treatment resulted in cash flows from financing activities of $1,937. The tax benefit recognized related to the total compensation cost for stock-based payment arrangements totaled $2,042, $353 and $338 for the years ended July 31, 2006, July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercise of the stock-based payment arrangements totaled $4,153, $4,470 and $3,361 for the years ended July 31, 2006, July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004, respectively.  

  The following table illustrates the effect on net earnings and earnings per share for the years ended July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004 as if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 (R) to options granted under the Company s stock plans prior to adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on August 1, 2005. No pro forma disclosure has been made for periods subsequent to August 1, 2005 as all stock-based compensation has been recognized in net earnings. For purposes of this pro forma disclosure and compensation cost recorded in the Company s condensed consolidated financial statements, the value of the options is estimated using a Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing formula and amortized to expense over the options  service periods.  

The following weighted average assumptions were used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted during the fiscal years:  

The Company has placed exclusive reliance on historical volatility in its estimate of expected volatility. The Company used a sequential period of historical data equal to the expected term (or expected life) of the options using a simple average calculation based upon the daily closing prices of the aforementioned period.   

  The expected life (years) represents the period of time for which the options granted are expected to be outstanding. This estimate was derived from historical share option exercise experience, which management believes provides the best estimate of the expected term.  

  The following paragraphs describe each of the aforementioned stock-based compensation plans in detail:  

  Stock Purchase Plans  

  During fiscal year 2000, the Company s shareholders approved two stock purchase plans, the MSPP and the ESPP. Participation in the MSPP is limited to certain executives as designated by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, which also established common stock ownership targets for participants. Participation in the ESPP is available to all employees except those that are included in the MSPP.  

47  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

The purpose of the MSPP is to encourage key employees of the Company to increase their ownership of shares of the Company s common stock by providing such employees with an opportunity to elect to have portions of their total annual compensation paid in the form of restricted units, to make cash purchases of restricted units and to earn additional matching restricted units which vest over a three year period for matches prior to August 1, 2003 and vest over four years for matches made thereafter. Such restricted units aggregated 732 and 616 as of July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively. During the years ended July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, approximately 68 and 77 vested restricted units, respectively, were distributed. During the years ended July 31, 2006, July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004, participants  deferred compensation and cash payments amounted to $3,501, $2,508 and
$2,836. Dividends are paid on unvested restricted units (in the form of additional restricted units) and vest over the remaining service period of the restricted units for which the dividends were recorded. Dividends are paid on vested restricted units (in the form of additional restricted units) and are vested upon grant. As of July 31, 2006, there was $3,623 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock units granted under the MSPP, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.0 years. The total fair value of restricted stock units vested during the years ended July 31, 2006, July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004, was $565, $488 and $636, respectively.  

  The ESPP enables participants to purchase shares of the Company s common stock through payroll deductions at a price equal to 85% of the lower of the market price at the beginning or end of each semi-annual stock purchase period. The semi-annual offering periods end in April and October. For the years ended July 31, 2006, July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004, the Company issued 472, 404 and 304 shares at an average price of $22.10, $21.23 and $18.99, respectively.  

  Both plans provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control (as defined in the plans). All of the above shares were issued from treasury stock.  

  Stock Option and Restricted Stock Unit Plans  

  The Company has adopted several plans that provide for the granting of stock options to employees and non-employee directors at option prices equal to the market price of the common stock at the date of grant. On November 17, 2004, the Company s shareholders approved the 2005 Plan, which had been developed in contemplation of adopting the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). As a result of such approval, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (a) amended the 2001 Stock Option Plan for non-employee directors to reduce the total number of shares remaining available for grants from 261 to 150, and (b) terminated all other stock plans, except that options then outstanding thereunder remained in effect in accordance with their terms. Up to 5,000 shares are issuable under the 2005 Plan. Both plans provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control (as defined in the
plans). The 2005 Plan permits the Company to grant to its employees and non-employee directors other forms of equity compensation in addition to stock options (that is, restricted shares, restricted units, performance shares and performance units).  

  The fair value of the restricted unit awards are determined by reference to the closing price of the stock on the date of the award, and are charged to earnings over the service periods during which the awards are deemed to be earned; one year, in the case of the annual award units to non-employee directors, and four years, in the case of units awarded to employees. The annual award units granted to non-employee directors of the Company (and any related dividends paid in the form of additional units) are converted to shares once the director ceases to be a member of the Board. A total of 14 annual award units were granted during the year ended July 31, 2006, with a weighted-average fair market value of $27.89 per share. Restricted stock units granted to employees cliff-vest after the fourth anniversary of the date of grant. Dividends paid on unvested restricted stock units vest at the same time as the
restricted units for which the dividends were recorded.  

48  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

  A summary of restricted stock unit activity, excluding annual award units, for the 2005 Stock Plan during the year ended July 31, 2006, is presented below:  

As of July 31, 2006 there was $12,173 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock units granted under the 2005 Stock Plan, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.27 years. None of the restricted stock units vested during the year ended July 31, 2006.  

  The forms of options adopted provide that the options may not be exercised within one year from the date of grant, and expire if not completely exercised within 7 years from the date of grant. Generally, in any year after the first year, the options can be exercised with respect to only up to 25% of the shares subject to the option, computed cumulatively. The Company s shareholders have approved all of the Company s stock plans.  

  A summary of option activity for all stock option plans during the year ended July 31, 2006 is presented below:  

As of July 31, 2006, there was $6,193 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended July 31, 2006, July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004 was $7,754, $15,316 and $11,197, respectively. The Intrinsic value is the result of multiplying shares by the amount by which the current market value of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price of the option.  

  The Company currently uses treasury shares that have been repurchased through the Company s stock repurchase program to satisfy share award exercises (see Common Stock footnote).  

Environmental Matters  

  Accruals for environmental matters are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated, based on current law and existing technologies. These accruals are adjusted periodically as facts and circumstances change, assessment and remediation efforts progress or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. Costs of future expenditures for environmental remediation obligations are not discounted to their present value and are expected to be disbursed over an extended period of time. Accruals for environmental liabilities are included in  Accrued liabilities  and  Other non-current liabilities  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

  49  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

  Income Taxes  

  Taxes on income are provided using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse.  

  For further discussion, refer to the Income Taxes note.  

  Earnings Per Share  

  The Consolidated Statements of Earnings present basic and diluted earnings per share. Basic earnings per share is determined by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share considers the potential effect of dilution on basic earnings per share assuming potentially dilutive securities that meet certain criteria, such as stock options, were outstanding since issuance. The treasury stock method is used to determine the dilutive effect of potentially dilutive securities. Employee stock options and restricted stock units of 910, 212 and 166 for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted shares because their effect would have been antidilutive.  

  The following is a reconciliation between basic shares outstanding and diluted shares outstanding:  

(a) Refer to the Stock Plans note for a description of the Company s stock plans.  

  Derivative Instruments  

  The Company accounts for its derivative instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended ( SFAS No. 133 ). SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position based on their fair values. Changes in the fair values are reported in earnings or other comprehensive income depending on the use of the derivative and whether it qualifies for hedge accounting. Derivative instruments are designated and accounted for as either a hedge of a recognized asset or liability (fair value hedge) or a hedge of a forecasted transaction (cash flow hedge). For derivatives designated as effective cash flow hedges, changes in fair values are recognized in other comprehensive income. Changes in fair values related to fair value
hedges as well as the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges are recognized in earnings. Changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item of a fair value hedge are also recognized in earnings. The Company measures ineffectiveness related to hedged foreign currency exchange rate exposures (forward contracts and cross currency swaps) using spot exchange rates.  

  Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements  

  Effective August 1, 2005, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified-prospective-transition method (refer to the Stock Plans section of the Accounting Policies note for further details).  

  In March 2005, the FASB issued Financial Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations ( FIN No. 47 ). FIN No. 47 clarifies that the term  conditional asset retirement obligation  refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/(or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of an entity. An entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. FIN No. 47 was effective for the Company as of the end of fiscal year 2006. The adoption of FIN No. 47 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.  

50  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

  ACQUISITIONS  

  On November 30, 2004, the Company acquired the BioSepra Process Division ( BioSepra ) from Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc. The purchase price was approximately $32,000, net of cash and debt assumed, subject to a post closing adjustment of the purchase price based upon certain quantitative thresholds, as defined in the purchase agreement. The adjustment to the purchase price was finalized on April 11, 2005, resulting in a reduction in the purchase price of approximately $1,100. BioSepra develops, manufactures and markets chromatography sorbents for use in the purification of protein in drug development and production.   

  On January 21, 2005, the Company acquired the remaining interest in Euroflow (UK) of Stroud, England ( Euroflow ) which it did not already own. The purchase price was $1,466, net of cash. Euroflow manufactures pilot and production scale chromatography columns for the biotechnology industry. The Company held exclusive global marketing and distribution rights to Euroflow chromatography columns and associated technologies since 2002. In addition, the Company had loans and advances totaling $9,255 outstanding from Euroflow at the date of acquisition.  

  The July 31, 2006 condensed consolidated balance sheet reflects the final allocation of the purchase prices and non-deductible goodwill of $9,900 related to these acquisitions. The following table summarizes the final allocation of the purchase prices to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the dates of the acquisitions:  

Based upon the markets BioSepra and Euroflow serve, the goodwill was assigned to the Company s BioPharmaceutical segment. Pro forma financial information related to the acquisitions has not been provided, as it is not material to the Company s results of operations and cash flows.  

  51  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

  RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES, NET  

  The following tables summarize the restructuring related items and other charges/(gains) recorded in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004:  

52  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

(1) Restructuring:  

  In connection with the acquisition of the Filtration and Separations Group ( FSG ) in fiscal year 2002, Company management began formulating integration plans and identifying synergistic opportunities. The study led to a much broader initiative to examine the overall structure of the Company and the manner in which it conducted business activities with the objective of increasing revenue growth and achieving cost reduction. This resulted in a series of restructuring activities that have been ongoing since that time, including the realignment of the overall business structure (described summarily below and in more detail in the Segment Information and Geographies note), which commenced at the end of fiscal year 2004, and the Company s facilities rationalization initiative and European cost reduction ( EuroPall ) initiative, which commenced in fiscal year 2006.  

2004:  

The Company implemented a plan to reorganize and streamline its operations in Japan. The plan, which affected both sales and support personnel, was aimed at increasing productivity to result in a more efficient sales-focused operation in Japan. As a result of these actions, the Company recorded severance liabilities for the termination of certain employees and exit costs related to the relocation of its Japan headquarters.       

The Company continued its plan to streamline manufacturing operations which resulted in headcount reductions in the United Kingdom and Germany as well as the sale of certain manufacturing plants in Germany primarily acquired as part of the FSG acquisition.       

In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004, the Company implemented a plan to reorganize its Medical and BioSciences management structure in order to better serve its customers in these markets. As a result of the plan, certain management positions were made redundant and the Company recorded severance liabilities for the termination of employees.        

2005:  

The Company began to implement its plan to reorganize its business structure into vertically-integrated business groups, as discussed further in the Segment Information and Geographies note, and continued its cost reduction initiatives. As a result, the Company recorded severance liabilities for the termination of certain employees worldwide as well as other costs related to the reorganization.        

In the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, the Company completed the sale begun in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004 of certain manufacturing plants in Germany acquired as part of the FSG acquisition, which resulted in the recognition of a gain of $387.       

2006:  

The Company continued its realignment plan and cost reduction initiatives, including its facilities rationalization initiative and its initiative to optimize European operations ( EuroPall ). As a result, the Company recorded severance liabilities for the termination of certain employees worldwide as well as other costs related to these initiatives. In addition, the Company recorded a gain on the sale of assets, primarily related to the sale of a building in the Western Hemisphere as part of its facilities rationalization initiative.        

53  

Back to Contents   

   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

The following table summarizes the activity related to restructuring liabilities that were recorded in fiscal years 2006 2005 and 2004:  

(a)    

Amounts reflected as severance liabilities for fiscal year 2006 exclude $227 related to non-cash stock compensation.       

(b)    

Other changes reflect translation impact.        

(c)    

Reflects the reversal of excess restructuring reserves originally recorded in fiscal years 2005 and 2004.        

(2) Other Charges/(Gains):  

(a) Investments:  

In fiscal year 2004, the Company recorded a gain on the sale of its investment in Oiltools International of $7,580.   

  In fiscal year 2005, the Company recorded a charge of $2,875 for the other-than-temporary diminution in value of its investment in Panacos Pharmaceuticals, Inc., formerly known as V.I. Technologies, Inc. ( VITEX ). In addition, the Company recorded a charge of $740 for the other-than-temporary diminution of a certain investment in equity securities held by its benefits protection trust.   

In fiscal year 2006, the Company sold all of the 617.5 shares it held of VITEX for total proceeds aggregating $6,783. The cost basis at the time of the sale, as adjusted by previous impairment charges, was $4,940. As a result, the Company recorded a gain of $1,806, net of fees and commissions. Furthermore, the Company sold its stock rights in Satair A/S ( Satair ) for total proceeds aggregating $641. The cost basis of the rights at the time of the sale was $247. As a result, the Company recorded a gain of $394.  
  54  

Back to Contents   

   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

For further discussion of the Company s investments, refer to the Other Current and Non-Current Assets note.  

(b) Environmental
          Matters:  

In fiscal year 2004, the Company increased its environmental liabilities by $20,837, principally as a result of a change in the estimated duration and costs of the remediation effort at the Ann Arbor, Michigan facility of the Company s subsidiary Gelman Sciences.  

  In fiscal year 2005, the Company further increased its environmental remediation reserves by $2,077 primarily related to environmental matters in Sea Cliff, New York and Pinellas Park, Florida.  

  In fiscal year 2006, the Company increased its previously established environmental reserves by $925 primarily related to environmental matters in Ann Arbor, Michigan and Pinellas Park, Florida.  

  For more detail regarding environmental matters, please refer to the Contingencies and Commitments note.  

(c)
          Early extinguishment of debt, net:  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005, the Company recorded a charge of $11,953 related to the early extinguishment of its $100,000 private placement 7.83% unsecured senior notes. The charge represents the payment to the note holders under the make-whole provision of the notes reduced by the Company s carrying value of the notes.  

(d) German
          pension liability:  

Reflects an adjustment in fiscal year 2004 to pension liabilities in Germany due to an over accrual of pension expense that occurred during the preceding five-year period, the effect of which was not significant in any period.  

  ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE  

  Accounts receivable are summarized as follows:  

Unbilled receivables principally relate to long-term contracts recorded under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting.  

  INVENTORIES  

  The major classes of inventory, net, are as follows:  

55  

Back to Contents   
   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  

  Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:  

GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS  

  The following table presents goodwill, net of accumulated amortization (from prior to adopting SFAS No. 142), allocated by reportable segment, in accordance with SFAS No. 142:  

The decrease in the carrying amount of goodwill is primarily attributable to the changes in the final allocation of the purchase price from the acquisition of Euroflow as discussed in the Acquisitions note. This was partly offset by the changes in foreign exchange rates used to translate the goodwill contained in the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries using the rates at each respective balance sheet date. Refer to the Segment Information and Geographies note for a more detailed description of the reportable segments.   

  Intangible assets consist of the following:  

Patents and trademarks include costs to register new patents and trademarks. Patents also include expenditures to successfully defend certain patents.  

56  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

The decrease in the gross amount of patents and unpatented technology compared to fiscal year 2005 primarily reflects the write-off of fully amortized patents of approximately $18,600, partly offset by the recording of $8,000 related to the finalization of the valuation of intangible assets purchased in the Euroflow acquisition, as discussed above. The fair value of these intangibles had not been determined as of July 31, 2005. As such, their cost had been preliminarily allocated based upon their book values.  

  Amortization expense for intangible assets for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $8,463, $6,762 and $7,888, respectively. Amortization expense is estimated to be approximately $8,120 in 2007, $7,188 in 2008, $6,782 in 2009, $6,776 in 2010 and $6,856 in 2011.  

  OTHER CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT ASSETS  

  Other current assets consist of the following:  

Other non-current assets consist of the following:  

a)    

Refer to the Income Taxes note for further discussion.       

b)    

Retirement benefit assets are held to satisfy obligations related to certain unfunded retirement benefit plans, which provide benefits to eligible employees in Germany and the U.S. Included therein are guaranteed investment contracts of $26,685 and $24,795 as of July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively. The guaranteed investment contracts were established to pay for supplementary retirement benefits related to unfunded plans in Germany. The July 31, 2006, and July 31, 2005, balance sheets reflect related liabilities in the amounts of $55,596 and $51,814, respectively.        

Also included within retirement benefit assets is a benefits protection trust, with assets aggregating $57,750 and $35,203 as of July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively. The trust was established for the purpose of satisfying certain unfunded supplemental post-employment benefit obligations in the U.S. for eligible executives in the event of a change of control of the Company. In addition to holding cash equivalents primarily to satisfy short-term cash requirements relating to benefit payments, the trust primarily invests in U.S. government obligations, debt obligations of corporations and financial institutions with high credit ratings and equity mutual fund shares. Contractual maturity dates of debt securities held by the trust range from 2007 to 2039. Such debt and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and aggregated $55,648 and $33,522 as of July 31, 2006 and
July 31, 2005, respectively. The July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, balance sheets reflect retirement benefit assets held in the trust of $51,860 and $35,203, related to retirement benefit liabilities of $53,627 and $55,014, respectively.  

57  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

The Company has invested in certain companies to form strategic alliances, enabling the Company to broaden its portfolio of products. Included in investments are certain investments of $4,037 and $6,576 at July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively, that the Company classifies as available-for-sale. Amongst these investments is the Company s investment in Satair of $4,037 and $2,871, at July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively. In addition, such investments at July 31, 2005 included the Company s investment in VITEX, a developer of blood products and systems. In August 2005, the Company sold its investment in VITEX. For more detail regarding this transaction, refer to the Restructuring and Other Charges, Net note.   

  The following is a summary of the Company s available-for-sale investments by category at July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005:  

The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of the Company s available-for-sale investments with unrealized losses aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position:  

58  

Back to Contents   

   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

The following table shows the proceeds and gross gains and losses from the sale of available-for-sale investments for the years ended July 31, 2006, July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004:  

c)    

Prepaid pension expenses represent the non-current amounts arising from the excess of cumulative employer contributions over accrued net pension expenses. Intangible pension assets represent the unfunded accumulated benefit obligations to the extent of unrecognized prior service costs. Refer to the Pension and Profit Sharing Plans and Arrangements note for further discussion.        

NOTES PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT  

  At July 31, 2006, the Company had unsecured credit facilities which require no compensating balances, totaling approximately $166,356. In addition to providing short-term liquidity and overdraft protection, these facilities also support various programs (such as guarantee, performance bond and warranty) mandated by customers and other financial exposures (foreign exchange forward contracts) of the Company. At July 31, 2006, notes payable were $35,821 and an additional $11,027 was committed to various other programs. The weighted average interest rates on notes payable at the end of fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were 4.6% and 3.7%, respectively.  

  Long-term debt consists of:  

59  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

Borrowings under the new facility bear interest at either a variable rate based upon LIBOR (US$ and   borrowings) or Euribor (Euro borrowings) or at the prime rate of the Administrative Agent (US$ borrowing only). The new facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, financial covenants, representations and warranties and events of defaults. The financial covenants are as follows:  

i.    

Minimum interest coverage ratio: The Ratio of Earnings Before Net Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and the Non-Cash Portion of Non-Recurring Charges and Income ( EBITDA ) to Net Interest Expense shall not be less than 3.5 to 1, computed on the basis of cumulative results for the most recently ended four consecutive quarters.       

ii.    

Maximum funded debt ratio: The Ratio of Consolidated Funded Debt to EBITDA shall not exceed 3.5 to 1, EBITDA computed on the basis of cumulative results for the most recently ended four consecutive quarters.       

The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants of its various debt agreements as of July 31, 2006.  

  On July 21, 2006, several foreign, non-U.S. dollar functional currency, subsidiary borrowers initiated loans under the new facility to facilitate the funding of a substantial portion of the dividend payment of $398,000 made pursuant to the implementation plan under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Such borrowings were individually Pound 36,000 (U.S.$67,266) and Euro 141,400 (U.S.$180,483) (U.S. dollar equivalents stated at relevant year-end spot rates) and were used to repay a portion of the initial outstandings under the new facility as well as for other general corporate purposes.   

(c)    

On August 6, 2002, the Company completed a private placement offering of $280,000 6% senior notes due on August 1, 2012. The notes are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company and rank pari passu to its other outstanding unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.        

(d)    

The Company refinanced its Yen 3 billion loan (approximately $26,214 as of July 31, 2006), which was due on June 20, 2005, until June 20, 2007. Interest payments are at a variable rate based upon Yen LIBOR. The Company has designated the June 2005 Yen 3 billion loan as a non-derivative hedge of its net Yen investment in a Japanese subsidiary. As a result of such designation, adjustments related to the fair market value of the Yen 3 billion loan are reported in other comprehensive income.        

(e)    

Refer to the Financial Instruments and Risks and Uncertainties note for further discussion of the Company s hedging activities.       

60  

Back to Contents   

   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt during fiscal years 2007 through 2011 are approximately as follows:  

Interest expense, net, for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 is comprised of:  

FINANCIAL
  INSTRUMENTS AND RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES  

  The Company is exposed to market risks, such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The purpose of the Company s foreign currency hedging program is to reduce the risk caused by short-term changes in exchange rates. To accomplish this, the Company uses certain contracts, primarily foreign currency forward contracts ( forwards ), which minimize cash flow risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company manages interest risk using a mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. To manage this risk in a cost       efficient manner, the Company enters into interest rate swaps in which the Company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. Derivative instruments are not
used for speculative or trading purposes.  

  The Company entered into two consecutive, non-concurrent,   receive fixed, pay variable  fair value interest rate swap transactions related to the $280,000 private placement 6.00% notes due in 2012. Both transactions had an aggregate notional amount of $230,000 and both were terminated prior to maturity. The initial swap was entered into in fiscal year 2003 and terminated that same year to monetize, or realize, gains in the fair market value of the swap. Proceeds, net of accrued interest due to the Company of $2,667, were $13,467 and are being amortized as a reduction of interest expense over the remaining life of the underlying indebtedness. The second swap was entered into in fiscal year 2003 (concurrent with the termination of the first swap) and was terminated in fiscal year 2005 to effect a decision by management to increase the fixed rate portion of the Company s
debt portfolio in response to changes in the interest rate environment. The cash outlay, augmented by accrued interest due to the Company of $894, totaled $10,938; such amount being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the remaining life of the underlying indebtedness. The unamortized balance of both swaps, netting to $160 at July 31, 2006, is reflected as a realized adjustment to the carrying value of the underlying indebtedness.  

  The components of SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment, net, as reflected in the note entitled  Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt  are as follows:  

On March 7, 2003, the Company entered into a forward dated  receive variable, pay fixed  interest rate swap related to the Yen 3 billion loan that matured in June 2005, whereby the Company received payments at a variable rate based upon Yen LIBOR and made payments at a fixed rate of .95% on a notional amount of Yen 3 billion. Concurrent with the maturity of the underlying Yen 3 billion loan, this swap terminated in June 2005. On May 9,  2005 the Company entered into a forward dated  receive variable, pay fixed  interest rate swap related to the June 2005 refinancing of the Yen 3 billion loan. The Company receives payments at a variable rate based upon Yen LIBOR, and makes payments at an all-in fixed rate of 0.36% on a notional amount of Yen 3 billion. The swap has the same term as the underlying Yen 3 billion loan.   

  61  

Back to Contents   

   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

In April 2003, the Company amended the terms of the  receive variable, pay fixed  interest rate swap related to certain borrowings under the senior credit facility. The Company received payments at a variable rate based on LIBOR and made payments at an effective rate of 4.3% on a notional amount of $25,000. The swap expired in February 2006.  

  In June 2005, pursuant to the execution of a Yen 3.5 billion loan from a U.S. dollar functional Netherlands subsidiary of the Company ( PNBV ) to a Japanese subsidiary of the Company ( NPL ), PNBV entered into a cross currency swap with a financial institution. Under the terms of the agreement, PNBV will make interest payments to the financial institution at a fixed rate, based upon a notional amount of Yen 3.5 billion. In return, the financial institution will make interest payments to PNBV, at a fixed rate, based upon a $32,154 notional amount (the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Yen 3.5 billion based upon the spot rate on the date of the closing of this transaction). At the end of this arrangement, PNBV will remit the Yen 3.5 billion principal, which it will receive from NPL, to the financial institution, who in turn will remit the $32,154 to PNBV. As of July 31,
2006, the fair value of the cross currency swap was an asset of $1,289. Other comprehensive income includes an unrealized loss of $283 on the cross currency swap, of which $16 is expected to be reclassified into earnings within one year.  

  As of July 31, 2006, the Company had interest rate swaps and forwards outstanding with notional amounts aggregating $26,214 and $33,553 respectively, whose fair values were an asset of $94 and $501, respectively. Other comprehensive income includes $94 of cumulative unrealized gains on variable to fixed rate interest rate swaps (i.e., cash flow hedges) all of which is expected to be reclassified into earnings within one year.  

  The credit risk related to the interest rate swaps and the forwards is considered low because such instruments are entered into only with financial institutions having high credit ratings and are generally settled on a net basis.  

  The Company considers the fair value of all non-derivative financial instruments to be not materially different from their carrying value at year-end, except for fixed rate debt with a face value of $280,000, a carrying value of $280,161 and a fair value of $289,800. The fair market value was determined by calculating the present value of all future cash flows (i.e., interest and principal) using the discount factor mandated by the indenture in the event of early extinguishment.  

  The Company s cash and cash equivalents are in high-quality securities placed with a wide array of financial institutions with high credit ratings limiting the Company s exposure to concentration of credit risks.   

  The Company s products are sold to a diverse group of customers throughout the world. The Company is subject to certain risks and uncertainties as a result of changes in general economic conditions, sources of supply, competition, foreign exchange rates, tax reform, litigation and regulatory developments. The diversity and breadth of the Company s products and geographic operations mitigate the risk that adverse changes in any event would materially affect the Company s financial position. Additionally, as a result of the diversity of its customer base, the Company does not consider itself exposed to concentration of credit risks. These risks are further minimized by placing credit limits, ongoing monitoring of customers  account balances, and assessment of customers  financial strength.  

  62  

Back to Contents   

   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

INCOME
  TAXES  

  The components of earnings before income taxes are as follows:   

A reconciliation of the provisions for income taxes follows:   

The Company has two Puerto Rico subsidiaries that are organized as  possessions corporations  as defined in Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Small Business Job Protection Act of 1996 repealed Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code which provided a tax credit for U.S. companies with operations in certain U.S. possessions, including Puerto Rico.   

  For Pall Corporation, the repeal was effective July 31, 2006. The Company has formed a Puerto Rico Limited Liability Company ( LLC ), which purchased the assets and operations of the two Section 936 companies effective July 31, 2006. The LLC is a subsidiary of a wholly-owned controlled foreign corporation ( CFC ). The Company also operates another Puerto Rico entity as a branch of this wholly-owned CFC.   

  Under U.S. tax principles, the earnings of a CFC are normally subject to U.S. tax only upon repatriation. Accordingly, no taxes have been provided on the unrepatriated earnings of this subsidiary.   

  63  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

  The components of the net deferred tax asset at July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, are as follows:  

As of July 31, 2006, the Company had available tax net operating loss, tax capital loss and tax credit carry forwards subject to expiration as follows:  

The valuation allowance has been reduced by $6,644 during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006. This reduction primarily resulted from the release of valuation allowances due to the Company s ability to utilize certain capital losses and tax credits.  

  In evaluating the reasonableness of the valuation allowance, management assesses whether it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Ultimately, the realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon generation of future taxable income during those periods in which temporary differences become deductible and/or credits can be utilized. To this end, management considers the level of historical taxable income, the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, tax-planning strategies and projected future taxable income. Based on these considerations, and the indefinite carry-forward availability of certain deferred tax credits (principally related to alternative minimum tax), management believes it is more likely than not that the Company will realize the benefit of the deferred tax asset, net of the July 31, 2006 valuation allowance.  

  If subsequently recognized, the tax benefit attributable to $38,566 of the total valuation allowance would be charged to goodwill. This valuation allowance relates primarily to pre-acquisition tax operating loss and tax capital loss carry forwards.  

  On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Act ) was signed into law. The Act provided for a special one-time tax deduction of 85% of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated, as defined in the Act. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company completed the repatriation of foreign earnings through intercompany dividends in the amount of $398,000 under the provisions of the Act. This action resulted in an incremental tax charge of approximately $17,000.   

64  

Back to Contents   

   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

  As of July 31, 2006, the Company has not provided deferred taxes on $700,925 of undistributed foreign subsidiaries  earnings because it intends to invest substantially all such earnings in its foreign operations indefinitely, except where it is possible to repatriate these earnings to the United States without a material incremental tax.   

  Pall Corporation and its domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated Federal income tax return.  

  ACCRUED AND OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES  

  Accrued liabilities consist of the following:  

Other non-current liabilities consist of the following:  

(a)    

For further discussion regarding environmental remediation liabilities refer to the Contingencies and Commitments note.        

(b)    

On December 16, 2005, the Company sold the rights to its Western Hemisphere commercial aerospace aftermarket distribution channel for the Company s products for a ten-year period to Satair. The proceeds received for the distribution rights were recorded as deferred revenue and are being amortized as an increase to sales over the life of the distribution agreement.        

PENSION AND PROFIT SHARING PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS  

  Pension Plans  

  The Company provides substantially all domestic and foreign employees with retirement benefits. Funding policy for domestic plans, which is primarily comprised of a cash balance pension plan, is in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA  for foreign plans, funding is determined by local tax laws and other regulations. Pension costs charged to operations totaled $32,819, $29,890 and $24,962 in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

65  

Back to Contents   

   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

  The Company uses a July 31 measurement date for its defined benefit pension plans. The following table reflects the change in benefit obligations, change in plan assets and funded status for these plans:  

66  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

Net periodic benefit cost for the Company s defined benefit pension plans includes the following components:  

The following table provides the weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost:  

The Company determines its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis. To develop the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption, the Company considers the current level of expected returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based upon the target asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption for the portfolio.   

  The following table provides the Company s weighted average target plan asset allocation and actual asset allocation by asset category:  

The Company s investment objective for defined benefit plan assets is to meet the plans  benefit obligations, while preserving plan assets. The investment strategies focus on asset class diversification, liquidity to meet benefit payments and an appropriate balance of long-term return and risk. Plan assets are diversified across several investment managers and are generally invested in liquid funds that track broad market equity and bond indices. Plan fiduciaries oversee the investment allocation process, which includes selecting investment managers, commissioning periodic asset-liability studies, setting long-term strategic targets and monitoring asset allocations.   

  67  

Back to Contents   

   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

  Management s estimate of the Company s cash requirements for the defined benefit plans for the year ending July 31, 2007 is $17,828. This is comprised of expected benefit payments of $8,940, which will be paid directly to participants of unfunded plans from Company assets, as well as expected Company contributions to funded plans of $8,888. Expected contributions are dependent on many variables, including the variability of the market value of the assets as compared to the obligation and other market or regulatory conditions. Accordingly, actual funding may differ greatly from current estimates.  

  The following table provides the pension benefits expected to be paid to participants, which include payments funded from the Company s assets, as discussed above, as well as payments paid from plan assets:  

Defined Contribution Plans  

  The Company s 401(k) and profit sharing plan covers substantially all domestic employees of the Company and its participating subsidiaries, other than those employees covered by a union retirement plan. The Plan provides that participants may voluntarily contribute a percentage of their compensation and the Company will make a matching contribution equal to 100% of the first 3% of each participant s contributions. Company contributions in excess of the matching contribution are contingent upon realization of profits of the Company and its participating subsidiaries, unless the Board of Directors decides otherwise. The expense associated with the plan for fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004 was $5,392, $5,297 and $5,781, respectively.  

  The
    Company and its subsidiaries also participate in defined contribution pension
    plans primarily for the benefit of certain foreign employees. The expense
    associated with these plans was $5,445, $4,266 and $2,165 for fiscal years
    2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS  

  Certain facilities of the Company are involved in environmental proceedings. The most significant matter pertains to the Company s subsidiary, Gelman Sciences Inc. ( Gelman ), which constitutes the majority of the $19,733 and $24,535 of accruals in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets at July 31, 2006, and July 31, 2005, respectively. The Company recorded charges of $925 and $2,077 in fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to environmental matters. The increases recorded to the environmental liabilities represent management s best estimate of the cost to be incurred to perform remediation. The estimates are based upon the feasibility of the use of certain remediation technologies and processes as well as the facts known to management at the time the estimates are made. (Refer to the Accounting Policies and Related Matters - Presentation and Use of
Estimates note).  

  Nearly ten years prior to the Company s acquisition of Gelman in February 1997, an action was filed in the Circuit Court for Washtenaw County, Michigan ( Court ) by the State of Michigan ( State ) seeking to compel Gelman to investigate and remediate contamination near Gelman s Ann Arbor facility and requested reimbursement of costs the State had expended in investigating the contamination, which the State alleged was caused by Gelman s disposal of waste water from its manufacturing process. Pursuant to a consent judgment entered into by Gelman and the State in October 1992 (amended September 1996 and October 1999), which resolved that litigation, Gelman is remediating the contamination without admitting wrongdoing. In February 2000, the State Assistant Attorney General filed a Motion to Enforce Consent Judgment in the Court seeking approximately $4,900
in stipulated penalties for the alleged violations of the consent judgment and additional injunctive relief. Gelman disputed these assertions. Following an evidentiary hearing in July 2000, the Court took the matter of penalties  under advisement.  The Court issued a Remediation Enforcement Order (the  REO ) requiring Gelman to submit and implement a detailed plan that will reduce the contamination to acceptable levels within five years. Gelman s plan has been approved by both the Court and the State. Although Gelman has met monthly milestones established under the plan and although contaminant concentrations have been significantly reduced, groundwater concentrations remain above acceptable levels in much of the affected area. The Court, however, concluded that Gelman was in compliance with the terms of the REO in a subsequent order issued in December 2004 (see below). Neither the State nor the Court has sought or suggested that Gelman should be penalized
based on the continued presence of groundwater contamination at the site.  

  68  

Back to Contents   

   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

In February 2004, the Court instructed Gelman to submit its Final Feasibility Study describing how it intends to address an area of groundwater contamination not addressed by the previously approved plan. Gelman has submitted its Feasibility Study as instructed. The State also submitted its plan for remediating this area of contamination to the Court. On December 17, 2004, the Court issued its Order and Opinion Regarding Remediation and Contamination of the Unit E. Aquifer (the  Unit E Order ). The Court adopted, with limited modifications, Gelman s remediation plan for this area of contamination. The Court also noted that Gelman was in compliance with the Court s previous REO. The State has not appealed the Unit E Order. Gelman is now in the process of implementing the requirements of the Order.   

  On May 12, 2004, the City of Ann Arbor (the  City ) filed a lawsuit against Gelman in Washtenaw County Circuit Court. The City s suit seeks damages, including the cost of replacing a municipal water supply well allegedly affected by the 1,4-dioxane groundwater contamination, as well as injunctive relief in the form of an order requiring Gelman to remediate the soil and groundwater beneath the City. The contaminant levels allegedly detected in the municipal well at issue, however, are well below applicable cleanup standards and the Gelman will vigorously defend against the claim.  

  By Order dated July 19, 2005, the Court granted Gelman s motion for partial summary disposition, in part, dismissing two of the City s three common law claims.   

  In December 2005, Gelman filed two motions for partial summary disposition seeking dismissal of the City s claims for injunctive relief and the majority of its monetary claims. The City filed a motion for summary disposition with regard to Gelman s liability under state statute. Rather than hear the motions, the Court ordered the parties into settlement facilitation. The facilitation period was recently extended to allow the parties to continue these settlement negotiations. Gelman is currently in negotiations with the City on the terms of the proposed settlement. If a settlement is not reached, the trial in this matter has been rescheduled to late fall 2006.  

  On August 10, 2005, the City filed a lawsuit against Gelman under the Federal Superfund Statute ( CERCLA ) for recovery of the City s alleged response costs, including well replacement costs. The City is seeking in this matter essentially the same relief it is seeking in the above-described state court action. In October 2005, Gelman filed a Motion for Stay, seeking to stay these federal proceedings pending resolution of the parallel state court action. The City subsequently filed a motion for summary judgment regarding Gelman s liability under CERCLA. The parties have agreed to include this matter in the settlement facilitation ordered by the state court and to stay this matter pending the outcome of the facilitation process. The parties have been informed that the Court will place this action on  administrative leave  without prejudice to the City s
right to restart the litigation if the matter is not resolved through the facilitation process described above.  

  A local resident and the City filed petitions for a contested case on November 26, 2005 and November 30, 2005, respectively. The petitions challenge various aspects of the discharge permit issued to Gelman by the State on September 30, 2005. The petitions commence an administrative adjudicative hearing, which can result in changes to the discharge permit. Company management does not believe there is substantive merit to the claims made in either petition. The Administrative Law Judge has consolidated both petitions into one proceeding. The Administrative Law Judge has also stayed this proceeding to allow the City and Gelman to attempt to resolve this matter through the facilitative process described above. No damages are being sought in this proceeding.  

  On June 25, 2004, the Company was sued in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan by a private plaintiff in connection with the groundwater contamination. The complaint seeks both money damages and injunctive relief requiring remediation of the contamination. The plaintiff also seeks to represent a larger class of property owners and residents who the plaintiff claims are affected by the groundwater contamination. On August 25, 2004, the Company filed a motion for summary judgment seeking to dismiss the plaintiff s claims. In response, plaintiff s counsel sought and was granted permission to amend the complaint. An amended complaint was filed on November 17, 2004, which added seven plaintiffs. The Company renewed its motion for summary judgment on December 27, 2004, asserting various grounds for dismissing the complaint as to each plaintiff. As
ordered by the Court, the Company withdrew its motion to allow the plaintiff an opportunity to further amend their complaint and conduct limited discovery. The plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint on March 9, 2005, adding two claims under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ). Discovery on the specific issues related to the seven plaintiffs was completed, and on October 17, 2005, the Company renewed, for a third time, its motion for summary judgment, asserting that none of the plaintiffs had established claims under any of the counts alleged, including RCRA. By order dated January 30, 2006, the Court granted the Company s motion and dismissed the entire case. The period for filing an appeal by right has expired.  
  69  

Back to Contents   

   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

In the opinion of management, the Company is in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and its accruals for environmental remediation are adequate at this time. Because regulatory standards under environmental laws are becoming increasingly stringent, there can be no assurance that future developments, additional information and experience gained will not cause the Company to incur material environmental liabilities or costs beyond those accrued in its consolidated financial statements.  

  The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to certain other legal actions that arise in the normal course of business. It is management s opinion that these other actions will not have a material effect on the Company s financial position.  

  The Company warrants its products against defect in design, materials and workmanship over various time periods. Warranty costs are recorded based upon experience. The warranty accrual as of July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005 is immaterial to the financial position of the Company as is the change in the accrual for fiscal year 2006 to the Company s consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position.  

  As of July 31, 2006, the Company had performance bonds outstanding relating primarily to its long-term contracts with governmental agencies of approximately $78,858.  

  The Company and its subsidiaries lease office and warehouse space, automobiles, computers and office equipment. Rent expense for all operating leases amounted to approximately $24,835 in 2006, $24,103 in 2005 and $22,870 in 2004. Future minimum rental commitments at July 31, 2006, for all non-cancelable operating leases with initial terms exceeding one year are $22,333 in 2007; $13,357 in 2008; $7,778 in 2009; $3,701 in 2010; $1,391 in 2011 and $5,131 thereafter.  

  The Company and its subsidiaries have various non-cancelable purchase commitments for goods or services with various vendors that have terms in excess of one year. Future purchase commitments at July 31, 2006, for the aforementioned purchase commitments are $25,391 in 2007; $18,043 in 2008; $696 in 2009; $451 in 2010 and $1,256 in 2011.  

  The Company has employment agreements with its executive officers, which vary in length from one to two years. Such agreements, which have been revised from time to time, provide for minimum salary levels, adjusted annually for cost-of-living changes, as well as for incentive bonuses that are payable if specified management goals are attained as discussed in the Incentive Compensation Plan note. The aggregate commitment for future salaries at July 31, 2006, excluding bonuses, was approximately $10,612.  

  COMMON STOCK  

  Shareholder Rights Plan  

  In 1989, the Board of Directors adopted, and the Company s shareholders approved, a Shareholder Rights Plan. Under the Plan, as amended on April 20, 1999, one right is attached to each outstanding share of the Company s common stock. Each right, when it becomes exercisable, will entitle the registered holder to purchase one share of the Company s common stock at an initial exercise price of $80 per share, subject to adjustment in certain events. The rights will become exercisable and will trade separately from the common stock (1) ten days after any person or group acquires 20% or more of the Company s outstanding common stock (an Acquiring Person), or (2) ten business days after any person or group commences or announces a tender offer for 20% or more of the outstanding common stock. If any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, each holder of a right, other
than rights owned by the Acquiring Person, would thereafter be entitled, upon exercise of the right at the exercise price, to receive a number of shares of common stock of the Company having a market value at that time of twice the exercise price of the right. Alternatively, the Board of Directors could exchange the rights not owned by the Acquiring Person for common stock at an exchange ratio of one share of common stock per right. In addition, if the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination, or 50% or more of its consolidated assets or earning power are sold, each holder of a right would thereafter be entitled, upon exercise of the right at the exercise price, to receive a number of shares of the most powerful voting capital stock of the acquiring company, which at the time of the business combination or sale had a market value of twice the exercise price of the right.  

  70  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

  The rights will expire on December 1, 2009, unless earlier redeemed. The rights are redeemable by the Board of Directors for one-third of a cent per right at any time until a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person.  

  Stock Repurchase Programs  

  On October 17, 2003, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the expenditure of up to $200,000 to repurchase shares of the Company s common stock. On October 14, 2004, the Board authorized the additional expenditure of up to another $200,000 for the repurchase of the Company s common stock. The Company s shares may be purchased over time, as market and business conditions warrant. There is no time restriction on these authorizations. In fiscal year 2004, the Company purchased 3,099 shares at an aggregate cost of $75,000 with an average price per share of $24.20. In fiscal year 2005, the Company purchased 2,435 shares at an aggregate cost of $64,246 with an average price per share of $26.38. In fiscal year 2006, the Company purchased 3,556 shares at an aggregate cost of $100,727 with an average price per share of $28.33. Therefore, $160,027 remains to be expended
under the current stock repurchase program. Repurchased shares are held in treasury for use in connection with the Company s stock plans and for general corporate purposes.   

  INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN  

  The plan provides additional compensation to officers and key employees of the Company and its subsidiaries based upon the achievement of specified management goals. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors establishes the goals on which the Company s executive officers are compensated, and management establishes the goals for other covered employees. The aggregate amounts charged to expense in connection with the plan were $16,082, $10,898 and $16,377 for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  

  The Company has elected to report comprehensive income in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity. The changes in the components of other comprehensive income are as follows:  

71  

Back to Contents   

   PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

(a)     

The unrealized (losses) gains on available-for-sale securities, net of related taxes, consisted of the following:       

SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIES  

  Financial information on the business segments identified as reporting segments in accordance with the provision of SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information  follows. In fiscal year 2006, certain research and development costs previously managed as a Corporate function were integrated into the Life Sciences and Industrial segments in the Western Hemisphere as part of the Company s reorganization efforts.  

  Life Sciences:  

  Medical: includes sales of disposable blood filtration and cardiovascular filtration products primarily to blood centers and hospitals. In addition, Medical includes products used in research laboratories in drug discovery, gene manipulation and proteomics applications.   

  BioPharmaceuticals: includes sales of separation systems and disposable filters primarily to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for use by them in their development and commercialization of synthetically and organically derived drugs and vaccines.   

  As part of the restructuring plan announced in the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, the Biosciences division results, which were previously part of the BioPharmaceuticals segment, have been recorded within the Medical segment. Life Sciences segment information for fiscal year 2004 has been restated for this change.  

  Industrial:  

  General Industrial: the Company s most diverse sub-segment, includes sales of filters, coalescers and integrated separation systems for hydraulic, fuel and lubrication systems on mechanical equipment across many industries, as well as to producers of energy (i.e., oil, gas, electricity and chemicals), food and beverages, municipal and industrial water and paper.   

  Aerospace: includes sales of filtration and fluid monitoring equipment to the aerospace industry for use on commercial and military aircraft, including hydraulic, lubrication, and fuel filters, coalescers to remove water from fuel, filters to remove viruses from aircraft cabin air and filter monitoring systems. The Company s products and systems are also used in ships and land-based military vehicles.  

  Microelectronics: includes sales of disposable filtration products to the semiconductor, data storage, fiber optic, advanced display and materials markets.   

  The above segments benefit from shared resources such that certain assets and activities are shared and are not specifically identifiable to a particular segment. Accounts receivable and inventory are most specifically identifiable to the segments, whereas certain operating assets, principally property, plant and equipment, are shared. Similarly, certain expenses incurred by those entities for various support functions such as human resources, information services, finance, facility costs (including depreciation expense) and other overhead costs are allocated to the segments using various methodologies based upon the nature of the expense. As such, this segment information includes extensive allocation of costs, which are judgmental in nature.  

  Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, investments and retirement benefit assets, income taxes, goodwill and intangible assets and headquarters assets, all of which are managed at the Corporate level, are included in Corporate assets. Expenses associated with the headquarters operations, amortization of intangible assets, interest expense, net, the provision for income taxes, as well as restructuring and other charges are currently excluded from the measurement and evaluation of the profitability of the Company s reportable segments.  

72  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

  In fiscal year 2005, the Company undertook to reorganize its business structure into three underlying vertically integrated business groups: Life Sciences, comprising Medical and BioPharmaceuticals; Aeropower, comprising Aerospace and the Machinery   Equipment portion of the current General Industrial marketplace; and Process Technologies, comprising General Industrial s Food   Beverage, Fuels   Chemicals, Power Generation, Municipal Water and Microelectronics markets. In fiscal year 2006, management began a further integration of the Industrial groups (Aeropower and Process Technologies) to form one vertically integrated Industrial business group. This reorganization has been substantially completed and the Company s new structure consists of two vertically integrated business groups: Life Sciences and Industrial. Each business group has integrated support
functions and responsibility for global manufacturing, sales and marketing and research and development functions to enable the Company to better meet its customers  needs and in order to achieve greater efficiencies and profit growth. This revised organizational structure is in contrast to the former matrix organizational structure where, within each geography, these functions supported the market-based part of the matrix on a shared basis (as opposed to being directly vertically integrated into these business groups).  

73  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

   MARKET SEGMENT INFORMATION   

74  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

GEOGRAPHIES   

(a)    

Included in restructuring and other charges, net, for the purposes of evaluation of segment and geographic profitability are other adjustments of $1,667 and $837, recorded in cost of sales in the years ending July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively; $898 and $837 in the years ended July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively, related to a one-time purchase accounting adjustment to record, at market value, inventory acquired from BioSepra. This resulted in a $2,431 increase in acquired inventories, in accordance with SFAS No. 141, in the opening balance sheet and an increase in cost of sales concurrent with the sale of a portion of the underlying inventory. The adjustment is excluded from operating profit as management considers it non-recurring in nature because, although the Company acquired the manufacturing operations of BioSepra, this adjustment was
required by SFAS 141 as an elimination of the manufacturing profit in inventory acquired from BioSepra and subsequently sold. Furthermore, restructuring and other charges, net, for the purpose of segment and geographic profitability includes $769 in the year ended July 31, 2006 primarily comprised of incremental depreciation from the now planned early retirement of certain fixed assets (recorded in conjunction with the Company s facilities rationalization initiatives) in accordance with SFAS No. 144.       

75  

Back to Contents   

PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

Sales by the Company s U.S. operations to unaffiliated customers totaled approximately $687,000, $648,000 and $632,000 in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Included therein are export sales of approximately $65,000, $61,000 and $56,000 in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Sales by the Company s subsidiaries in Germany amounted to approximately $192,000, $199,000 and $201,000 in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Sales by the Company s subsidiary in Japan amounted to approximately $207,000, $204,000 and $179,000 in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company considers its foreign operations to be of major importance to its future growth prospects. The risks related to the Company s foreign operations include the local political and regulatory developments as well as the regional economic climate.  

  Intercompany sales between geographic areas are generally priced on the basis of a markup of manufacturing costs to achieve an appropriate sharing of the profit between the parties.  

76  

Back to Contents   

     PALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE II   

   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS   

   (In thousands)   

77  

<EX-10.7>
 4
 b415205_ex10-7.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.7

EXHIBIT 10.7

[Senior Vice President
                                                               Split Bonus]

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

         EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated September 12, 2005 between PALL CORPORATION,
a New York corporation (the "Company") and Roberto Perez ("Executive").

         In consideration of the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth, the
parties hereto agree as follows:

SS 1. EMPLOYMENT AND TERM

         The Company hereby employs Executive, and Executive hereby agrees to
serve, as an executive employee of the Company with the duties set forth in
ss.2, for a term (hereafter called The "Term of Employment") beginning September
12, 2005 (the "Term Commencement Date") and ending, unless sooner terminated
under ss.4, on the effective date specified in a notice of termination given by
either party to the other except that such effective date shall not be earlier
than the second anniversary of the date on which such notice is given.

SS 2. DUTIES

         (a) Executive agrees that during the Term of Employment he will hold
such offices or positions with the Company, and perform such duties and
assignments relating to the business of the Company, as the Chief Executive
Officer of the Company shall direct except that Executive shall not be required
to hold any office or position or to perform any duties or assignment
inconsistent with his experience and qualifications.

         (b) If the Chief Executive Officer of the Company so directs, Executive
shall serve as an officer of one or more subsidiaries of the Company (provided
that the duties of such office are not inconsistent with Executive's experience
and qualifications) and part or all of the compensation to which Executive is
entitled hereunder may be paid by such subsidiary or subsidiaries. However, such
employment and/or payment of Executive by a subsidiary or subsidiaries shall not
relieve the Company from any of its obligations under this Agreement except to
the extent of payments actually made to Executive by a subsidiary.

         (c) During the Term of Employment Executive shall, except during
customary vacation periods and periods of illness, devote substantially all of
his business time and attention to the performance of his duties hereunder and
to the business and affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries and to promoting
the best interests of the Company and its subsidiaries and he shall not, either
during or outside of such normal business hours, engage in any activity inimical
to such best interests.

SS 3. COMPENSATION DURING TERM OF EMPLOYMENT

         (a) Base Salary. With respect to the period beginning on the Term
Commencement Date and ending on the 31st day of July next following the Term
Commencement Date, the Company shall pay Executive a Base Salary (in addition to
the compensation provided for elsewhere in this Agreement) at the rate of
$318,000 per annum (hereinafter called the "original Base Salary"). With respect
to each Contract Year beginning with the Contract Year which starts on the first
day of August next following the Term Commencement Date, the Company shall pay
Executive a Base Salary at such rate as the Chief Executive Officer may
determine but not less than the Original base Salary adjusted as follows: The
Term "Contract Year" as used herein means the period from August 1 of each year
through July 31 of the following year. The term "Consumer Price Index" as herein
used means the "Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers" compiled and
published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of
Labor for "New York - Northern N.J. - Long Island, NY-NJ-CT-PA". For each
Contract Year during the Term of Employment beginning with the Contract Year
which starts on the first day of August next following the Term Commencement
Date, the minimum compensation payable to Executive under this ss.3(a)
(hereinafter called the "Minimum Base Salary") shall be determined by increasing
(or decreasing) the Original Base Salary by the percentage increase (or
decrease) of the Consumer Price Index for the month of June immediately
preceding the start of the Contract Year in question over (or below) the
Consumer Price Index for the month of June next preceding the Term Commencement
Date. [To illustrate the operation of the foregoing provisions of the paragraph:
In an Employment Agreement as to which the Term Commencement Date was August 1,
2004, the executive's base salary for the Contract Year August 1, 2005 through
July 31, 2006 would be not less that the Original Base Salary under that
Employment Agreement adjusted by the percentage increase (or decrease) of the
Consumer price Index for June 2005 over (or below) said Index for June 2004].
Further adjustment in the Minimum Base Salary shall be made for each ensuing
Contract Year, in each case (i) using the Consumer Price Index for the month of
June next preceding the Term Commencement Date as the base except as provided in
the immediately following paragraph hereof and (ii) applying the percentage
increase (or decrease) in the Consumer Price Index since said base month to the
Original Base Salary to determine the Minimum Base Salary. The Base Salary shall
be paid in such periodic installments as the Company may determine but not less
often than monthly.

         If with respect to any Contract Year (including the Contract Year
beginning on the first day of August next following the Term Commencement Date)
the Chief Executive Officer fixes the Base Salary at an amount higher than the
Minimum Base Salary, then (unless the order fixing such higher Base Salary
provides otherwise), for the purpose of determining the Minimum Base Salary for
subsequent Contract Years: (i) the amount of the higher Base Salary so fixed
shall be deemed substituted for the Original Base Salary wherever the Original
Base Salary is referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph hereof, and
(ii) the base month for determining the Consumer Price Index adjustment shall be
June of the calendar year in which the Contract Year to which such higher Base
Salary is applicable begins. [To illustrate the operation of the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph: If the Chief Executive Officer were to fix a Base
Salary for a Contract Year beginning, say, August 1, 2006 which is higher than
the Minimum Base Salary for the Contract Year, then June 2006 would become the
base month for the purpose of making the Consumer Price Index adjustment to
determine the Minimum Base Salary for subsequent Contract Years unless and until
the Chief Executive Officer were to fix a Base Salary higher than the Minimum
Base Salary for a subsequent Contract Year.]

2

(b) Bonus Compensation.

                  (i) Plan Bonus. With respect to each Fiscal Year of the
         Company falling in whole or in part within the Term of Employment
         beginning with the Fiscal Year ending on the Saturday nearest to the
         31st day of the month of July next following the Term Commencement
         Date, Executive shall be entitled to receive a Bonus pursuant to this
         Agreement in an amount determined in accordance with, and subject to
         all of the terms of, the Pall Corporation Executive Incentive Bonus
         Plan adopted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of
         the Company on October 16, 2003, approved by shareholders at the annual
         meeting of shareholders on November 19, 2003, effective for the Fiscal
         Year beginning August 3, 2003, a copy of which is annexed hereto and
         incorporated herein by reference (the "Bonus Plan"). Words and terms
         used herein with initial capital letters and not defined herein are
         used herein as defined in the Bonus Plan. For purposes of determining
         the amount of the Bonus payable to Executive for any Fiscal Year under
         the Bonus Plan (the "Plan Bonus"), Executive's Target Bonus Percentage
         shall be 42% of his Base Salary for such Fiscal Year.

                  (ii) Business Segment Bonus. Inasmuch as Executive's services
         for the company relate primarily to the operations of a subsidiary, a
         division or other segment of the overall operations of the Company and
         its subsidiaries (a "Business Segment"), Executive shall be considered
         for additional bonus compensation for each fiscal year based on the
         results of operations of such Business Segment for such fiscal year.
         The amount of such additional bonus compensation, if any, shall be
         determined by the Chief Executive Officer in his sole discretion but in
         no event shall such additional bonus compensation exceed 63% of
         Executive's Base Salary.

                  (iii) Payment of Bonus Compensation. Executive's Bonus
         Compensation (which term as used herein includes both the Plan Bonus
         and the Business Segment Bonus, if any) shall be paid in accordance
         with ss.5 of the Bonus Plan. With respect to any Fiscal Year which
         falls in part but not in whole within the Term of Employment, the pro
         rata portion of the Bonus Compensation to which Executive is entitled
         under this ss.3(b) shall be determined in accordance with ss.3(c) of
         the Bonus Plan.

         (c) Fringe Benefits and Perquisites. During the Term of Employment,
Executive shall enjoy the customary perquisites of office, including, but not
limited to, office space and furnishings, secretarial services, expense
reimbursements and any similar emoluments customarily afforded to senior
executive officers of the Company at the same level as Executive. Executive
shall also be entitled to receive or participate in all "fringe benefits" and
employee benefit plans provided or made available by the Company to its
executives or management personnel generally (such as, but not limited to, group
hospitalization, medical, life and disability insurance, and pension,
retirement, profit-sharing and stock option or purchase plans), at such time and
on such terms and conditions as each such plan provides.

         (d) Vacations. Executive shall be entitled each year to a vacation or
vacations in accordance with the policies of the Company as determined by the
Board or by an authorized senior officer of the Company from time to time. The
Company shall not pay Executive any additional compensation for any vacation
time not used by executive.

3

SS 4. TERMINATION BY REASON OF DISABILITY, DEATH, RETIREMENT OR CHANGE IN
CONTROL

         (a) Disability or Death. If, during the Term of Employment, Executive,
by reason of physical or mental disability, is incapable of performing his
principal duties hereunder for an aggregate of 130 working days out of any
period of twelve consecutive months, the Company at its option may terminate the
Term of Employment effective immediately by notice to Executive given within 90
days after the end of such twelve-month period. If Executive shall die during
the Term of Employment or if the Company terminates the Term of Employment
pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence by reason of Executive's
disability, the Company shall pay to Executive, or to Executive's legal
representatives, or in accordance with a direction given by Executive to the
Company in writing, the following: (i) Executive's Base Salary to the end of the
month in which such death or termination for disability occurs and Executive's
Bonus Compensation prorated to said last day of the month and (ii) for each
month in the period from the end of the month in which such death or termination
for disability occurs until the earlier of (x) the first anniversary of the date
of death or termination and (y) the date on which the Term of Employment would
have ended but for such death or termination for disability, monthly payments of
(I) an amount equal to 1/12th of one-half of the annual Base Salary in effect
for Executive immediately prior to the date on which Executive's death or
termination for disability occurs plus (II) an amount equal to 1/12th of
one-half of the maximum Bonus Compensation that Executive could receive with
respect to each of such months based on (A) the Target Bonus Percentage
specified in ss.3(b)(i) of this Agreement (as amended to the date on which
Executive's death or disability occurs) and (B) the maximum percentage of Base
Salary specified in ss.3(b)(ii) of this Agreement (as so amended).

         (b) Retirement. (i) The Term of Employment shall end automatically,
without action by either party, on Executive's 65th birthday unless, prior to
such birthday, Executive and the Company have agreed in writing that the Term of
Employment shall continue past such 65th birthday. In that event, unless the
parties have agreed otherwise, the Term of Employment shall be automatically
renewed and extended each year, as of Executive's birthday, for an additional
one-year term, unless either party has given a Non-Renewal Notice. A Non-Renewal
Notice shall be effective as of Executive's ensuing birthday only if given not
less than 60 days before such birthday, and shall state that the party giving
such notice elects that this Agreement shall not automatically renew itself
further, with the result that the Term of Employment shall end on Executive's
ensuing birthday. (ii) If the Term of Employment ends pursuant to this paragraph
by reason of a notice given by either party as herein permitted or automatically
at age 65 or any subsequent birthday, the Company shall pay to Executive, or to
another payee specified by Executive to the company in writing, Executive's Base
Salary and Bonus Compensation prorated to the date on which the Term of
Employment ends, (iii) Anything hereinabove to the contrary notwithstanding, if
any provision of this paragraph violates federal or applicable state law
relating to discrimination on account of age, such provision shall be deemed
modified or suspended to the extent necessary to eliminate such violation of
law. If at a later date, by reason of changed circumstances or otherwise, the
enforcement of such provision as set forth herein would no longer constitute a
violation of law, then it shall be enforced in accordance with its terms as set
forth herein.

4

(c) Change in Control. In the event of a Change in Control (as defined
in the Bonus Plan), Executive shall have the right to terminate the Term of
Employment, by notice to the Company given at any time after such Change in
Control, effective on the date specified in such notice, which date shall not be
more than (but can be less than) one year after the giving of such notice.

SS 5. COVENANT NOT TO COMPETE

         For a period of eighteen months after the end of the Term of Employment
if the Term of Employment is terminated by notice to the Company given by
Executive under ss.1 or ss.4 hereof, or for a period of twelve months after the
end of the Term of Employment if the Term of Employment is terminated by notice
to Executive given by the Company under ss.1 or ss.4 hereof or terminates under
ss.4 by reason of Executive attaining the age of 65, Executive shall not render
services to any corporation, individual or other entity engaged in any activity,
or himself engage directly or indirectly in any activity, which is competitive
to any material extent with the business of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries, provided, however, that if the Company terminates under ss.1
following a Change in Control (as defined in ss.4(c)), the foregoing covenant
not to compete shall not apply.

SS 6. COMPANY'S RIGHT TO INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

         Executive acknowledges that his services to the Company are of a unique
character, which gives them a peculiar value to the Company, the loss of which
cannot be reasonably or adequately compensated in damages in an action at law,
and that therefore, in addition to any other remedy which the Company may have
at law or in equity, the company shall be entitled to injunctive relief for a
breach of this agreement by Executive.

SS 7. INVENTIONS AND PATENTS

         All inventions, ideas, concepts, processes, discoveries, improvements
and trademarks (hereinafter collectively referred to as intangible rights),
whether patentable or registrable or not, which are conceived, made, invented or
suggested either by Executive alone or by Executive in collaboration with others
during the Term of Employment, and whether or not during regular working hours,
shall be disclosed to the Company and shall be the sole and exclusive property
of the Company. If the Company deems that any of such intangible rights are
patentable or otherwise registrable under any federal, state or foreign law,
Executive, at the expense of the Company, shall execute all documents and do all
things necessary or proper to obtain patents and/or registrations and to vest
the Company with full title thereto.

SS 8. TRADE SECRETS AND CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

         Executive shall not, either directly or indirectly, except as required
in the course of his employment by the Company, disclose or use at any time,
whether during or subsequent to the Term of Employment, any information of a
proprietary nature owned by the Company, including but not limited to, records,
data, formulae, documents, specifications, inventions, processes, methods and
intangible rights which are acquired by him in the performance of his duties for
the Company and which are of a confidential information or trade-secret nature.
All records, files, drawings, documents, equipment and the like, relating to the
Company's business, which Executive shall prepare, use, construct or observe,
shall be and remain the Company's sole property. Upon the termination of his
employment or at any time prior thereto upon request by the Company, Executive
shall return to the possession of the Company any materials or copies thereof
involving any confidential information or trade secrets and shall not take any
material or copies thereof from the possession of the Company.

5

SS 9. MERGERS AND CONSOLIDATIONS; ASSIGNABILITY

         In the event that the Company, or any entity resulting from any merger
or consolidation referred to in this ss.9 or which shall be a purchaser or
transferee so referred to, shall at any time be merged or consolidated into or
with any other entity or entities, or in the event that substantially all of the
assets of the Company or any such entity shall be sold or otherwise transferred
to another entity, the provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and
shall inure to the benefit of the continuing entity in or the entity resulting
from such merger or consolidation or the entity to which such assets shall be
sold or transferred. Except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence of
this ss.9, this Agreement shall not be assignable by the Company or by any
entity referred to in such immediately preceding sentence. This Agreement shall
not be assignable by Executive, but in the event of his death it shall be
binding upon and inure to the benefit of his legal representatives to the extent
required to the benefit of his legal representatives to the extent required to
effectuate the terms hereof.

SS 10. CAPTIONS

         The captions in this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof,
are merely for the purpose of reference and shall have no force or effect for
any purpose whatsoever, including the construction of the provisions of this
Agreement, and if any caption is inconsistent with any provisions of this
Agreement, said provisions shall govern.

SS 11. CHOICE OF LAW

         This Agreement is made in, and shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of, the State of New York.

SS 12. ENTIRE CONTRACT

         This instrument contains the entire agreement of the parties on the
subject matter hereof except that the rights of the Company hereunder shall be
deemed to be in addition to and not in substitution for its rights under the
Company's standard printed form of "Employee's Secrecy and Invention Agreement"
or "Employee Agreement" if heretofore or hereafter entered into between the
parties hereto so that the making of this Agreement shall not be construed as
depriving the Company of any of its rights or remedies under any such Secrecy
and Invention Agreement or Employee Agreement. This Agreement may not be changed
orally, but only by an agreement in writing signed by the party against whom
enforcement of any waiver, change, modification, extension or discharge is
sought.

6

SS.13.     NOTICES

         All notices given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be sent by
registered or certified mail, overnight courier service such as Federal Express
or UPS Next Day Air or delivered by hand, and, if intended for the Company,
shall be addressed to it (if sent by mail) or delivered to it (if delivered by
hand) at its principal office for the attention of the corporate Secretary of
the Company, or at such other address and for the attention of such other person
of which the Company shall have given notice to Executive in the manner herein
provided, and, if intended for Executive, shall be delivered to him personally
or shall be addressed to him (if sent by mail or overnight courier service) at
his most recent residence address shown in the Company's employment records or
at such other address or to such designee of which Executive shall have given
notice to the Company in the manner herein provided. Each such notice shall be
deemed to be given on the date of mailing thereof or delivery to the overnight
courier service or, if delivered personally, on the date so delivered.

SS 14. TERMINATION OF EXISTING AGREEMENT

         With the exception of the letter dated November 24, 2004, signed by
Steve Haas and the Executive, which is annexed hereto, the terms of which letter
remain in full force and effect, and to the extent they provide benefits and
compensation above what is provided in this Agreement will supercede this
Agreement, any employment agreement between the parties hereto which is in
effect on the date hereof is hereby terminated and replaced and superseded by
this Agreement, effective on the Term Commencement Date. All payments, of Base
Salary or otherwise, made by the Company under any such existing agreement with
respect to any period commencing on or after the Term Commencement Date shall be
credited against the corresponding payment obligations of the Company under this
Agreement with respect to such period.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as
of the day and year first above written.

PALL CORPORATION

                                     By: /s/ ERIC KRASNOFF
                                             --------------------------------
                                             Name: Eric Krasnoff
                                             Title: Chief Executive Officer

EXECUTIVE

                                     /s/ ROBERTO PEREZ
                                         ------------------------------------
                                         Roberto Perez

7

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.15>
 5
 b415205_ex10-15.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.15

EXHIBIT 10.15

PALL CORPORATION

                       2004 EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE BONUS PLAN

                                      -----

1. PURPOSE

         This document sets forth the Pall Corporation 2004 Executive Incentive
Bonus Plan as adopted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on
October 16, 2003 effective for the fiscal year beginning August 3, 2003 and
subsequent fiscal years, approved by shareholders at the Annual Meeting on
November 19, 2003 and amended by the Board of Directors, acting by its
Compensation Committee, on July 19, 2005 and January 18, 2006.

         The purpose of the Plan is to encourage greater focus on performance
among the key executives of the Corporation by relating a significant portion of
their total compensation to the achievement of annual financial objectives.

2. CERTAIN DEFINITIONS

         As used herein with initial capital letters, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:

         "AVERAGE EQUITY" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the average of
stockholders' equity as shown on the fiscal year-end consolidated balance sheet
of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as of the end of such Fiscal Year and as
of the end of the immediately preceding Fiscal Year except that the amounts
shown on said balance sheets as "Accumulated other comprehensive" income or
loss, as the case may be, shall be disregarded.

         "BASE SALARY" shall mean, with respect to any Executive and for any
Fiscal Year, the annual rate of base salary in effect for the Executive as of
the first day of such year or, if later, as of the first day of the Executive's
Term of Employment, as determined under the Executive's Employment Agreement.

         "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" shall mean the Board of Directors of the
Corporation.

         "BONUS" shall mean the bonus payable to an Executive under this Plan
for any Fiscal Year.

         "CEO" shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.

         "CHANGE IN CONTROL" means the occurrence of any of the following:

         (a)      the "Distribution Date" as defined in Section 3 of the Rights
                  Agreement dated as of November 17, 1989 between the
                  Corporation and United States Trust Company of New York as
                  Rights Agent, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated
                  April 20, 1999, and as the same may have been further amended
                  or extended to the time in question or in any successor
                  agreement (the "Rights Agreement"); or

(b)      any event described in Section 11(a)(ii)(B) of the Rights
                  Agreement; or

         (c)      any event described in Section 13 of the Rights Agreement; or

         (d)      the date on which the number of duly elected and qualified
                  directors of the Corporation who were not either elected by
                  the Board of Directors or nominated by the Board of Directors
                  or its Nominating Committee for election by the shareholders
                  shall equal or exceed one-third of the total number of
                  directors of the Corporation as fixed by its by-laws;

provided, however, that no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred,
and no rights arising upon a Change in Control as provided in Section 6 shall
exist, to the extent that the Board of Directors so determines by resolution
adopted prior to the Change in Control.

         "CODE" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

         "COMMITTEE" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors.

         "CORPORATION" shall mean Pall Corporation.

         "COVERED EXECUTIVE" shall mean, with respect to any Fiscal Year, each
individual who is a "Covered Employee" of the Corporation for such year for the
purpose of section 162(m) of the Code.

         "EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT" shall mean, with respect to any executive
employee of the Corporation, an employment agreement between the Corporation and
such employee which provides that the employee shall be eligible to receive
annual bonuses under this Plan.

         "EXECUTIVE" shall mean an executive employee of the Corporation with
whom the Corporation has entered into an Employment Agreement.

         "FISCAL YEAR" shall mean the fiscal year of the Corporation ending on
July 31, 2004, and each subsequent fiscal year of the Corporation.

         "MAXIMUM R.O.E. TARGET" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the Return on
Equity that must be achieved or exceeded in order for the Performance Percentage
for the year to equal 100%, as determined by the Committee prior to the first
day of such year or within such period of time thereafter as may be permitted
under the regulations issued under ss.162(m) of the Code.

         "MINIMUM R.O.E. TARGET" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the Return on
Equity that must be exceeded in order for any Bonus to be paid to any Executive
for the year, as determined by the Committee prior to the first day of such year
or within such period of time thereafter as may be permitted under the
regulations issued under ss.162(m) of the Code.

2

"NET EARNINGS" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the after-tax
consolidated net earnings of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, either (i) as
certified by the Corporation's independent auditors for inclusion in the annual
report to shareholders ("Annual Report") for such year or (ii) as reported to
such auditors by the chief financial officer of the Corporation at a meeting of
the Corporation's Audit Committee, held prior to the date on which the
Corporation's annual report on Form 10-K for such year is filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, and accepted by the auditors at such meeting
(including any adjournment thereof) subject only to events occurring after that
meeting and prior to the auditors' written certification of the financial
statements for the year, but in either case adjusted so as to eliminate the
effects of (I) any decreases in or charges to earnings for (a) the translational
effect of foreign currency exchange rates, (b) any acquisitions, divestitures,
discontinuance of business operations, restructuring or any other special
charges, (c) the cumulative effect of any accounting changes, and (d) any
"extraordinary items" as determined under generally accepted accounting
principles, to the extent such decreases or charges referred to in clauses (a)
through (d) are separately disclosed in the Corporation's Annual Report for the
year and (II) any increase in earnings for the translational effect of foreign
currency exchange rates.

         "PLAN" shall mean the Pall Corporation Executive Incentive Bonus Plan,
as set forth herein and as amended from time to time.

         "RETURN ON EQUITY" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the percentage
determined by dividing the Net Earnings for the year by the Average Equity for
the year.

         "TARGET BONUS PERCENTAGE" shall mean, with respect to any Executive,
the target bonus percentage specified for such Executive in his or her
Employment Agreement.

3. DETERMINATION OF BONUS AMOUNTS

         For each Fiscal Year falling in whole or in part within an Executive's
Term of Employment, as defined in his or her Employment Agreement, the Executive
shall be entitled to receive a Bonus in an amount determined in accordance with
the provisions of this Section 3, subject, however, to the provisions of Section
4.

         (a) The amount of the Bonus payable to an Executive for each such
Fiscal Year shall be equal to (i) the Target Bonus Percentage of the Executive's
Base Salary for such year, multiplied by (ii) the Performance Percentage for
such year, as determined under (b) below.

         (b) The Performance Percentage for any Fiscal Year shall be determined
in accordance with the following provisions:

              (i) If the Return on Equity equals or exceeds the Maximum R.O.E.
         Target for the year, the Performance Percentage for the year shall be
         100%.

              (ii) If the Return on Equity equals or is less than the Minimum
         R.O.E. Target for the year, the Performance Percentage for the year
         shall be zero, and no Bonus shall be payable under the Plan for such
         year to any Executive.

3

(iii) Except as other provided in (iv) below, if the Return on
         Equity is less than the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the year but exceeds
         the Minimum R.O.E. Target for the year, the Performance Percentage for
         the year shall be equal to the quotient resulting from dividing (A) the
         excess of the Return on Equity for the year over the Minimum R.O.E.
         Target for the year, by (B) the excess of the Maximum R.O.E. Target for
         the year over the Minimum R.O.E. Target for the year.

              (iv) At the time it establishes the Minimum and Maximum R.O.E.
         Targets for any Fiscal Year beginning on or after August 3, 2003, the
         Committee may also (A) establish one or more R.O.E. targets (each, an
         "Intermediate R.O.E. Target") for such year that are greater than the
         Minimum R.O.E. Target but less than the Maximum R.O.E. Target for such
         year, and (B) determine the Performance Percentage that will apply if
         the Return on Equity exceeds the Minimum R.O.E. Target, or equals any
         of the Intermediate R.O.E. Targets established for such year. If one or
         more Intermediate R.O.E. Targets are established for any such Fiscal
         Year and the Return on Equity for such year exceeds the Minimum R.O.E
         Target or any Intermediate R.O.E Target established for the year (the
         "Achieved Target") but is less than the next highest Intermediate R.O.E
         Target established for the year (the "Next Highest Target"), the
         Performance Percentage for such year shall be equal to the Performance
         Percentage that would apply if the Return on Equity were equal to the
         Achieved Target, plus the percentage resulting from multiplying (1) the
         excess of the Performance Percentage that would apply if the Return on
         Equity were equal to the Next Highest Target, over the Performance
         Percentage that would apply if the Return on Equity were equal to the
         Achieved Target , by (2) the percentage resulting from dividing (x) the
         excess of the Return on Equity over the Achieved Target, by (y) the
         excess of the Next Highest Target over the Achieved Target. If the
         Return on Equity for the year exceeds the highest Intermediate R.O.E.
         Target for the year but is less than the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the
         year, the Performance Percentage for the year shall be determined in
         the manner described in the preceding sentence but for this purpose,
         the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the year shall be treated as the Next
         Highest Target for the year.

         (c) If an Executive's Term of Employment commences after the start of a
Fiscal Year, or ends prior to the close of a Fiscal Year, the amount of the
Bonus payable to the Executive for the Fiscal Year in which the Executive's Term
of Employment commences, or for the Fiscal Year in which the Executive's Term of
Employment ends, as determined in accordance with the other applicable
provisions of the Plan, shall be prorated on the basis of the number of days of
such Fiscal Year that fall within the Executive's Term of Employment; provided,
however, that (i) if an Executive's Term of Employment ends within 5 days prior
to the close of a Fiscal Year, there shall be no proration and the Executive
shall be entitled to receive the entire amount of the Bonus payable to the
Executive for such year, as determined in accordance with such other provisions,
and (ii) if the Executive's Term of Employment ends within 5 days following the
start of a Fiscal Year, the Executive shall not be entitled to receive any Bonus
with respect to such Fiscal Year.

4

4. ADJUSTMENT OF AND LIMITATION ON BONUS AMOUNTS

         The amount of the Bonus otherwise payable to an Executive for any
Fiscal Year in accordance with Section 3 shall be subject to the following
adjustments and limitation:

         (a) The Committee may, in its discretion, reduce the amount of the
Bonus otherwise payable to any Executive in accordance with Section 3, (i) to
reflect any decreases in or charges to earnings that were not taken into account
in determining Net Earnings for the year pursuant to clause (a), (b), (c) or (d)
contained in the definition of such term in Section 2, (ii) to reflect any
credits to earnings for extraordinary items of income or gain that were taken
into account in determining Net Earnings for the year, (iii) to reflect the
Committee's evaluation of the Executive's individual performance, or (iv) to
reflect any other events, circumstances or factors which the Committee believes
to be appropriate in determining the amount of the Bonus to be paid to the
Executive for the year.

         (b) The Committee may, in its discretion, increase the amount of the
Bonus otherwise payable to any Executive who is not a Covered Executive, as
determined under Section 3, to reflect the Committee's evaluation of the
Executive's individual performance, or to reflect such other circumstances or
factors as the Committee believes to be appropriate in determining the amount of
the Bonus to be paid to the Executive for the year. The Committee shall not have
any discretion to increase the amount of the Bonus payable to any Covered
Executive for the year, as determined under Section 3.

         (c) Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, the
amount of the Bonus otherwise payable to any Executive for any Fiscal Year
beginning on or after August 3, 2003, shall not exceed the lesser of (i) $2.0
million and (ii) 150% of the Executive's Base Salary for such Fiscal Year.

5. PAYMENT OF BONUSES

         The Bonus payable to an Executive for any Fiscal Year shall be paid in
accordance with the following provisions:

         (a) Except as otherwise provided in (b) or (c) below,

              (i) if the Executive is not a Covered Executive for such year, not
         less than 50% of the amount of the Executive's Bonus shall be paid to
         the Executive on such date following the close of such year, not later
         than the date on which the Corporation files its Form 10-K Annual
         Report with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as the Committee in
         its discretion shall determine (the first "Bonus Payment Date"), and
         any remaining amount of the Executive's Bonus shall be paid to the
         Executive by no later than January 15 next following the close of such
         year;

              (ii) if the Executive is a Covered Executive for such year, not
         less than 50% of the amount of the Executive's Bonus shall be paid to
         the Executive on the later of (x) the first Bonus Payment Date fixed by
         the Committee in accordance with ss.5(a)(i) above or (y) on the first
         business day following the date on which the Committee has certified in
         writing that all conditions for the payment of such Bonus to the
         Executive for such year have been satisfied, and any remaining amount
         of the Executive's Bonus shall be paid to the Executive by no later
         than January 15 next following the close of such year;

5

(iii) each amount payable to an Executive under (i) and (ii)
         above, reduced by the amount of all federal, state and local taxes
         required by law to be withheld therefrom, shall be paid to the
         Executive in the form of a single lump sum cash payment.

         (b) To the extent that an Executive has elected under the applicable
provisions of the Pall Corporation Management Stock Purchase Plan (the "MSPP")
to have any part of the Bonus payable to the Executive for any Fiscal Year paid
in the form of Restricted Units to be credited to the Executive's account under
the MSPP, no cash payments shall be made to the Executive pursuant to (a) above
with respect to the part of the Executive Bonus that is subject to such
election, and the obligation of the Corporation under this Plan with respect to
payment of such part of the Executive's Bonus shall be fully discharged upon the
crediting of Restricted Units to the Executive's account under the MSPP in
accordance with the applicable provisions of such Plan.

         (c) To the extent that an Executive has elected under the applicable
provisions of the Pall Corporation Profit-Sharing Plan (the "Profit-Sharing
Plan") to have any part of the Bonus payable to the Executive for any Fiscal
Year reduced, and to have an amount equal to such part of the Executive's Bonus
contributed to the Profit-Sharing Plan as a 401(k) Contribution on the
Executive's behalf, an amount equal to such part of the Executive's Bonus shall
be contributed to the Profit-Sharing Plan on behalf of the Executive, and
thereupon, the obligation of the Corporation under this Plan with respect to
payment of such part of the Executive's Bonus shall be fully discharged.
However, no such contribution shall be made to the extent it would cause any
limitation applicable under the 401(k) Plan to be exceeded.

6. CHANGE IN CONTROL

         Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan to the contrary (but
subject to the "provided, however" clause contained in the definition of "Change
in Control" in Section 2), upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the
following provisions shall apply.

         (a) The amount of the Bonus payable to any Executive for the Fiscal
Year in which a Change in Control occurs shall be at least equal to the Target
Bonus Percentage of the Executive's Base Salary for such year or, in the case of
any Executive whose Term of Employment commences after the start of such year or
ends prior to the close of such year, a pro rata portion thereof determined on
the basis of the number of days of such Fiscal Year that fall within the
Executive's Term of Employment.

         (b) Each Executive whose Term of Employment has not ended prior to the
occurrence of a Change in Control shall be entitled to receive a Bonus for each
Contract Year (as defined in the Executive's Employment Agreement) that falls in
whole or in part within the Executive's Term of Employment and that ends after
the Fiscal Year in which the Change in Control occurs. The amount of the Bonus
payable to the Executive for each such Contract Year shall be at least equal to
the Target Bonus Percentage of the Executive's Base Salary for such Contract
Year or, in the case of any Executive whose Term of Employment ends after the
start of such Contract Year but prior to the close of such year, a pro rata
portion thereof determined on the basis of the number of days of such Contract
Year that fall within the Executive's Term of Employment.

6

(c) The entire amount of the Bonus payable to an Executive for any
Fiscal Year or Contract Year pursuant to (a) or (b) above, reduced by the amount
of all federal, state and local taxes required to be withheld therefrom, shall
be paid to the Executive in a single cash lump sum as soon as practicable after
the close of such Fiscal Year or Contract Year, but in no event later than 2 1/2
months after the close of such Fiscal Year or Contract Year.

7. RIGHTS OF EXECUTIVES

         An Executive's rights and interests under the Plan shall be subject to
the following provisions:

         (a) An Executive's rights to payments under the Plan shall not be
subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment,
pledge, encumbrance, attachment, or garnishment by creditors of the Executive.

         (b) Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed
as giving any Executive any right to be retained in the employment of the
Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.

8. ADMINISTRATION

         The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. A majority of the
members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. The Committee may act at a
meeting, including a telephone meeting, by action of a majority of the members
present, or without a meeting by unanimous written consent. In addition to the
responsibilities and powers assigned to the Committee elsewhere in the Plan, the
Committee shall have the authority, in its discretion, to establish from time to
time guidelines or regulations for the administration of the Plan, interpret the
Plan, and make all determinations considered necessary or advisable for the
administration of the Plan.

         The Committee may delegate any ministerial or nondiscretionary function
pertaining to the administration of the Plan to any one or more officers of the
Corporation.

         All decisions, actions or interpretations of the Committee under the
Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, any determination made by the Committee after the occurrence of a
Change in Control that denies in whole or in part any claim made by any
individual for benefits under the Plan shall be subject to judicial review,
under a "de novo", rather than a deferential standard.

7

9. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION

         The Board of Directors may, (acting by the Committee if the by-laws of
the Corporation so provide), with prospective or retroactive effect, amend,
suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time; provided,
however, that (a) no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall
adversely affect the rights of any Executive with respect to any Bonus that has
become payable to the Executive under the Plan, without his or her written
consent, and (b) following a Change in Control, no amendment to Section 6, and
no termination of the Plan, shall be effective if such amendment or termination
adversely affects the rights of any Executive under the Plan.

10. SUCCESSOR CORPORATION

         The obligations of the Corporation under the Plan shall be binding upon
any successor corporation or organization resulting from the merger,
consolidation or other reorganization of the Corporation, or upon any successor
corporation or organization succeeding to substantially all of the assets and
business of the Corporation. The Corporation agrees that it will make
appropriate provision for the preservation of Executives' rights under the Plan
in any agreement or plan which it may enter into or adopt to effect any such
merger, consolidation, reorganization or transfer of assets.

11. GOVERNING LAW

         The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York.

12. EFFECTIVE DATE

         The Plan was adopted by the Committee on October 16, 2003 effective for
the Fiscal Year beginning August 3, 2003, subject, however, to approval by the
shareholders of the Corporation at the 2003 annual meeting of the shareholders,
including any adjournment thereof.

8

</EX-10.15>

<EX-10.28>
 6
 b415205_ex10-28.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.28

EXHIBIT 10.28

AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

         The AMENDED AND RESTATEDEMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated July 20, 2005
between PALL CORPORATION, a New York corporation (the "Company") and Eric
Krasnoff ("Executive"), (said Employment Agreement as the same may have been so
amended being hereinafter called "the Employment Agreement"), is hereby amended
as follows:

         WHEREAS, Section 3(b) of the Employment Agreement provides for a bonus
to Executive computed under the 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan adopted by
the Company in 2003, a copy of which is annexed to and incorporated by reference
into the Agreement (the "Original 2004 Bonus Plan"), and

         WHEREAS, by action of the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors on January 18, 2006 the Original 2004 Bonus Plan was amended in
certain respects so that the amended Bonus Plan should be substituted for the
Original 2004 Bonus Plan as the attachment to the Employment Agreement, and

         WHEREAS, none of said amendments will decrease or diminish the amount
of the bonus which Executive is entitled to receive under the Employment
Agreement and accordingly this Amendment may be made by the Company without
execution by Executive,

         NOW, THEREFORE, the Employment Agreement is hereby amended, effective
for the Company's fiscal year ending July 31, 2006 and subsequent fiscal years,
by substituting the 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan in the form annexed
hereto for the Original 2004 Bonus Plan for all purposes of the Employment
Agreement.

                                          PALL CORPORATION

Dated: May 3, 2006
                                          By: /s/ MARCUS WILSON
                                                  ---------------------------
                                                  Marcus Wilson
                                                  President

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.29>
 7
 b415205_ex10-29.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.29

EXHIBIT 10.29

AMENDMENT DATED JULY 18, 2006
                             TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

         The AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated JULY 20, 2005
between PALL CORPORATION, a New York Corporation (the "Company") and ERIC
KRASNOFF ("Executive") as amended by Amendment dated May 3, 2006 (said Amended
and Restated Employment Agreement as so amended being hereinafter called the
"Agreement") is hereby further amended as follows:

         1. Section 6(f)(v) of the Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:

                  (v) At the Company's option, the coverages and benefits to be
         provided hereunder may be provided through insurance, or by the Company
         directly paying, or reimbursing Executive or any of his Dependents for
         his or her payment of, expenses covered under this Section 6 (f).
         Notwithstanding the foregoing, during any period after the end of the
         Term of Employment in which any payments otherwise required to be made
         to Executive or for his benefit must be delayed pursuant to Section
         7(a) hereof, the coverages and benefits to be provided under this
         clause (v) shall be provided only by the Company reimbursing Executive
         or any of his Dependents for his or her payment of expenses covered
         under this Section 6 (f).

         2. Section 7(a) of the Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:

                  (a) Delay in Payment. Notwithstanding any provision in this
         Agreement to the contrary, any payment otherwise required to be made
         hereunder to Executive or for his benefit at any date (including
         without limitation any reimbursement required to be paid to Executive
         or to any of his Dependents pursuant to Section 6(f)(v) hereof) shall
         be delayed for such period of time as may be necessary to meet the
         requirements of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code. On the earliest
         date on which any payments so delayed can be made without violating the
         requirements of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code (the "Delayed
         Payment Date"), there shall be paid to Executive (or if Executive has
         died, to "Executive's Successor") (as the quoted term is defined in
         Section 6 (a) hereof), in a single cash lump sum, an amount equal to
         the aggregate amount of all payments delayed pursuant to the preceding
         sentence, plus interest thereon at the Delayed Payment Interest Rate
         (as defined below) computed from the date on which each such delayed
         payment otherwise would have been made to Executive until the Delayed
         Payment Date. For purposes of the foregoing, the "Delayed Payment
         Interest Rate" shall mean the national average annual rate of interest
         payable on jumbo six month bank certificates of deposit, as quoted in
         the business section of the most recently published Sunday edition of
         the New York Times preceding the date on which the Term of Employment
         ends or, if earlier, the date as of which Executive is treated as
         having incurred a "separation from service" for purposes of section
         409A(a)(2)(B)(i).

PALL CORPORATION

By: /s/ MARCUS WILSON
                                            ---------------------------------
                                            Marcus Wilson,
                                            President

EXECUTIVE

/s/ ERIC KRASNOFF
                                        -------------------------------------
                                        Eric Krasnoff

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.30>
 8
 b415205_ex10-30.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.30

EXHIBIT 10.30

AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

         The EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated May 1, 2003 between PALL CORPORATION, a
New York corporation (the "Company") and Marcus Wilson ("Executive"), as the
same may have heretofore been amended to substitute the Company's 2004 Executive
Incentive Bonus Plan for the 2001 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan as an
attachment thereto (said Employment Agreement as the same may have been so
amended being hereinafter called "the Employment Agreement"), is hereby amended
as follows:

         WHEREAS, Section 3(b) of the Employment Agreement provides for a bonus
to Executive computed under the 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan adopted by
the Company in 2003, a copy of which is annexed to and incorporated by reference
into the Agreement (the "Original 2004 Bonus Plan"), and

         WHEREAS, by action of the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors on January 18, 2006 the Original 2004 Bonus Plan was amended in
certain respects so that the amended Bonus Plan should be substituted for the
Original 2004 Bonus Plan as the attachment to the Employment Agreement, and

         WHEREAS, none of said amendments will decrease or diminish the amount
of the bonus which Executive is entitled to receive under the Employment
Agreement and accordingly this Amendment may be made by the Company without
execution by Executive,

         NOW, THEREFORE, the Employment Agreement is hereby amended, effective
for the Company's fiscal year ending July 31, 2006 and subsequent fiscal years,
by substituting the 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan in the form annexed
hereto for the Original 2004 Bonus Plan for all purposes of the Employment
Agreement.

                                         PALL CORPORATION

Dated: May 3, 2006
                                         By: /s/ ERIC KRASNOFF
                                                 ---------------------------
                                                 Eric Krasnoff
                                                 Chief Executive Officer

</EX-10.30>

<EX-10.31>
 9
 b415205_ex10-31.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.31

EXHIBIT 10.31

AMENDMENT DATED JULY 18, 2006
                             TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

The EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated May 1, 2003 between PALL CORPORATION, a
New York Corporation (the "Company") and Marcus Wilson ("Executive") as amended
by AMENDMENT DATED NOVEMBER 19, 2003 TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, AMENDMENT DATED
AUGUST 30, 2005 TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, and AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
dated May 3, 2006 (said Employment Agreement as so amended being hereinafter
called the "Agreement") is hereby further amended by changing ss.3 (f) of the
Agreement to read in its entirety as follows:

             (f) Delay in Payment. Notwithstanding any provision in this
        Agreement to the contrary, any payment otherwise required to be made
        hereunder to Executive at any date shall be delayed for such period of
        time as may be necessary to meet the requirements of section
        409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the
        "Code"). On the earliest date on which any payments so delayed can be
        made without violating the requirements of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of
        the Code (the "Delayed Payment Date"), there shall be paid to Executive
        (or if Executive has died, to "Executive's Successor" as the quoted term
        is defined below), in a single cash lump sum, an amount equal to the
        aggregate amount of all payments delayed pursuant to the preceding
        sentence, plus interest thereon at the Delayed Payment Interest Rate (as
        defined below) computed from the date on which each such delayed payment
        otherwise would have been made to Executive until the Delayed Payment
        Date. For purposes of the foregoing: (i) "Executive's Successor" shall
        mean such payee or payees as Executive shall at any time (whether during
        or after the Term of Employment) designate by written notice to the
        Company or in his last will and testament or, if no such designation is
        made, then to the legal representatives of Executive's estate, and (ii)
        the "Delayed Payment Interest Rate" shall mean the national average
        annual rate of interest payable on jumbo six-month bank certificates of
        deposit, as quoted in the business section of the most recently
        published Sunday edition of the New York Times preceding the date on
        which the Term of Employment ends or, if earlier, the date as of which
        Executive is treated as having incurred a "separation from service" for
        purposes of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i).

PALL CORPORATION

                               By:  /s/ ERIC KRASNOFF
                                        ---------------------------------
                                        Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

EXECUTIVE

                               /s/ MARCUS WILSON
                                   --------------------------------------
                                   Marcus Wilson

</EX-10.31>

<EX-10.32>
 10
 b415205_ex10-32.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.32

EXHIBIT 10.32

AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

The EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated November 15, 2001, as amended by
Amendments dated July 16, 2002, November 19, 2003, between PALL CORPORATION, a
New York corporation (the "Company") and Donald Stevens ("Executive"), as the
same may have heretofore been amended to substitute the Company's 2004 Executive
Incentive Bonus Plan for the 2001 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan as an
attachment thereto (said Employment Agreement as the same may have been so
amended being hereinafter called "the Employment Agreement"), is hereby amended
as follows:

         WHEREAS, Section 3(b) of the Employment Agreement provides for a bonus
to Executive computed under the 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan adopted by
the Company in 2003, a copy of which is annexed to and incorporated by reference
into the Agreement (the "Original 2004 Bonus Plan"), and

         WHEREAS, by action of the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors on January 18, 2006 the Original 2004 Bonus Plan was amended in
certain respects so that the amended Bonus Plan should be substituted for the
Original 2004 Bonus Plan as the attachment to the Employment Agreement, and

         WHEREAS, none of said amendments will decrease or diminish the amount
of the bonus which Executive is entitled to receive under the Employment
Agreement and accordingly this Amendment may be made by the Company without
execution by Executive,

         NOW, THEREFORE, the Employment Agreement is hereby amended, effective
for the Company's fiscal year ending July 31, 2006 and subsequent fiscal years,
by substituting the 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan in the form annexed
hereto for the Original 2004 Bonus Plan for all purposes of the Employment
Agreement.

                                            PALL CORPORATION

Dated: May 3, 2006
                                            By:  /s/ MARCUS WILSON
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     Marcus Wilson
                                                     President

</EX-10.32>

<EX-10.33>
 11
 b415205_ex10-33.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.33

EXHIBIT 10.33

AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

The EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated November 15, 2001, between PALL
CORPORATION, a New York Corporation (the "Company") and the undersigned, DONALD
STEVENS ("Executive"), as the same may have heretofore been amended, is hereby
amended, effective as of the date set forth below, by adding a new section
reading and providing as follows:

                  ss.15. Delay in Payment. Notwithstanding any provision in this
         Agreement to the contrary, any payment otherwise required to be made
         hereunder to Executive at any date shall be delayed for such period of
         time as may be necessary to meet the requirements of section
         409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the
         "Code"). On the earliest date on which any payments so delayed can be
         made without violating the requirements of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of
         the Code (the "Delayed Payment Date"), there shall be paid to Executive
         (or if Executive has died, to "Executive's Successor" as the quoted
         term is defined below), in a single cash lump sum, an amount equal to
         the aggregate amount of all payments delayed pursuant to the preceding
         sentence, plus interest thereon at the Delayed Payment Interest Rate
         (as defined below) computed from the date on which each such delayed
         payment otherwise would have been made to Executive until the Delayed
         Payment Date. For purposes of the foregoing: (i) "Executive's
         Successor" shall mean such payee or payees as Executive shall at any
         time designate by written notice to the Company or in his last will and
         testament or, if no such designation is made, then to the legal
         representatives of Executive's estate, and (ii) the "Delayed Payment
         Interest Rate" shall mean the national average annual rate of interest
         payable on jumbo six-month bank certificates of deposit, as quoted in
         the business section of the most recently published Sunday edition of
         the New York Times preceding the date as of which Executive is treated
         as having incurred a "separation from service" for purposes of section
         409A(a)(2)(B)(i).

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Amendment as
of and effective July 18, 2006.

                                        PALL CORPORATION

By:  /s/ MARCUS WILSON
                                                 ---------------------------
                                                 Marcus Wilson
                                                 President

EXECUTIVE

                                        /s/ DONALD STEVENS
                                            -------------------------------
                                            (Signature)

</EX-10.33>

<EX-10.34>
 12
 b415205_ex10-34.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.34

EXHIBIT 10.34

SECOND AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT DATED MAY 1, 2003 BETWEEN PALL
CORPORATION AND ANDREW DENVER AS FIRST AMENDED ON NOVEMBER 19, 2003 (THE
"AGREEMENT")

Pall Corporation (the "Company") and Andrew Denver (the "Executive") agree to
the following: (i) the term of the Agreement will end on December 1, 2006 (the
"Termination Date"); (ii) the Termination Date is inclusive of Executive's
taking his accrued statutorily provided Australian Long Service Leave and his
accrued vacation; (iii) for the purposes of the Pall Corporation Management
Stock Purchase Plan, the Executive's termination of employment will be treated
as an Involuntary Separation; (iv) for the period from August 1, 2005 until the
Termination Date, the Executive shall absent himself from the office and the
Executive's required duties are modified so that there are no required duties or
required assignments to be performed by the Executive for the Company or its
related entities; (v) from August 1, 2005 until the Termination Date, the
Executive must make himself available for assistance to the Company when
reasonably requested by the Company; (vi) from August 1, 2005 until the
Termination Date the Executive is permitted to engage in outside business
activities provided that they are compliant with the non-compete and
confidentiality provisions of this Agreement; (vii) Executive shall resign as
Senior Vice President of the Company and any subsidiaries of the Company of
which he is an officer effective August 31, 2005; and (viii) all other terms and
conditions of the Agreement other than those amended by this Amendment remain in
full force and effect including, but not limited to, the covenant not to compete
for eighteen (18) months after the Termination Date.

It is agreed that no bonus would be earned for 2007 fiscal year.

The Agreement is hereby amended effective June 21, 2005.

/s/  MARCUS WILSON                           /s/ ANDREW DENVER
     --------------------------                  ------------------------
By:  Marcus Wilson, President                    Executive: Andrew Denver
     Pall Corporation

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.35>
 13
 b414205_ex10-35.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.35

EXHIBIT 10.35

AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

The EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated May 1, 2003, between PALL CORPORATION, a
New York corporation (the "Company") and Andrew Denver ("Executive"), as the
same may have heretofore been amended to substitute the Company's 2004 Executive
Incentive Bonus Plan for the 2001 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan as an
attachment thereto (said Employment Agreement as the same may have been so
amended being hereinafter called "the Employment Agreement"), is hereby amended
as follows:

         WHEREAS, Section 3(b) of the Employment Agreement provides for a bonus
to Executive computed under the 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan adopted by
the Company in 2003, a copy of which is annexed to and incorporated by reference
into the Agreement (the "Original 2004 Bonus Plan"), and

         WHEREAS, by action of the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors on January 18, 2006 the Original 2004 Bonus Plan was amended in
certain respects so that the amended Bonus Plan should be substituted for the
Original 2004 Bonus Plan as the attachment to the Employment Agreement, and

         WHEREAS, none of said amendments will decrease or diminish the amount
of the bonus which Executive is entitled to receive under the Employment
Agreement and accordingly this Amendment may be made by the Company without
execution by Executive,

         NOW, THEREFORE, the Employment Agreement is hereby amended, effective
for the Company's fiscal year ending July 31, 2006 and subsequent fiscal years,
by substituting the 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan in the form annexed
hereto for the Original 2004 Bonus Plan for all purposes of the Employment
Agreement.

                                      PALL CORPORATION

Dated: May 3, 2006
                                      By:  /s/ MARCUS WILSON
                                               --------------------------------
                                               Marcus Wilson
                                               President

</EX-10.35>

<EX-10.36>
 14
 b415205_ex10-36.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.36

EXHIBIT 10.36

AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

The EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated September 12, 2005, between PALL
CORPORATION, a New York corporation (the "Company") and Roberto Perez
("Executive"), ("the Employment Agreement"), is hereby amended as follows:

         WHEREAS, Section 3(b) of the Employment Agreement provides for a bonus
to Executive computed under the 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan adopted by
the Company in 2003, a copy of which is annexed to and incorporated by reference
into the Agreement (the "Original 2004 Bonus Plan"), and

         WHEREAS, by action of the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors on January 18, 2006 the Original 2004 Bonus Plan was amended in
certain respects so that the amended Bonus Plan should be substituted for the
Original 2004 Bonus Plan as the attachment to the Employment Agreement, and

         WHEREAS, none of said amendments will decrease or diminish the amount
of the bonus which Executive is entitled to receive under the Employment
Agreement and accordingly this Amendment may be made by the Company without
execution by Executive,

         NOW, THEREFORE, the Employment Agreement is hereby amended, effective
for the Company's fiscal year ending July 31, 2006 and subsequent fiscal years,
by substituting the 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan in the form annexed
hereto for the Original 2004 Bonus Plan for all purposes of the Employment
Agreement.

                                      PALL CORPORATION

Dated: May 3, 2006
                                      By:  /s/ MARCUS WILSON
                                               --------------------------------
                                               Marcus Wilson
                                               President

</EX-10.36>

<EX-10.37>
 15
 b415205_ex10-37.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.37

EXHIBIT 10.37

AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

The EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated September 12, 2005, between PALL
CORPORATION, a New York Corporation (the "Company") and the undersigned, ROBERTO
PEREZ ("Executive"), as the same may have heretofore been amended, is hereby
amended, effective as of the date set forth below, by adding a new section
reading and providing as follows:

                  ss.15. Delay in Payment. Notwithstanding any provision in this
         Agreement to the contrary, any payment otherwise required to be made
         hereunder to Executive at any date shall be delayed for such period of
         time as may be necessary to meet the requirements of section
         409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the
         "Code"). On the earliest date on which any payments so delayed can be
         made without violating the requirements of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of
         the Code (the "Delayed Payment Date"), there shall be paid to Executive
         (or if Executive has died, to "Executive's Successor" as the quoted
         term is defined below), in a single cash lump sum, an amount equal to
         the aggregate amount of all payments delayed pursuant to the preceding
         sentence, plus interest thereon at the Delayed Payment Interest Rate
         (as defined below) computed from the date on which each such delayed
         payment otherwise would have been made to Executive until the Delayed
         Payment Date. For purposes of the foregoing: (i) "Executive's
         Successor" shall mean such payee or payees as Executive shall at any
         time designate by written notice to the Company or in his last will and
         testament or, if no such designation is made, then to the legal
         representatives of Executive's estate, and (ii) the "Delayed Payment
         Interest Rate" shall mean the national average annual rate of interest
         payable on jumbo six-month bank certificates of deposit, as quoted in
         the business section of the most recently published Sunday edition of
         the New York Times preceding the date as of which Executive is treated
         as having incurred a "separation from service" for purposes of section
         409A(a)(2)(B)(i).

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Amendment as
of and effective July 18, 2006.

                                       PALL CORPORATION

By:  /s/ MARCUS WILSON
                                                --------------------------
                                                Marcus Wilson
                                                President

EXECUTIVE

                                       /s/ ROBERTO PEREZ
                                           -------------------------------
                                           (Signature)

</EX-10.37>

<EX-10.38>
 16
 b415205_ex10-38.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.38

EXHIBIT 10.38

AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

The EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated June 1, 2004, between PALL CORPORATION,
a New York corporation (the "Company") and Lisa McDermott ("Executive"), ("the
Employment Agreement"), is hereby amended as follows:

         WHEREAS, Section 3(b) of the Employment Agreement provides for a bonus
to Executive computed under the 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan adopted by
the Company in 2003, a copy of which is annexed to and incorporated by reference
into the Agreement (the "Original 2004 Bonus Plan"), and

         WHEREAS, by action of the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors on January 18, 2006 the Original 2004 Bonus Plan was amended in
certain respects so that the amended Bonus Plan should be substituted for the
Original 2004 Bonus Plan as the attachment to the Employment Agreement, and

         WHEREAS, none of said amendments will decrease or diminish the amount
of the bonus which Executive is entitled to receive under the Employment
Agreement and accordingly this Amendment may be made by the Company without
execution by Executive,

         NOW, THEREFORE, the Employment Agreement is hereby amended, effective
for the Company's fiscal year ending July 31, 2006 and subsequent fiscal years,
by substituting the 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan in the form annexed
hereto for the Original 2004 Bonus Plan for all purposes of the Employment
Agreement.

                                        PALL CORPORATION

Dated: May 3, 2006
                                        By:  /s/ MARCUS WILSON
                                                 ------------------------------
                                                 Marcus Wilson
                                                 President

</EX-10.38>

<EX-10.39>
 17
 b415205_ex10-39.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.39

EXHIBIT 10.39

AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

The EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated June 1, 2004, between PALL CORPORATION,
a New York Corporation (the "Company") and the undersigned, LISA McDERMOTT
("Executive"), as the same may have heretofore been amended, is hereby amended,
effective as of the date set forth below, by adding a new section reading and
providing as follows:

                  ss.15. Delay in Payment. Notwithstanding any provision in this
         Agreement to the contrary, any payment otherwise required to be made
         hereunder to Executive at any date shall be delayed for such period of
         time as may be necessary to meet the requirements of section
         409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the
         "Code"). On the earliest date on which any payments so delayed can be
         made without violating the requirements of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of
         the Code (the "Delayed Payment Date"), there shall be paid to Executive
         (or if Executive has died, to "Executive's Successor" as the quoted
         term is defined below), in a single cash lump sum, an amount equal to
         the aggregate amount of all payments delayed pursuant to the preceding
         sentence, plus interest thereon at the Delayed Payment Interest Rate
         (as defined below) computed from the date on which each such delayed
         payment otherwise would have been made to Executive until the Delayed
         Payment Date. For purposes of the foregoing: (i) "Executive's
         Successor" shall mean such payee or payees as Executive shall at any
         time designate by written notice to the Company or in his last will and
         testament or, if no such designation is made, then to the legal
         representatives of Executive's estate, and (ii) the "Delayed Payment
         Interest Rate" shall mean the national average annual rate of interest
         payable on jumbo six-month bank certificates of deposit, as quoted in
         the business section of the most recently published Sunday edition of
         the New York Times preceding the date as of which Executive is treated
         as having incurred a "separation from service" for purposes of section
         409A(a)(2)(B)(i).

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Amendment as
of and effective July 18, 2006.

                                            PALL CORPORATION

By:  /s/ MARCUS WILSON
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     Marcus Wilson
                                                     President

EXECUTIVE

                                            /s/ LISA MCDERMOTT
                                                --------------------------------
                                                (Signature)

</EX-10.39>

<EX-21>
 18
 b415205_ex21.txt
 EXHIBIT 21

EXHIBIT 21

SUBSIDIARIES OF PALL CORPORATION

Pall Corporation owns 100% of the outstanding capital stock of those companies
listed below, except where otherwise noted:

State or Other Jurisdiction
Name of Company                                                   of Incorporation

Medsep Corporation                                                              Delaware
Pall Acquisition LLC                                                            Delaware
Pall Aeropower Corporation                                                      Delaware
Pall Biomedical, Inc.                                                           Delaware
Pall Industrial Membranes LLC                                                   Delaware
Pall International Corporation                                                  Delaware
Pall Puerto Rico, Inc.                                                          Delaware
Pall - PASS US, Inc.                                                            Delaware
Russell Associates Inc.                                                         Maryland
Gelman Sciences, Inc.                                                           Michigan

Pall Austria Filter GmbH                                                        Austria
Pall (Canada) Limited                                                           Canada
Pall Europe Limited (a)                                                         England
Pall France S.A.                                                                France
Pall Deutschland Beteiligungs GmbH                                              Germany
Pall Deutschland Holding GmbH & Co. KG Partnership (c)                          Germany
Pall Italia S.R.L.                                                              Italy
Gelman Ireland Ltd.                                                             Ireland
Pall Netherlands B.V. (a), (d)                                                  The Netherlands
PLLN C.V. Partnership (b), (d)                                                  The Netherlands
Pall Norge AS                                                                   Norway
Pall Espana S.A.                                                                Spain
Pall Norden AB                                                                  Sweden
Pall (Schweiz) A.G.                                                             Switzerland
Argentaurum A.G.                                                                Switzerland

Pall Filter (Beijing) Co., Ltd.                                                 China
Pall Asia International Ltd.                                                    Hong Kong
Pall India Private Ltd.                                                         India
PT Pall Filtration Indonesia                                                    Indonesia
Nihon Pall Ltd.                                                                 Japan
Pall New Zealand Limited                                                        New Zealand
Pall Filtration Pte. Ltd.                                                       Singapore
Pall Singapore Taiwan Branch Holding Company Pte. Ltd.                          Singapore
Pall Korea Ltd.                                                                 South Korea
Pall Corporation Filtration and Separations (Thailand) Ltd.                     Thailand

(a) Contributed to PLLN C.V. a Netherlands Partnership
(b) General Partner: Pall-PASS US, Inc.; Limited Partner: Pall Corporation
(c) General Partner: Pall Deutschland Beteiligungs GmbH; Limited
    Partner: Pall Corporation
(d) On July 28, 2006, PLLN C.V. sold approximately 79% of its interest in Pall
Europe Limited to Pall Netherlands B.V.

All subsidiaries listed above are included in the Company's consolidated
financial statements. The list does not include inactive subsidiaries.

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 19
 b415205_ex23.txt
 EXHIBIT 23

EXHIBIT 23

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Board of Directors and Stockholders
Pall Corporation:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements on
Form S-8 (Nos. 333-132407, 333-121547, 333-111218, 333-111212, 333-76976,
333-51090, 333-87655, 333-82469, 333-68371, 033-64751) and on Form S-3 (Nos.
333-104595, 333-18971 and 033-57507) of Pall Corporation and subsidiaries of our
reports dated October 12, 2006, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets
of Pall Corporation and subsidiaries as of July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity and cash flows
for each of the years in the three-year period ended July 31, 2006, and the
related financial statement schedule, management's assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006
and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of July
31, 2006, which reports appear in the July 31, 2006 annual report on Form 10-K
of Pall Corporation.

/s/ KPMG LLP
                                                  --------------------
                                                  KPMG LLP

Melville, New York
October 12, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 20
 b415205_ex31-1.txt
 EXHIBIT 31.1

EXHIBIT 31.1

        CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF
                         THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Eric Krasnoff, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Pall
Corporation, certify that:

     1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Pall Corporation;

     2.   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
          statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
          necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
          under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to
          the period covered by this report;

     3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
          information included in this report, fairly present in all material
          respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
          of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
          report;

     4.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
          establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
          defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
          control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
          13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

          a)   Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
               disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
               supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
               registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
               known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
               the period in which this report is being prepared;

          b)   Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
               caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
               designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
               regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
               preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
               accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

          c)   Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure
               controls and procedures and presented in this report our
               conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
               and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
               report based on such evaluation; and

          d)   Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
               control over financial reporting that occurred during the
               registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
               quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
               affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
               registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

     5.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based
          on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
          reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the
          registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
          functions):

          a)   All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
               design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
               which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's
               ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
               information; and

          b)   Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
               other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
               internal control over financial reporting.

Date: October 12, 2006

                                  /s/ ERIC KRASNOFF
                                      --------------------------------
                                      Eric Krasnoff
                                      Chairman of the Board and
                                      Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 21
 b415205_ex31-2.txt
 EXHIBIT 31.2

EXHIBIT 31.2

        CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF
                         THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Lisa McDermott, Chief Financial Officer of Pall Corporation, certify that:

1.    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Pall Corporation;

2.    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
      of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report;

3.    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
      information included in this report, fairly present in all material
      respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
      the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

      a)    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
            disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
            supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
            registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known
            to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
            period in which this report is being prepared;

      b)    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused
            such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under
            our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
            reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
            statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
            accepted accounting principles;

      c)    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
            and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about
            the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of
            the end of the period covered by this report based on such
            evaluation; and

      d)    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
            control over financial reporting that occurred during the
            registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
            quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
            affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
            registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

      a)    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
            or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
            reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
            record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

      b)    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
            other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
            internal control over financial reporting.

Date: October 12, 2006

                                              /s/ LISA MCDERMOTT
                                                  ------------------------------
                                                  Lisa McDermott
                                                  Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 22
 b415205_ex32-1.txt
 EXHIBIT 32.1

EXHIBIT 32.1

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

         In connection with the Annual Report of Pall Corporation (the
"Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending July 31, 2006, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Eric
Krasnoff, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to my
knowledge:

         (i) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

         (ii) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

October 12, 2006

                                              /s/ ERIC KRASNOFF
                                                  -----------------------------
                                                  Eric Krasnoff
                                                  Chief Executive Officer

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 23
 b415205_ex32-2.txt
 EXHIBIT 32.2

EXHIBIT 32.2

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

         In connection with the Annual Report of Pall Corporation (the
"Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending July 31, 2006, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Lisa
McDermott, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to my
knowledge:

         (i) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

         (ii) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

October 12, 2006

                                          /s/ LISA MCDERMOTT
                                              --------------------------------
                                              Lisa McDermott
                                              Chief Financial Officer

</EX-32.2>

