<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061229_10-K_edgar_data_54991_0000950152-06-010445_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>690631</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>232930</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>279067</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>48</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950152-06-010445.hdr.sgml : 20061229
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061229124028
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950152-06-010445
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061229
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061229

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000054991
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	INSTRUMENTS FOR MEAS & TESTING OF ELECTRICITY & ELEC SIGNALS [3825]
		IRS NUMBER:				340794417
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			OH
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-09965
		FILM NUMBER:		061304930

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		28775 AURORA RD
		CITY:			SOLON
		STATE:			OH
		ZIP:			44139
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2162480400

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Q5Z0ZT3Bepn9L+cuIbPf9MO28RC4Bz3mteOIAX6t4r04M2RBZi7W/1gDYZJAuFGn
 hAe1gx/LrwjmD+SuEGXzDg==

 0000950152-06-010445.txt : 20061229

10-K
 1
 l23663be10vk.htm
 KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS    10-K

Keithley Instruments    10-K 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Ohio  
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

34-0794417  
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 

Address of principal executive offices:  28775 Aurora Road, Solon, Ohio, 44139  
Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  (440) 248-0400  
Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Shares, Without Par Value  
(Title of Each Class)

New York Stock Exchange  
(Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered) 

Securities Registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act:  None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d) of the Act. Yes     No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer           Accelerated filer           Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes     No

The aggregate market value of the Common Shares of the Registrant held by non-affiliates was $215.8
million and the aggregate market value of the Class B Common Shares of the Registrant held by
non-affiliates was $0.3 million for a total aggregate market value of all classes of Common Shares
held by non-affiliates of $216.1 million at March 31, 2006, the registrant s most recently
completed second fiscal quarter. While the Class B Common Shares are not listed for public trading
on any exchange or market system, shares of that class are convertible into Common Shares at any
time on a share-for-share basis. The market values indicated
were calculated based upon the last sale price of the Common Shares as reported by the New York
Stock Exchange on March 31, 2006, which was $15.36.

As of December 21, 2006 there were outstanding 14,004,745 Common Shares (net of shares repurchased
held in treasury), without par value, and 2,150,502 Class B Common Shares, without par value.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement for the registrant s 2007 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (the  2007 Annual Meeting ) are incorporated by reference in Part III in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K (this  Annual Report ) and are identified under the appropriate items in this
Annual Report.

Keithley Instruments, Inc. 
10-K Annual Report 

Table of Contents 

PAGE 

PART I:

Item 1

Business 

2 

Item 1A

Risk Factors 

5 

Item 1B

Unresolved Staff Comments 

7 

Item 2

Properties 

7 

Item 3

Legal Proceedings 

7 

Item 4

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

8 

PART II:

Item 5

Market for the Registrant s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

9 

Item 6

Selected Financial Data 

10 

Item 7

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

11 

Item 7A

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

17 

Item 8

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

18 

Item 9

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

39 

Item 9A

Controls and Procedures 

39 

Item 9B

Other Information 

39 

PART III:

Item 10

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

40 

Item 11

Executive Compensation 

40 

Item 12

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

40 

Item 13

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

40 

Item 14

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

40 

PART IV:

Item 15

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

40 

SIGNATURES

43 

~ 1 ~ 

Forward-Looking Statements 

Statements and information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K by Keithley
Instruments, Inc. ( Keithley,   the Company,   we,   us  or  our ) that are not purely historical
are forward-looking statements within the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include statements regarding
Keithley s expectations, intentions, beliefs, and strategies regarding the future, including recent
trends, cyclicality, and growth in the markets Keithley sells into, conditions of the electronics
industry, deployment of our own sales employees throughout the world, investments to develop new
products, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our future effective tax
rate, liquidity position, ability to generate cash, expected growth, obligations under our
retirement benefit plans, and the consequences of investigations and litigation related to our
stock option practices.

When used in this report, the words  believes,   expects,   anticipates,   intends,   assumes, 
 estimates,   evaluates,   opinions,   forecasts,   may,   could,   future,   forward, 
 potential,   probable,  and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
statements.

These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. We may make other forward-looking
statements from time to time, including in press releases and public conference calls and webcasts.
All forward-looking statements made by Keithley are based on information available to us at the
time the statements are made, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
It is important to note that actual results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that
could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in such forward-looking
statements. Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed below in Item 1A Risk Factors of
Part I of this Form 10-K.

PART I 

ITEM 1   BUSINESS 

General 

Keithley Instruments, Inc. was founded in 1946 and organized as an Ohio corporation in 1955. Its
principal executive offices are located at 28775 Aurora Road, Solon, Ohio 44139; telephone (440)
248-0400. References herein to the  Company,   Keithley,   we  or  our  are to Keithley
Instruments, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise.

Our website is www.keithley.com. We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) available to the public free of charge through
our website as soon as reasonably practicable after making such filings. The public may read and
copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549. The public may also obtain information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally, the SEC maintains an internet
site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Keithley Instruments, Inc. designs, develops, manufactures and markets complex electronic
instruments and systems geared to the specialized needs of electronics manufacturers for
high-performance production testing, process monitoring, product development and research. The
Company has approximately 500 products used to source, measure, connect, control or communicate
direct current (DC), radio frequency (RF) or optical signals. Product offerings include integrated
systems solutions, along with instruments and personal computer (PC) plug-in boards that can be
used as system components or stand-alone solutions. Our customers are engineers, technicians and
scientists in manufacturing, product development and research functions.

During fiscal 2006, approximately 35 percent of our orders were received from the semiconductor
industry; approximately 15 percent came from research and education customers; approximately 10
percent came from the wireless communications customer group; and approximately 30 percent came
from the precision electronic components and subassembly manufacturers customer group, which
includes customers in automotive, computers and peripherals, medical equipment, aerospace and
defense, and manufacturers of components, including optoelectronic components. The remainder of
orders came from customers in a variety of other industries. Although our products vary in
capability, sophistication, use, size and price, they generally test, measure and analyze
electrical, RF,
optical or physical properties. As such, we consider our business to be in a single industry
segment.

Business Strategy 

We have focused our efforts on identifying test applications within segments of the electronics
test and measurement industry that have high rates of technology change, long-term growth in
demand, a meaningful market size, and that leverage our measurement capabilities and/or other test
applications. We estimate total annual sales for these segments to be in excess of $1 billion. New
products are an important factor in our sales growth strategy, and we have increased our investment
in product development activity spending levels to expand our product offering and accelerate the
introduction of new products. Expanding our measurement technology platforms beyond our traditional
DC and IV base to include new RF and pulse test platforms allows us to serve a broader set of
applications in a larger addressable market.

We work closely with our customers to build partnerships in order to anticipate their current and
future measurement needs. A thorough understanding of their applications coupled with our precision
measurement technology enables us to add value to our customers  processes improving the quality,
throughput and yield of their products, as well as to determine which test applications we will
choose to serve. We believe

~ 2 ~ 

our ability to serve our customers has been aided immeasurably by deploying our own sales and
support employees throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia, as opposed to relying on a contract
sales force.

We leverage our applications expertise and product platforms to other industries. By concentrating
on interrelated industries and product technologies, we are able to gain insight into measurement
problems experienced by one set of customers that can be addressed and offered as solutions for
others. Our applications knowledge and technology solutions in one area build credibility as we
expand to related fields, often using the same measurement platforms that are proven among a
variety of customers.

Product Offerings 

We have approximately 500 products used to source, measure, connect, control or communicate DC, RF
or optical signals. Product offerings include integrated systems solutions and instruments and PC
plug-in boards that can be used as system components or stand-alone solutions. Prices per product
vary. Parametric test systems used by semiconductor wafer manufacturers generally range in price
from $150,000 to $500,000 depending upon the options chosen by the customer. Our semiconductor
characterization system ranges in price from $30,000 to $75,000. Bench top instruments generally
range in price from $1,000 to $15,000 on a stand-alone basis and from $15,000 to $25,000 when used
as a system. Switch systems generally range in price from $2,000 to $50,000. PC plug-in boards are
used for process control and data collection applications, and in production test for machine
builders and system integrators. Selling prices generally range from $200 to $4,000.

New Products During Fiscal Year 2006 

The Company develops new products for specific industry applications and for general purposes to
serve a larger customer constituency. New products introduced during fiscal 2006 included:

The first products in our new RF family, the Model 2910 RF Vector Signal Generator, the Model 2810
RF Vector Signal Analyzer and the Model 3500 Portable RF Power Meter. Interest in these products
comes from RF Integrated Circuit (RFIC) manufacturers as well as cell phone handset manufacturers.
These instruments employ new approaches to test and measurement that enable users to save time,
effort and money through their ease of use, flexibility, high-performance and compact size. Our new
RF products can be used throughout our customers  design, development and manufacturing processes,
and they complement existing Keithley solutions such as our battery simulation sources,
semiconductor characterization systems, and source-measure units.

We introduced two additions to our Series 2600 System Source Meter Instruments line. The Models
2611 and 2612 add higher voltage and current pulse capabilities, which broaden the range of devices
that can be tested with the high throughput and multi-channel capability of this product family.
The measurement speed and functionality of these products lowers the cost of test for a wide range
of semiconductor devices, sensors and other components in both lab and production applications.

For semiconductor devices and materials that require high speed pulse characterization, such as
silicon on insulator based devices, we introduced the first products in our Series 3400
Pulse/Pattern Generator family, the Models 3401 and 3402. The three nanosecond pulse width of these
products is ideal for semiconductor device and materials research and characterization, which
includes
nanotechnology R D.

Geographic Markets and Distribution 

During fiscal 2006, substantially all of the Company s products were manufactured in Ohio and were
sold in over 80 countries throughout the world. The Company s principal markets are the United
States, Europe and Asia.

In the United States, our products are sold by our own sales personnel and through direct marketing
and catalog mailings. Outside the United States, we market our products directly in countries in
which we have sales offices and through distributors or manufacturers  representatives in other
countries. Keithley has subsidiary sales and service offices located in Great Britain, Germany,
France, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Italy, Japan and Malaysia. We also have sales offices in
Belgium, Finland, Sweden, China, Korea, Taiwan, India and Singapore. Sales in areas outside the
above named locations are made through independent sales representatives and distributors.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

Our products require a wide variety of electronic and mechanical components, most of which are
purchased. We have multiple sources for the vast majority of the components and materials we use;
however, there are some instances where the components are obtained from a sole-source supplier. If
we were unable to purchase components or materials from a sole-source supplier, we could experience
a temporary adverse impact on operations; however, we believe alternative sources could be found
quickly. Although shortages of purchased materials and components have been experienced from time
to time, these items have generally been available as needed.

Patents 

Electronic instruments of the nature we design, develop and manufacture generally cannot be
patented in their entirety. Although we hold patents with respect to certain of our products, we do
not believe our business is dependent to any material extent upon any single patent or group of
patents because of the rapid rate of technological change in the industry.

Seasonal Trends and Working Capital Requirements 

Our business is not subject to significant seasonal trends. However, many of the industries we
serve, including the semiconductor industry, the wireless communications industry and other sectors
of the global electronics industry, historically have been cyclical. We do not have any unusual
working capital requirements.

~ 3 ~ 

Customers 

Our customers generally are involved in production test, engineering research and development,
electronic service or repair, and educational and governmental research. During the fiscal year
ended September 30, 2006, no one customer accounted for more than 10% of our sales. We do not
believe that the loss of any one customer would materially affect our sales or net income.

Backlog 

Our backlog of unfilled orders amounted to approximately $17,147,000 as of September 30, 2006 and
approximately $18,331,000 as of September 30, 2005. We expect that substantially all of the orders
included in the 2006 backlog will be delivered during fiscal 2007. A portion of orders included in
backlog may be canceled by the customer prior to shipment. The level of backlog at any given time
will be affected by the timing of the Company s receipt of orders and the speed with which those
orders are filled. Accordingly, the Company s backlog as of September 30, 2006 may not necessarily
represent the actual amount of shipments or sales for any future period.

Competition 

The Company competes on the basis of quality, performance, service and price, with quality and
performance frequently being dominant. There are many firms in the world engaged in the manufacture
of electronic measurement instruments, some of which are larger and have greater financial
resources than the Company. In general, we compete with a number of companies in specialized areas
of the test and measurement industry and one large broad line measurement products supplier,
Agilent Technologies, Inc.

Research and Development 

Our engineering development activities are directed toward the development of new products that
will complement, replace or add to the products currently included in our product line. We do not
perform basic research, but on an ongoing basis we utilize new component and software technologies
in the development of our products. The highly technical nature of our products and the rapid rate
of technological change in the industry require a large and continuing commitment to engineering
development efforts. Product development expenses were $23,671,000 in 2006, $17,040,000 in 2005 and
$15,017,000 in 2004, or approximately 15%, 12% and 11% of net sales, respectively, for each of the
last three fiscal years.

Government Regulations 

We believe our current operations and uses of property, plant and equipment conform in all material
respects to applicable laws and regulations. Keithley has not experienced, nor do we anticipate,
any material claim or material capital expenditure in connection with environmental laws and other
regulations.

Employees 

As of September 30, 2006, the Company employed approximately 673 persons, 184 of whom were located
outside the United States. None of our employees are covered under the terms of a collective
bargaining agreement, and we believe that relations with our employees are good.

Foreign Operations and Export Sales 

Information related to foreign and domestic operations and export sales is contained in Note L of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report.

Keithley has significant revenues from outside the United States which increase the risk to the
Company. These risks include increased exposure to the risk of foreign currency fluctuations and
the potential economic and political impacts from conducting business in foreign countries. With
the exception of changes in the value of foreign currencies, which is not possible to predict, we
believe our foreign subsidiaries and other larger international markets are in countries where the
economic and political climates generally are stable. The Company also must comply with foreign
regulations, which may increase the complexity of conducting its business.

Executive Officers Of The Registrant 

Certain information regarding our executive officers is set forth below:

Name  
       
      Position  
       
      Age  

Joseph P. Keithley

Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer 

58 

Steven A. Chipchase

Vice President Operations 

43 

Philip R. Etsler

Vice President Human Resources 

56 

Alan S. Gaffney

Vice President Commercial Marketing and Information Systems 

36 

Mark A. Hoersten

Vice President Business Management 

48 

Larry L. Pendergrass

Vice President New Product Development 

51 

John A. Pesec

Vice President Worldwide Sales and Support 

46 

Mark J. Plush

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

57 

Linda C. Rae

Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer 

41 

~ 4 ~ 

Joseph P. Keithley was elected Chairman of the Board of Directors in February 1991. He was
elected Chief Executive Officer in November 1993, and President in May 1994. He has been a
Director since 1986, and was elected Vice Chairman of the Board in February 1988. Mr. Keithley
joined the Company in 1976 and held various positions in production, customer service, sales and
marketing prior to being elected Vice President of Marketing in 1986.

Stephen A. Chipchase was elected Vice President Operations in December 2005. Mr. Chipchase joined
Keithley in April 2000 as Materials/ Logistics Manager and held various positions in operations,
including Cell Manager from March to July 2003, Acting Director of Operations from July 2003 to
February 2004, and Director of Operations from February 2004 to December 2005.

Philip R. Etsler has been Vice President of Human Resources since February 1990. He joined the
Company in January 1986 as Personnel Director.

Alan S. Gaffney was elected Vice President Commercial Marketing and Information Systems in May
2003. He joined Keithley in July 1999 as Direct Marketing Manager. He became Director of
Worldwide Communications and Marketing Support in May 2000.

Mark A. Hoersten was elected Vice President Business Management in May 2003. He joined Keithley
in June 1980 as a Design Engineer and held various positions in product development and marketing
until September 1997 when Mr. Hoersten became the Director of Marketing. He was promoted to
Telecommunications Test Business Manager in July 1999, and General Manager in April 2001.

Larry L. Pendergrass joined Keithley in May 2003 as Vice President New Product Development. Prior
to joining Keithley, Mr. Pendergrass had over 20 years experience in research and development,
product development, and manufacturing engineering in various roles including Section Manager,
Project Manager and Project Leader with Agilent Technologies and Hewlett-Packard.

John A. Pesec was elected Vice President Worldwide Sales and Support in September 2002. Mr. Pesec
joined Keithley in July 1990 and has held various positions with Keithley since then, including
Director of Pacific Basin Operations from February 1995 to January 1998, Director Semiconductor
Sales from January 1998 to March 1999, Director of Sales from March 1999 to April 2001, and
Managing Director Worldwide Sales from April 2001 to September 2002.

Mark J. Plush was elected Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in October 1998. Mr. Plush
joined the Company in March 1982 as Controller.

Linda C. Rae was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in December 2005.
Ms. Rae joined Keithley in September 1995 as a Product Marketer and has held various marketing
positions with Keithley since then, including Component Test Business Manager from July 1999 to
June 2000, Business Manager of Optoelectronics from June 2000 to April 2001, General Manager from
April 2001 to May 2003, and Senior Vice President and General Manager from May 2003 to December
2005.

ITEM 1A   RISK FACTORS 

Current and potential shareholders should consider the risk factors described below. Any of these
or other factors, many of which are beyond our control, could negatively affect our revenue,
results of operations and cash flow.

Cyclicality of the electronics industry and timing of large orders 

Many of the industries we serve, including but not limited to the semiconductor industry, the
wireless communications industry, and precision electronic components and subassemblies
manufacturers, have historically been very cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. The
downturns have had, and may have in the future, a material adverse impact on our customers  demand
for equipment, including test and measurement equipment. The severity and length of a downturn also
may affect overall access to capital, which could adversely affect the Company s customers. In
addition, the factors leading to and the severity and length of a downturn are difficult to predict
and there can be no assurance that we will appropriately anticipate changes in the underlying end
markets we serve or that any increased levels of business activity will continue as a trend into
the future. Our orders are cancelable by customers, and consequently, orders outstanding at the end
of a reporting period may not result in realized sales in the future. Orders from our top 25
customers of the quarter can generally vary between 30-50 percent of our total orders for any given
quarter. This can cause our financial results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which may have
an adverse impact on our stock price.

Rapid technology changes 

Our business relies on the development of new high technology products and services, including
products incorporating RF and pulse capabilities, to provide solutions to our customers  complex
measurement needs. This requires anticipation of customers  changing needs and emerging technology
trends. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether
our expectations will eventually result in products that achieve market acceptance. We have
increased our expenses for new product development; however, our new products may or may not result
in significant sources of revenue and earnings in the future. If our new product development
investments do not result in future earnings, our operating results could be adversely affected.

Competitive factors 

We compete on the basis of product performance, customer service, product availability and price.
There are many firms in the world engaged in the manufacture of electronic measurement instruments,
and the test and measurement industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are larger and
have greater financial resources, and/or have established significant reputations within the test
and measurement industry and with the customer base we serve. If any of our competitors were to
develop products or services that were more cost-effective or technically superior to ours, or if
we were unable to differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors, demand for our
products could slow. Additionally,

~ 5 ~ 

aggressive competition could cause downward pricing pressure, which would reduce our gross margins
or cause us to lose market share. We also face competition for personnel with certain highly
technical specialties. If we were unable to hire or retain certain key employees, our business
could be adversely affected.

Dependence on key suppliers 

Our products contain large quantities of electronic components and subassemblies that in some cases
are supplied through sole or limited source third-party suppliers. As a result, there can be no
assurance that parts and supplies will be available in a timely manner and at reasonable prices.
Additionally, our inventory is subject to risks of changes in market demand for particular
products. Our inability to obtain critical parts and supplies or any resulting excess and/or
obsolete inventory could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

International operations, political and economic conditions 

We currently have subsidiaries or sales offices located in 16 countries outside the United States,
and non-U.S. sales accounted for approximately two-thirds of our revenue during fiscal 2006. Our
future results could be adversely affected by several factors relating to our international sales
operations, including fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates, political unrest, wars and acts
of terrorism, changes in other economic or political conditions, trade protection measures, import
or export licensing requirements, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and natural
disasters. Any of these factors could have a negative impact on our revenue and operating results.

Changes in manufacturing processes 

We have implemented a lean manufacturing environment in our manufacturing facilities, which are
located in Solon, Ohio. We may not experience future benefits from lean manufacturing if we are
unable to continue to effectively fine-tune our operations, and we could incur additional costs in
the future, having a negative impact on gross margin, if new initiatives are needed to further
improve manufacturing efficiencies.

Tax planning strategies 

We pay taxes in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. We utilize available tax credits and
other tax planning strategies in an effort to minimize our overall tax liability. Our estimated tax
rate for fiscal 2007 could change from what is currently anticipated due to changes in tax laws in
various countries, changes in our overall tax planning strategy, or changes in the mix of countries
where earnings or losses are incurred. At September 30, 2006, we had a valuation allowance against
certain deferred tax assets and had not established valuation allowances against other deferred tax
assets based on tax strategies planned to mitigate the risk of impairment to these assets.
Accordingly, if facts or financial results were to change thereby impacting the likelihood of
realizing the deferred tax assets, our tax rate and therefore our earnings could be adversely
affected.

Information technology management systems 

Our IT systems are critical to our normal business operations, and we rely on them to provide
adequate, accurate and timely financial information. Throughout the last three fiscal years, we
have implemented new Enterprise Resource Planning, or ERP, and Customer Relationship Management, or
CRM, systems, and we intend to further upgrade our information technology systems in the future. We
also have outsourced the hosting of these systems to a third-party vendor located in Texas. Our
results could be adversely affected if we are unable to implement further system enhancements
without significant interruptions in accounting systems, order entry, billing, manufacturing and
other customer support functions. If our third-party vendor experiences shuts downs or other
service-related issues, it could interrupt our normal business processes including our ability to
process orders, ship our products, bill and service our
customers, and otherwise run our business, resulting in a material adverse effect on our revenue
and operating results.

Fixed cost of sales force 

We have continued to build our direct sales force throughout the world with our own employees
rather than utilizing third-party sales representatives. This action increases our fixed costs, and
our results could be adversely affected during times of depressed sales.

Non-cash compensation expense 

We currently grant non-cash compensation in the form of non-qualified stock options, performance
share units and restricted share units. The final number of common shares to be issued pursuant to
the performance share unit awards will be determined at the end of each three-year performance
period. The awards issued in fiscal year 2006 can be adjusted in 50 percent increments and may
range from a maximum of twice the initial award, as specified in the agreement, to a minimum of no
units depending upon the level of attainment of performance thresholds. We are currently accruing
expense for performance share unit awards based upon our estimate that the number of shares to be
issued will be equal to the initial award amount. Our future earnings can fluctuate throughout the
performance period specified in the agreements depending upon our estimate of the number of awards
we expect will be issued upon the completion of the performance period.

Historical stock option grant practices 

We delayed the filing of this Form 10-K pending completion of the financial reporting consequences
of the previously announced independent investigation into our past stock option grant practices
being conducted by a Special Committee of our Board of Directors. Due to these matters, we
have experienced substantial additional risks and costs.

As disclosed under  Legal Proceedings   Stock Option Matters,  in August 2006 we established a
Special Committee of our Board of Directors to investigate the Company s stock option practices
since the beginning of the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995. In addition, we were notified in
September 2006 that the staff of the SEC was conducting an informal inquiry into our stock option
practices. The Company announced the special committee s findings on December 29, 2006, including
that no restatement of the Company s historical financial statements would be required. There can
be no assurance, however, that the staff of the SEC will not disagree with this position in the
future and require a restatement. In addition, the SEC s informal inquiry continues.

~ 6 ~ 

Certain of the Company s Directors and current and former officers have been named as defendants in
a consolidated shareholder derivative action filed in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Ohio captioned In Re Keithley Instruments, Inc. Derivative Litigation. The
consolidated action seeks to uncover unspecified money damages, discouragement of profits and
benefits, equitable injunctive relief and other remedies. The Company is also named as a nominal
defendant.

We are not able to predict the future outcome of the SEC inquiry and the derivative action. These
matters could result in significant new expenses, diversion of management s attention from our
business, commencement of formal similar, administrative or litigation actions against the Company
or our current or former employees or Directors, significant fines or penalties, indemnity
commitments to current and former officers and Directors and other material harm to our business.
The SEC also may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported (or not
reported) the financial impact of past option grants or other potential accounting errors, and
there is a risk that its inquiry could lead to circumstances in which we may have to restate our
prior financial statements, amend prior SEC filings or otherwise take actions not currently
contemplated. Any such circumstance also could lead to future delays in filing of subsequent SEC
reports.

Other risk factors 

Our business could be affected by worldwide macroeconomic factors. The recent rise in energy
prices, as well as rising interest rates, could have a negative impact on the overall economy which
could impact our revenue and operating results. Other risk factors include, but are not limited to,
changes in our customer and product mix affecting our gross margins, credit risk of customers,
potential litigation, claims, regulatory and administrative proceedings arising in the normal
course of business, as well as terrorist activities and armed conflicts.

ITEM 1B   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None.

ITEM 2   PROPERTIES 

The Company s principal administrative, marketing, manufacturing and development activities are
conducted at two Company-owned buildings in Solon, Ohio. The Company also leases space in Santa
Rosa, California for its RF product development group. The two Company-owned buildings total
approximately 200,000 square feet and sit on approximately 33 acres of land. The Company also owns
another 50,000 square foot building on 5.5 acres of land adjacent to its executive offices. This
facility currently is being leased to others, but is available for expansion should additional
space be required. Additionally, we have a number of sales and service offices in the United States
and overseas. We believe the facilities owned and leased are well maintained, adequately insured
and suitable for their present and intended uses.

ITEM 3   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

Stock Option Investigations 

As previously announced, the Company s management initiated an internal review of its stock option
practices in light of concerns raised at other companies. Following that internal review, in August
2006 the Company s Board of Directors formed a Special Committee of independent directors to
investigate the Company s stock option practices since the beginning of the fiscal year ended
September 30, 1995. The Committee retained Jones Day as its independent counsel to assist it in the
investigation (the  Independent Counsel ).

Following appointment of the Special Committee, the Company voluntarily notified the staff of the
SEC of the Special Committee investigation. In September 2006, the Company received notice that the
SEC was conducting an inquiry into the Company s option grant practices. The SEC s investigation is
ongoing and the Company continues to cooperate with the SEC staff.

The Special Committee s findings, which have been adopted by the Board of Directors, are as
follows:

There was no evidence of  backdating  annual stock option grants prior to the date of
approval by the Board of Directors. 

There was a multi-day delay by management in setting the exercise price for annual stock
option grants in 2000, 2001 and 2002. The delay resulted in the options having a lower
exercise price than the price on the date of Board approval. In each of these three years, the
price selected by management was the lowest price for the Company s common shares for the
period between Board approval and the administrative recording of the grants. 

Although the Special Committee determined that the terms of the Company s stock incentive
plans required the options to be priced on the date the Board approved them, there was no
finding of intentional misconduct on the part of senior management or any other Keithley
officer, Director or employee responsible for the administration of the Company s stock option
grants. Notwithstanding the fact that management exceeded its authority under the Company s
plans, the Company will honor the options in accordance with the terms as they were set by
management. 

Based on evidence gathered and analyzed by the Independent Counsel, the Special Committee
found the dates selected by management for the annual grants in 2000-2002 are the appropriate
measurement dates for accounting purposes. Accordingly, it is unnecessary for the Company to
record any compensation expense with respect to the annual option grants in 2000-2002, and
therefore there is no need for the Company to restate its financial statements as a result of
these grants. 

~ 7 ~ 

The Special Committee concluded that there were no material misstatements in the Company s
public filings regarding the number of annual options granted during the years reviewed; there
is no evidence that the Company timed the grant date or pricing of annual stock option grants
to take advantage of material non-public information and there was no wrongdoing or lack of
oversight by the Company s independent directors or the Human Resources and Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Compensation Committee ). 

The Special Committee also reviewed the Company s practices regarding stock option grants,
other than its annual grants, which are generally grants of smaller numbers of options to new
hires and to existing employees for promotions. The Special Committee concluded that
management exceeded certain aspects of the authority granted to management by the Company s
stock option plans and the Compensation Committee, but that these grants involved small
numbers of shares and were largely the result of ministerial errors by management. 

None of the options that were part of the 2000-2002 annual grants have been exercised by any
executive officer of the Company and none of the options are currently  in the money. 

As a result of the investigation, the Company s Compensation Committee has adopted additional procedures for
the granting of equity awards that govern how stock options and other equity awards will be granted
and documented. Among other things, the policy makes it clear that, for annual grants, options must
have an exercise price equal to the closing price of the Common Shares on the date the Committee
approves them unless the Committee specifically establishes another price or method for determining
the price at the time it approves them. The policy also clarifies the extent of any authority
delegated to management to make grants other than annual grants. In addition, the Board of
Directors has initiated a search for a general counsel and chief compliance officer who will, among
other things, have involvement in the Company s equity award process.

As a result of the costs and management time incurred by the Company in connection with the investigation, the Company
has determined that Joseph P. Keithley, the Company s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer, and Mark J. Plush, the Company s Chief Financial Officer, will not receive a
bonus for fiscal 2006, a salary increase for calendar year 2007, or any equity grants prior to the
annual grants expected to be made in November 2007, and that Philip R. Etsler, the Company s Vice
President of Human Resources, will not receive a bonus for fiscal 2006, a salary increase for
calendar year 2007 or any options prior to the time of the annual grants expected to be made in
November 2007, although he is expected to receive performance shares in connection with the 2006
annual grants expected to be made to employees shortly following the filing of this Form 10-K.

Derivative Litigation 

On August 9, 2006 and August 15, 2006, the Company was named as a nominal defendant in two separate
shareholder derivative suits, Nathan Diamond v. Joseph P. Keithley, et al., Cuyahoga County, Ohio,
Court of Common Pleas ( Diamond ) and Michael C. Miller v. Joseph P. Keithley, et al, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio, Court of Common Pleas ( Miller ). Both suits were removed to the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Ohio on September 8, 2006. Miller and Diamond were
consolidated before the Hon. Judge Christopher Boyko. On November 13, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a
consolidated Complaint (the  Consolidated Complaint ).

On October 23, 2006 and October 24, 2006, the Company was named as a nominal defendant in two
additional shareholder derivative lawsuits, Edward P. Hardy v. Joseph P. Keithley, et al., in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio and Mike Marks v. Joseph P.
Keithley, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio.

At a Case Management Conference on December 4, 2006, Judge Christopher A. Boyko of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio orally ordered that the four cases be consolidated into a single action in that court. The Company expects the Judge s written order reflecting this consolidation to be entered shortly. The Consolidated Complaint alleges that various Company officers and/or directors
manipulated the dates on which stock-options were granted by the Company so as to maximize the
value of the stock options or knew or should have known of such manipulation by others. The suits allege numerous claims, including violations of Sections
10(b), 10b(5) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, breaches of fiduciary duties,
aiding and abetting, corporate waste, unjust enrichment and rescission.

Other 

In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to various other legal claims, actions,
complaints and other matters. While the results of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty,
management believes that the final outcome of pending matters known to management will not have a
material adverse impact on the financial position or results of operations of the Company.

ITEM 4   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year
covered by this report.

~ 8 ~ 

PART II 

ITEM 5   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

The Company s Common Shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol KEI. The high and
low prices shown below are sales prices of the Company s Common Shares as reported on the NYSE.
There is no established public trading market for the Class B Common Shares; however, they are
readily convertible on a one-for-one basis into Common Shares.

The approximate number of shareholders of record of Common Shares and Class B Common Shares,
including those shareholders participating in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan, as of December 12,
2006 was 2,266 and 4, respectively.

Equity Compensation Plan Information as of September 30, 2006 

Number of securities remaining  

available for future issuance  

Number of securities to be  
       
      Weighted-average  
       
      under equity compensation  

issued upon exercise of  
       
      exercise price of  
       
      plans (excluding securities  

outstanding options  
       
      outstanding options  
       
      reflected in column (a)  

Plan category  
       
      (a)  
       
      (b)  
       
      (c)  

Equity compensation plans
approved
by security holders

3,297,981 

$ 
     19.65 

1,528,389 
     (1) 

Equity compensation plans not
approved by security holders

Total 

3,297,981  

$  
      19.65  

1,528,389  
      (1)  

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

The following table sets forth, for the months indicated, our purchases of Common Shares in the
fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006:

On December 10, 2003, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved an open market
stock repurchase program (the  2003 program ). Under the terms of the 2003 program, the Company may
purchase up to 2,000,000 Common Shares, which
represented approximately 13 percent of the outstanding shares at the time the program was
announced, over a three-year period ending December 31, 2006. The purpose of the 2003 program is to
offset the dilutive effect of stock compensation and stock purchase plans, and to provide value to
shareholders. Common Shares held in treasury may be reissued in settlement of stock purchases under
the stock option and stock purchase plans.

~ 9 ~ 

ITEM 6   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. 

The following data has been derived from financial statements audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September
30, 2006 and 2005 and the related Consolidated Statements of Operations and of Cash Flows for each
of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006 and notes thereto appear elsewhere in
this Annual Report.

~ 10 ~ 

ITEM 7   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

In Thousands of Dollars except for per share information.

Introduction and Overview 

This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is
intended to provide investors with an understanding of the operating performance and financial
condition of Keithley Instruments, Inc. A discussion of our business, including our strategy for
growth, products and competition, is included in Part I of this Form 10-K.

Business Overview 

Our business is to design, develop, manufacture and market complex electronic instruments and
systems geared to the specialized needs of electronics manufacturers for high-performance
production testing, process monitoring, product development and research. Our primary products are
integrated systems used to source, measure, connect, control or communicate electrical direct
current (DC), radio frequency (RF) or optical signals. Our customers are engineers, technicians and
scientists in manufacturing, product development and research functions. During fiscal 2006,
approximately 35 percent of our orders were received from the semiconductor industry. Approximately
15 percent came from research and education customers. Approximately 10 percent came from the
wireless communications customer group. Approximately 30 percent came from the precision electronic
components and subassembly manufacturers customer group, which includes customers in automotive,
computers and peripherals, medical equipment, aerospace and defense, and manufacturers of
components, including optoelectronic components. The remainder of orders came from customers in a
variety of other industries. Although our products vary in capability, sophistication, use, size
and price, they generally test, measure and analyze electrical, RF, optical or physical properties.
As such, we consider our business to be in a single industry segment.

Many of the industries we serve, including but not limited to the semiconductor industry, the
wireless communications industry, the optoelectronics industry, and precision electronic components
and subassembly manufacturers, have historically been very cyclical and have experienced periodic
downturns. During fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006, we noted improving conditions in the health of our
customers following a downturn in the electronics industry during 2001 through 2003. We continue to
believe that our ability to achieve a higher level of orders in the future will be driven by our
customers  spending patterns as they invest in new capacity or upgrade their lines for their new
product offerings, as well as our ability to gain market share.

Our focus during the past several years has been on building long-term relationships and strong
collaborative partnerships with our global customers to serve their measurement needs. Toward that
end, we have been moving toward employing our own sales personnel to sell our products, as opposed
to selling our products through sales representatives to whom we pay a commission. The change in
our sales channel allows us to build a sales network of focused, highly trained sales engineers who
specialize in measurement expertise and problem-solving for customers and enhances our ability to
sell our products to customers with worldwide operations. We believe our ability to serve our
customers has been aided immeasurably by deploying our own employees throughout the Americas,
Europe and, most recently, Asia. We expect that selling through our own sales force will be
favorable to earnings during times of strong sales and unfavorable during times of depressed sales
as a greater portion of our selling costs are now fixed.

Over the past few years we have incurred costs for the transition to new ERP and CRM software
systems. Implementations that have occurred to date have caused minimal disruptions to our
business; however, we will continue our ERP and CRM technology upgrades in various locations
throughout the world in fiscal 2007 and beyond.

We continue to believe that both the semiconductor and wireless areas are the heart of change
within the electronics industry. These technology changes create many opportunities for us, and the
success we have experienced serving applications for our customers makes these opportunities even
more compelling. We believe new products will drive our future growth. In fiscal 2004, we opened a
west coast development center, the sole focus of which is to develop our new RF product family. RF
measuring is increasingly becoming an important part of our customers  requirements, as they are
incorporating RF technology into their products. During fiscal 2005 and 2006, we further increased
our product development activities to expand our product offering and accelerate the introduction
of new products Additionally, advances in technology require us to enhance our parametric test
platforms to respond to our customers  changing needs. We have chosen to accelerate some
development initiatives to take advantage of opportunities to capture market share and grow our
sales. While we focus on these important initiatives, we cannot stop investing in our precision DC
and current-voltage (I-V) product lines, as they serve the same core set of customers.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Management has identified the Company s  critical accounting policies.  These policies have the
potential to have a more significant impact on our financial statements, either because of the
significance of the financial statement item to which they relate, or because they require judgment
and estimation due to the uncertainty involved in measuring, at a specific point in time, events
which will be settled in the future.

Use of estimates: 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the reported financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.

~ 11 ~ 

Revenue recognition: 

Keithley Instruments, Inc. recognizes product revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement
exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is
reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have been met when title and risk of loss have
transferred to the customer. Upon shipment, a provision is made for estimated costs that may be
incurred for product warranties and sales returns. Revenue earned from service contracts is
recognized ratably over the contractual service periods, and is not material to the Company s
consolidated results. Shipping and handling costs are recorded as Cost of goods sold on the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Inventories: 

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined based on a
currently-adjusted standard, which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. We
periodically review our recorded inventory and estimate a reserve for obsolete or slow-moving
items. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by
management, additional reserves may be required. If actual market conditions are more favorable
than anticipated, our cost of sales will be lower than expected in that period.

Income taxes: 

Keithley is subject to taxation from federal, state and international jurisdictions. The annual
provision for income taxes and the determination of the resulting deferred tax assets and
liabilities involves a significant amount of judgment by management. Judgment also is applied in
determining whether the deferred tax assets will be realized in full or in part. In evaluating our
ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative
evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most
recent fiscal years, and our forecast of future taxable income. In determining future taxable
income, we are responsible for assumptions utilized including the amount of federal, state and
international pretax operating income, the reversal of book versus tax differences, and the
implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require
significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans
and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business.

A valuation allowance against deferred tax assets has been established related to foreign net
operating losses ( NOL s ) and state and local taxes which may not be realized due to the
uncertainty of future profit levels in certain taxing jurisdictions. We intend to maintain this
valuation allowance until sufficient positive evidence exists to support reversal of the valuation
allowance, until such NOL s are utilized or until such NOL s expire. Our income tax expense
(benefit) recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of offsetting decreases in our
valuation allowance. The realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent
upon forecasted future taxable income. Any significant reduction in estimated forecasted future
taxable income may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred
tax assets. An increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in
such period and could have a significant impact on our future earnings. In addition, the
calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of
complex tax regulations in various tax jurisdictions. We recognize potential liabilities for
anticipated tax issues based upon our estimate of whether additional taxes will be due. If payment
of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result
in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer
necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate
assessment, a further charge to income tax expense would result.

Pension plan: 

Retirement benefit plans are a significant cost of doing business representing obligations that
will be ultimately settled far in the future and therefore are subject to estimation. Pension
accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employee s
approximate service period based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions
made by us. We are required to make assumptions regarding such variables as the expected long-term
rate of return on assets and the discount rate applied to determine service cost and interest cost
to arrive at pension income or expense for the year. As the rate of return on plan assets
assumption is a long-term estimate, it can differ materially from the actual return realized on
plan assets in any given year, especially when markets are highly volatile. We have analyzed the
rates of return on assets used and determined that the rates we use are reasonable based on the
plans  historical performance relative to the overall markets in the countries where the plans are
effective, as well as the plans  asset mix between equities and fixed income investments. Assumed
discount rates are used in measurements of the projected and accumulated benefit obligations, and
the service and interest cost components of net periodic pension cost.

The discount rate for the United States Pension Plan was determined as of the June 30, 2006
measurement date by constructing a portfolio of bonds with cash flows from coupon payments and
maturities matching the projected benefit payments under the Plan. Bonds considered in constructing
the model portfolio are rated AA- or higher by Standard   Poor s. Callable bonds were excluded from
consideration. The longest maturity of any bond included in the data is August 15, 2036. Benefit
payments beyond 2036 were discounted back to this year using interest rates based on the Citigroup
Pension Discount Curve Comparison to Above Median as of June 30, 2006. The matching bond portfolio
produces coupon income in excess of what is needed to meet early period benefit payments. The
excess coupon income is accumulated with interest, based on the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve
Comparison to Above Median as of June 30, 2006, until such time as it is used to pay benefits.

The discount rate used in determining the recorded liability for our U.S. pension plan was 6.625%
for 2006, compared to 5.50% for 2005 and 6.50% for 2004. The increase in the rate for 2006 was
primarily due to higher interest rates on long-term, highly rated corporate bonds.

Actual rate of return on U.S. plan assets was 9.1% for 2006 compared to an expected rate of return
of 8.25%. A 0.25% increase (decrease) in the expected rate of return would have produced an $88
decrease (increase) in 2006 expense.

~ 12 ~ 

Management will continue to assess the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and
discount rate assumptions for both the U.S. plan and non-U.S. plan based on relevant market
conditions as prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and will make
adjustments to the assumptions as appropriate. Pension income or expense is allocated to Cost of
goods sold, Selling, general and administrative expenses, and Product development expenses in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.

At the end of the 2006 fiscal year, the U.S. pension plan s funded status reflected $4,593 of
unrecognized actuarial loss, including $165 in experience gain that will not be subject to
recognition in determining 2007 expense. The excluded portion is due to differences between
expected and actual investment returns on the current measurement date and the preceding three
measurement dates. Such gains are made subject to recognition at a rate of 20% per year until fully
included. The remaining loss of $4,758, which is due to changes in data, assumption changes
(including discount rate) and previously recognized asset gains or losses, is subject to
recognition based on the 10% corridor method. Any amount falling outside of the 10% corridor is
divided by the average future working lifetime of active participants (which is 15.14 years for
fiscal year 2007) to determine the amount recognized in 2007 expense.

Stock compensation plans: 

With the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on October 1, 2005, the Company is required to record the fair
value of stock-based compensation awards as an expense. In order to determine the fair value of
stock options on the date of grant, the Company applies the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Inherent in this model are assumptions related to expected stock-price volatility, option life,
risk-free interest rate and dividend yield. While risk-free interest rate and dividend yield are
less subjective assumptions, typically based on factual data derived from public sources, the
expected stock-price volatility and option life assumptions require a greater level of judgment
which makes them critical accounting estimates. We use a weighted-average expected stock-price
volatility assumption that is a combination of both observed historical volatility of Keithley s
stock price and the volatility implied in the prices of recent exchange-traded options based on
Keithley s stock. For stock options granted during the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we used
an expected volatility factor of 45%. With regard to the weighted-average expected option life
assumption, we consider the exercise behavior of past grants to model expected future patterns.
Patterns are determined by examining behavior of the aggregate pool of
optionees, including the reactions to vesting, realizable value, long-run exercise propensity,
pent-up demand, stock run-up effect and short-time-to-maturity effect. For stock options granted
during the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we used a weighted-average expected option life
assumption of 4.5 years. There were no stock options granted during the remainder of fiscal year
2006. We also are required to estimate an expected forfeiture rate when recognizing compensation
cost. We used an 8% forfeiture rate for all options currently subject to expense based upon our
past history of actual forfeitures. We believe that the critical estimates described above are
based on outcomes that are reasonably likely to occur.

Results of Operations 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data included in Item 8 of this Annual Report.

Percent of net sales for the years ended September 30:

Net income for fiscal year 2006 was $8,361, or $0.50 per diluted share. This includes approximately
$1,495, or $0.09 per diluted share, for stock-based compensation expense. Net income for 2005 was
$10,128, or $0.61 per diluted share, and $11,381, or $0.69 per share, for 2004.

Net sales were a record $155,212 in 2006 compared with $141,552 in 2005, and $140,248 in 2004. Net
sales increased 10% in 2006 and one percent in 2005. The effect of currency exchange rates was
negligible on sales growth. Throughout the past three years we noted improving conditions in the
strength of our customers and the electronics industry as a whole. The sales growth in 2006 was
primarily due to higher sales to our semiconductor customers for our parametric testers and our
Model 4200 Semiconductor Characterization System. Geographically, sales were up 19% in the
Americas, down two percent in Asia, and up 15% in Europe during 2006. During 2005, sales were down
eight percent in the Americas, up 21% in Asia, and down nine percent in Europe.

Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net sales was 38.7%, 39.3% and 38.9% in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. The decrease as a percentage of sales in 2006 over 2005 was due to spreading fixed
manufacturing costs over higher sales volume, offset somewhat by higher salaries and benefits and a
less favorable geographic mix. The increase as a percentage of sales in 2005 from 2004 was due to
higher sales discounts, which raises cost

~ 13 ~ 

of goods sold as a percentage of net sales, higher other manufacturing costs due to our 2005
investment in the manufacturing design engineering organization, and higher manufacturing
variances, partially offset by a favorable product mix in 2005. Foreign exchange hedging had a
minimal effect on cost of goods sold in 2006, 2005 and 2004.

Selling, general and administrative expenses of $63,554 increased 13% in 2006 from $56,177 in 2005,
and increased one percent in 2005 from $55,533 in 2004. Selling, general and administrative
expenses as a percentage of net sales were 40.9%, 39.7% and 39.6%, in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. The increase in 2006 over 2005 was primarily due to higher salaries, benefits and
commissions, $1,868 higher stock-based compensation expense, higher costs for our new Southeast
Asia sales offices, and approximately $775 for legal and other costs related to the stock option
investigation and shareholder lawsuits. This was partially offset by a four percent stronger U.S.
dollar. The increase in 2005 over 2004 was due primarily to higher costs related to Sarbanes-Oxley
compliance, higher salaries and fringe benefits and higher costs outside the U.S. due to a four
percent weaker dollar, offset by lower incentive costs tied to financial performance.

Product development expenses of $23,671 increased 39% from $17,040 in 2005, and increased 13% in
2005 from $15,017 in 2004. Product development expenses as a percentage of net sales were 15.3%,
12.0% and 10.7%, in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increases in 2006 and 2005 were
primarily due to higher personnel-related costs, project consultants expenses, and development
supplies for our continued investment in the development of new products including our RF and
semiconductor product families.

Interest income was $1,972 in 2006, $1,383 in 2005 and $540 in 2004. Higher interest rates and
higher average cash and short-term investment balances accounted for the increases in 2006 and
2005. Interest expense was $9 in 2006, $64 in 2005 and $92 in 2004.

The tax rate for fiscal 2006 was 15.7% compared to 28.1% in 2005 and 26.8% in 2004. The effective
tax rate for 2006 was less than the U.S. statutory rate due to the utilization of a foreign tax
credit carryforward that previously had a valuation allowance against it, the release of the
valuation allowance on the remainder of the foreign tax credit carryforward and tax benefits from
extraterritorial income exclusion on U.S. exports. These benefits were partially mitigated by state
and local income taxes and earnings of certain subsidiaries being taxed at a rate greater than the
U.S. statutory tax rate. The effective tax rate for 2005 was less than the U.S. Statutory rate as a
result of extraterritorial income exclusion benefits, R D credit utilization and changes in state
deferred taxes. The 2004 rate was below the statutory rate due mainly to the extraterritorial
income exclusion benefit and R D credit utilization. (See Note I).

Our financial results are affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Generally, a weakening
U.S. dollar versus foreign currency favorably impacts our foreign currency denominated sales. A
strengthening U.S. dollar has an unfavorable effect. This foreign exchange effect cannot be
precisely isolated since many other factors affect our foreign sales and earnings. These factors
include product offerings and pricing policies of Keithley and our competition, whether competition
is foreign or U.S. based, changes in technology, product and customer mix, and local and worldwide
economic conditions.

We utilize hedging techniques designed to mitigate the short-term effect of exchange rate
fluctuations on operations and balance sheet positions by entering into foreign exchange forward
contracts. We do not speculate in foreign currencies or derivative financial instruments, and
hedging techniques do not increase our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations.

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Working Capital 

The following table summarizes working capital as of September 30, 2006 and 2005:

~ 14 ~ 

Working capital was essentially the same in fiscal 2006 compared to 2005. Current assets increased
by $555 as increases in accounts receivable and inventories were partially offset by decreases in
cash and short-term investments. The $7,384 increase in accounts receivable was primarily the
result of higher sales during the month of September this year compared to last year, as well as
higher days sales outstanding at September 30, 2006 of 53 days versus September 30, 2005 of 46
days. The higher sales were driven by customer request dates. The increase in inventory is due
mainly to higher demo inventory due to the numerous new product introductions this past year, as
well as higher work-in-process inventory for our RF products and parametric testers. Inventory
turns were 4.6 at September 30, 2006, versus 4.4 at September 30, 2005. Current liabilities
increased $449 during the period due mainly to higher short-term debt levels primarily in the UK
and Japan to fund their local operations, and higher accrued payroll and related expenses due to
higher commissions and other incentives tied to sales levels, partially offset by lower income
taxes payable due to tax payments made primarily in Germany and lower reserves in certain
jurisdictions.

Sources and Uses of Cash 

The following table is a summary of our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows:

Operating activities. Cash provided by operating activities was $5,985 and $10,543 for fiscal years
2006 and 2005, respectively. Cash from operating activities is net income adjusted for certain
non-cash expenses and changes in assets and liabilities.

In fiscal year 2006, cash from operations resulted primarily from net income and the positive
impact of non-cash expenses for depreciation, deferred income taxes and stock-based compensation.
This was partially offset by increases in accounts receivable and inventories described above, and
by contributing $2,500 to our U.S. pension plan. See Note G. Cash from operations was greater in
fiscal 2005 than in 2006 due primarily to higher net income, changes in working capital described
above, and $3,313 of excess tax benefits for employee stock purchase and option plans. SFAS No.
123(R) resulted in a change to the statement of cash flows beginning October 1, 2005, in that cash
retained as a result of excess tax benefits relating to share-based payments to employees, as well
as non-employees, is presented in the statement of cash flows as a financing cash inflow.
Previously, the cash retained from excess tax benefits was presented in operating cash flows. The
excess tax benefit recognized during fiscal year 2006 was approximately $266 and is now reported in
financing activities per the provisions of SFAS 123(R).

Investing activities. Cash used in investing activities was $4,182 and $12,786 in fiscal year 2006
and 2005, respectively. Cash flows from investing activities consist primarily of the purchase and
sale of investments and purchases of property, plant and equipment. Capital spending was $4,910 in
2006 versus $3,768 in 2005. The increase was due mainly to purchasing equipment used in the
development of new products to expand our product offering and accelerate the introduction of new
products, and to purchase manufacturing equipment to upgrade our manufacturing floor and build our
new products. We purchased $31,665 of short-term investments in 2006 versus $38,194 last year,
while sales of short-term investments generated $36,393 in cash in 2006, compared to $29,176 in
2005. Short-term investments totaled $36,203 at September 30, 2006 as compared to $40,869 at the
same time last year. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we spent $4,000 to invest in a
private company, $1,250 in the form of non-marketable common stock and $2,750 in the form of
subordinated debt. This investment is included in the  Other assets  caption of the Consolidated
Balance Sheet at September 30, 2006. See Note D.

Financing activities. Cash used for financing activities in 2006 was $5,861 versus cash generated
of $93 in 2005. During 2006, we repurchased $5,027 of our Common Shares, but did not repurchase any
during 2005. See Note C. Additionally, the proceeds from employee stock purchase and option plans
was $428 in 2006 and $2,921 in 2005. During fiscal 2005, there were two purchases made under the
employee stock purchase plan with contributions totaling $2,435. The plan was amended during 2006
to eliminate the look-back feature and lower the discount from 15 percent to 5 percent. These
changes made the plan non-compensatory under SFAS 123(R). As a result, participation for the 2006
fiscal year was much lower than in 2005. Enrollment for the 2007 plan year is comparable to
participation in 2006. We borrowed $865 in the form of short-term debt during fiscal 2006 versus
repaying $439 in 2005. The borrowings in 2006 are primarily in the UK and Japan to fund their
local operations

The Company s credit agreement, which expires March 31, 2009, is a $10,000 debt facility ($0
outstanding at September 30, 2006) that provides unsecured, multi-currency revolving credit at
various interest rates based on Prime or LIBOR. We are required to pay a facility fee of 0.125% on
the total amount of the commitment. Additionally, the Company has a number of other credit
facilities in various currencies and for standby letters of credit aggregating $5,000 ($872 of
short-term debt and $392 for standby letters of credit at September 30, 2006.)

At September 30, 2006, we had total unused lines of credit with domestic and foreign banks
aggregating $13,736 of which $10,000 was long-term and $3,736 was a combination of long-term and
short-term depending upon the nature of the indebtedness. See Note E. Under certain provisions of
the debt agreements, we are required to comply with various financial ratios and covenants. We were
in compliance with all such debt covenants, as amended, at September 30, 2006 and during each of
the three years then ended.

Our current stock repurchase program expires on December 31, 2006. Under the current program we may
repurchase up to an additional 1,594,500 Common Shares through December 31, 2006. See Note C.

During 2007, we expect to finance capital spending, working capital requirements and the stock
repurchase program with cash and short-term investments on hand and cash provided by operations.
Capital expenditures in fiscal 2007 are expected to approximate $5,000 to $6,000.

~ 15 ~ 

Set forth below is a table of information with respect to the Company s contractual obligations as
of September 30, 2006:

(a) 
       
     Includes amounts due under a deferred compensation agreement with a retired executive. Amounts
exclude additional interest that will be earned from September 30, 2007 through the time of
payment. Other executives and directors are included in this plan; however, as retirement dates are
uncertain, they are excluded from the above table. 

(b) 
       
     The obligation related to pension benefits is actuarially determined and is reflective of
obligations as of September 30, 2006. The Company made a 2006 pension contribution of $2,500 in
fiscal 2006, and as such does not have a required contribution due in fiscal 2007. We are not able
to reasonably estimate our future required contributions beyond 2006 due to uncertainties regarding
significant assumptions involved in estimating future required contributions to our defined benefit
pension plans, including interest rate levels, the amount and timing of asset returns; what, if
any, changes may occur in legislation; and how contributions in excess of the minimum requirements
could impact the amounts and timing of future contributions. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, ( FASB ), issued SFAS No. 123 (Revised
2004),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No. 123(R) ). This new pronouncement requires compensation cost
relating to share-based payment transactions to be recognized in financial statements. That cost is
to be measured based on the fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. SFAS No.
123(R) covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including stock options,
restricted stock plans, performance-based awards, stock appreciation rights, and employee stock
purchase plans. SFAS No. 123(R) replaces SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation ,
and superseded the Company s previous accounting under APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees.  In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 107,  Share-Based Payment,  which expresses the views of the Staff regarding the
adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). In April 2005, the effective date to apply the provisions of the
pronouncement was postponed for public entities to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005.

We adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method
beginning October 1, 2005, the first day of the first quarter of fiscal 2006. In accordance with
that transition method, we have not restated prior periods for the effect of compensation expense
calculated under SFAS No. 123(R). In calculating diluted earnings per share, we have elected to use the actual
method for calculating windfall tax benefits or shortfalls for fully and partially vested options
in arriving at the assumed proceeds in the treasury stock calculation. The adoption of SFAS No.
123(R) also requires additional accounting related to income taxes and earnings per share as well
as additional disclosure related to the cash flow effects resulting from share-based compensation.
The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements for
fiscal year 2006, and is expected to continue to materially impact our financial statements in the
foreseeable future. See Note H for more information on the impact of the new standard.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) FAS No. 123 (R)-3,  Transition
Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards  ( FSP FAS
123(R)-3 ). FSP FAS 123(R)-3 provides a practical exception when a company transitions to the
accounting requirements in SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) requires a company to calculate the
pool of excess tax benefits available to absorb tax deficiencies recognized subsequent to adopting
SFAS No. 123(R) (termed the  APIC Pool ), assuming the company had been following the recognition
provisions prescribed by FAS 123. We have elected to use the guidance in FSP FAS 123(R)-3 to
calculate our APIC Pool. FSP FAS 123(R)-3 is effective immediately. The adoption of the FSP did not
have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4.  SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to
clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and
wasted material (spoilage). The Company adopted this Statement effective October 1, 2005, and it
did not have a material effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements.

In June 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 . SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary
changes in accounting principle, and changes the requirements for accounting for and reporting of a
change in accounting principle. SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods 
financial statements of a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is impracticable. APB
20 previously required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized with a
cumulative effect adjustment in net income of the period of the change. This statement changes the
requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a

~ 16 ~ 

change in accounting principle. This statement is effective for accounting changes and corrections
of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. As such, the pronouncement is
effective beginning with the Company s 2007 fiscal year although early application is allowed.

In
November 2005, the FASB issued FSP Nos. FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1,  The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments,  to give guidance on
determining when investments in certain debt and equity securities are considered impaired, whether
that impairment is other than temporary, and on measuring such impairment loss. This FSP also
includes accounting considerations subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary
impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been recognized
as other-than-temporary impairments. FSP Nos. FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1 began to apply to reporting
periods beginning after December 15, 2005. This FSP did not have a material effect on the Company s
consolidated financial statements.

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments, 
which amends SFAS 133  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  and SFAS 140
 Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. 
SFAS 155 simplifies the accounting for certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments
by allowing them to be accounted for as a whole if the holder elects to account for the whole
instrument on a fair value basis. SFAS 155 also clarifies and amends certain other provisions of
SFAS 133 and SFAS 140. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued or
subject to a remeasurement event occurring in fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006.
Earlier adoption is permitted, provided the company has not yet issued financial statements,
including for interim periods, for that fiscal year. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 155 to
have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In July 2006, the FASB issued  FASB Interpretation No. 48 ( FIN 48 ), Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement 109.  FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold
and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position
taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. It also provides guidance on de-recognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition.
FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, although early adoption is
encouraged. We are in the process of determining the impact of FIN No. 48 on our consolidated
financial statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS 157 defines fair
value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting
principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement applies under
other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements, the Board having
previously concluded in those accounting pronouncements that fair value is the relevant measurement
attribute. Accordingly, this Statement does not require any new fair value measurements. However,
for some entities, the application of this Statement will change current practice. This Statement
is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007,
and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of
this Statement on its financial statements.

In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 108 regarding the process
of quantifying financial statement misstatements. SAB No. 108 states that registrants should use
both a balance sheet approach and an income statement approach when quantifying and evaluating the
materiality of a misstatement. The interpretations in SAB No. 108 contain guidance on correcting
errors under the dual approach as well as provide transition guidance for correcting errors. This
interpretation does not change the requirements within SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error
Corrections a replacement of APB No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3,  for the correction of an error
on financial statements. SAB No. 108 is effective for annual financial statements covering the
first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006. Management is currently evaluating the
requirements of SAB No. 108 and has not yet determined the impact on the consolidated financial
statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, (SFAS No. 158), an amendment
of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R).  SFAS No. 158 represents the completion of the first
phase in the FASB s postretirement benefits accounting project and requires an employer that is a
business entity and sponsors one or more single employer benefit plans to (1) recognize the over
funded or under funded status of the benefit plan in its statement of financial position, (2)
recognize as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior
service costs of credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as components of net
periodic benefit cost, (3) measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the end of the
employer s fiscal year, and (4) disclose in the notes to financial statements additional
information about certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for the next fiscal year that arise
from delayed recognition of the gains or losses, prior service costs or credits, and transition
asset or obligation. The provisions of SFAS No. 158 are effective as of September 30, 2007, except
for the measurement date provisions, which are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15,
2008. Based on the funded status of the Company s pension plans as of September 30, 2006, the
adoption of SFAS 158 would reduce total stockholders  equity by $6,109 on a pretax basis. By the
time of adoption at September 30, 2007, plan performance and actuarial assumptions could have a
significant impact on the actual amounts recorded.

ITEM 7A   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

The Company is exposed to a variety of risks, including foreign currency fluctuations, interest
rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of its short-term investments. In the normal
course of business, we employ established policies and procedures to manage our exposure to
fluctuations in foreign currency values and interest rates.

The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily through transactions
denominated in foreign currencies. We currently utilize foreign exchange forward contracts or
option contracts to sell foreign currencies to fix the exchange rates related to near-term sales
and effectively fix our margins. Generally, these contracts have maturities of three months or
less. Our policy is to only enter into derivative transactions when we have an identifiable
exposure to risk, thus not creating additional foreign currency exchange rate risk. In our opinion,
a 10 percent adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material effect on
these instruments nor therefore, on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

~ 17 ~ 

The Company maintains a short-term investment portfolio consisting of United States government
backed notes and bonds and corporate notes and bonds. An increase in interest rates would decrease
the value of certain of these investments. However, in management s opinion, a 10 percent increase
in interest rates would not have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position
or cash flows. 

 The Company also had an interest rate swap instrument originally entered into to
mitigate the risk of interest rate changes related to long-term debt. The agreement effectively
fixed the interest rate on a notional $3,000 of variable rate debt; however, the interest rate swap
instrument was determined to be an ineffective hedge and accordingly, changes in the fair market
value of the interest rate swap were recorded in the Company s records as income or expense. The
instrument expired September 19, 2005.

ITEM 8   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Keithley Instruments, Inc.

We have completed integrated audits of Keithley Instruments, Inc. s 2006 and 2005 consolidated
financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006
and 2005, and an audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on
our audits, are presented below.

Consolidated Financial Statements 

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated
statements of operations, shareholders  equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Keithley Instruments, Inc. and its subsidiaries at September
30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended September 30, 2006, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note H to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in
which it accounts for share-based compensation in fiscal 2006.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Also, in our opinion, management s assessment, included in Management s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the Company maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 based on criteria established in Internal
Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria.
Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in
Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the COSO. The
Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on management s assessment and on the effectiveness of
the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit
of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial
reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness
of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Cleveland, Ohio 
December 28, 2006

~ 18 ~ 

Consolidated Statements of Operations 

For the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (In Thousands of Dollars Except for Per Share
Data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

~ 19 ~ 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

As of September 30, 2006 and 2005 (In Thousands of Dollars Except for Share Data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

~ 20 ~ 

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity 

For the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (In Thousands of Dollars)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

~ 21 ~ 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

For the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (In Thousands of Dollars)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

~ 22 ~ 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(In Thousands of Dollars Except for Per-Share Data)

Note A   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Principles of consolidation 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Keithley Instruments, Inc. and its
subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated.

Nature of operations 

Keithley s business is to design, develop, manufacture and market complex electronic instruments
and systems to serve the specialized needs of electronics manufacturers for high-performance
production testing, process monitoring, product development and research. Our primary products are
integrated systems used to source, measure, connect, control or communicate electrical DC, RF or
optical signals. Although our products vary in capability, sophistication, use, size and price,
they generally test, measure and analyze electrical, RF, optical or physical properties. As such,
we consider our business to be in a single industry segment.

Revenue recognition 

Keithley Instruments, Inc. recognizes product revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement
exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is
reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have been met when title and risk of loss have
transferred to the customer. Upon shipment, a provision is made for estimated costs that may be
incurred for product warranties and sales returns. Revenue earned from service is recognized
ratably over the contractual service periods, and is not material to the Company s consolidated
results.

Foreign currency translation 

Our revenues, costs and expenses, and assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign
currency exchange rates as a result of our global operations. For those subsidiaries that operate
in a local functional currency environment, all assets and liabilities are translated into U.S.
dollars using current exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated using weighted
average exchange rates in effect during the period. Resulting translation adjustments are reported
as a separate component of accumulated comprehensive income in shareholders  equity. For those
entities that operate in a U.S. dollar functional currency environment, foreign currency assets and
liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates. Gains or losses from
foreign currency remeasurement are generally immaterial and are included in the  Selling, general
and administrative expenses  caption of the consolidated statements of operations.

Advertising 

Advertising production and placement costs are expensed when incurred. Advertising expenses were
$7,983, $7,358 and $7,223 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Product development expenses 

Expenditures for product development are charged to expense as incurred. These expenses include the
cost of computer software, an integral part of certain products. The Company s policy is to expense
all software development costs because of the short time frame between technological feasibility
and commercialization. In addition, based upon the rapid change in technology, the amortization
periods for any capitalized costs would be relatively short. However, the Company continually
reviews the materiality and financial statement classification of computer software expenditures in
accordance with SFAS No. 86,  Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed. 

Cash and cash equivalents 

The Company considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when
purchased to be cash equivalents. Cash flows resulting from hedging transactions are classified in
the same category as the cash flows from the item being hedged.

Accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts 

Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. The
allowance for doubtful accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our
existing accounts receivable. We determine the allowance based on historical write-off experience
by industry and regional economic data. We review our allowance for doubtful accounts periodically
and all account balances are reviewed for collectibility. Account balances are charged off against
the allowance when we feel it is probable the receivable will not be recovered. We do not have any
off-balance sheet credit exposure related to our customers. The changes in the allowance for
doubtful accounts for fiscal years ending September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:

~ 23 ~ 

Inventories 

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined based on a
currently-adjusted standard, which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. The
Company provides inventory allowances based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily
by future demand forecasts. The allowance is measured as the difference between the cost of the
inventory and market based upon assumptions about future demand and charged to the provision for
inventory, which is a component of cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new,
lower-cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and
circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.

Property, plant and equipment 

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is provided over periods
approximating the estimated useful lives of the assets. Substantially all manufacturing, laboratory
and office equipment is depreciated by the double declining balance method over periods of 3 to 10
years. Buildings are depreciated by the straight-line method over periods of 23 to 45 years.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the asset lives or the terms of the
leases. Depreciation expense was $4,194, $4,081 and $4,010 in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Capitalized software 

Certain internal and external costs incurred to acquire or create internal use software are
capitalized in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position 98-1,  Accounting for the Costs of
Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.  Capitalized software is included in
property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over 3 to 5 years after it is placed in service.

Impairment of long-lived assets 

Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate costs may not
be recoverable. Impairment exists when the carrying value of the assets is greater than the pretax
undiscounted future cash flows expected to be provided by the asset. If impairment exists, the
asset is written down to its fair value. Fair value is determined through quoted market values or
through the calculation of the pretax present value of future cash flows expected to be provided by
the asset.

Capital stock 

The Company has two classes of stock. Each Class B Common Share has ten times the voting power of a
Common Share, but the Class B Common Shares are entitled to cash dividends of no more than 80% of
the cash dividends on the Common Shares. Holders of Common Shares, voting as a class, elect
one-fourth of the Company s Board of Directors and participate with holders of Class B Common
Shares in electing the balance of the Directors and in voting on all other corporate matters
requiring shareholder approval. Additional Class B Common Shares may be issued only to holders of
such shares for stock dividends or stock splits. These shares are convertible at any time to Common
Shares on a one-for-one basis.

The number of Common Shares, Class B Common Shares and Common Shares held in treasury is shown
below:

~ 24 ~ 

Accumulated other comprehensive income 

The components of accumulated other comprehensive income at September 30, 2006 and 2005 are as
follows:

Income taxes 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized under the liability method based upon the
difference between the amounts reported for financial reporting and tax purposes. These deferred
taxes are measured by applying current enacted tax rates. Valuation allowances are established when
necessary to reflect the estimated amount of deferred tax assets that may not be realized based
upon the Company s analysis of estimated future taxable income and establishment of tax strategies.
Future taxable income, the results of tax strategies and changes in tax laws could impact these
estimates. We have provided for estimated United States and foreign withholding taxes, less
available tax credits, for the undistributed earnings of the non-United States subsidiaries as of
September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004.

Use of estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions. These
estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the reported financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Examples include the allowance for
doubtful accounts, estimates of contingent liabilities, inventory valuation, pension plan
assumptions, estimates and assumptions relating to stock-based compensation costs, and the
assessment of the valuation of deferred income taxes and income tax reserves. Actual results could
differ from those estimates.

Earnings per share, including pro forma effects of stock-based compensation 

Both Common Shares and Class B Common Shares are included in calculating earnings per share. The
weighted average number of shares outstanding used in the calculation is set forth below:

Prior to the Company s adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company elected to account for stock awards
issued to employees according to APB Opinion 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  and its
related interpretations. Under APB No. 25, no compensation expense was recognized in the Company s
consolidated financial statements for employee stock awards except in certain cases when stock
awards were granted below the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.
Alternatively, under the fair value method of accounting provided for under SFAS No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  and SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation   Transition and Disclosure   an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123,  the measurement
of compensation expense was based on the fair value of employee stock options or purchase rights at
the grant or right date and required the use of option pricing models to value the options.

The following table illustrates the effect on net earnings per share as if the fair value method
had been applied to all outstanding awards for fiscal year 2005 and 2004:

~ 25 ~ 

Derivatives and Hedging Activities 

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities  (as amended), all of the Company s derivative instruments are recognized on the
balance sheet at their fair value. To hedge sales, the Company currently utilizes foreign exchange
forward contracts or option contracts to sell foreign currencies to fix the exchange rates related
to near-term sales and effectively fix the Company s margins. Underlying hedged transactions are
recorded at hedged rates, therefore realized and unrealized gains and losses are recorded when the
hedged transactions occur. The Company also had an interest rate swap instrument that expired
September 19, 2005. The estimated fair value of the swap instrument was determined through quotes
from the related financial institutions. See Note F.

On the date the derivative contract is entered into, the Company designates its derivative as
either a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability ( fair value  hedge), as a
hedge of the variability of cash flows to be received ( cash flow  hedge), or as a foreign-currency
cash flow hedge ( foreign currency  hedge). Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is
highly effective as, and that is designated and qualifies as, a fair value hedge, along with the
gain or loss on the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk are recorded
in current period earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and
that is designed and qualifies as a cash flow hedge are recorded in other comprehensive income
until earnings are affected by the transaction in the underlying asset. Changes in the fair value
of derivatives that are highly effective and that qualify as foreign currency hedges are recorded
in either current period income or other comprehensive income, depending on whether the hedge
transaction is a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge. At September 30, 2006, the foreign exchange
forward contracts were designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges. Prior to its expiration,
the interest rate swap instrument was determined to be an ineffective hedge and accordingly,
changes in its fair market value were recorded in the Company s records as income or expense in the
interest expense line item in the consolidated statements of operations. The Company recorded
income of $120 and $163 in 2005 and 2004, respectively, for the interest rate swap fair market
value.

The Company documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as
its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Company
also assesses whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in
offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items. When it is determined that a derivative is not
highly effective as a hedge, the Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. Cash flows
resulting from hedging transactions are classified in the consolidated statements of cash flows in
the same category as the cash flows from the item being hedged.

Reclassifications 

Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year financial statements and the notes to
conform to the current year presentation.

Recent accounting pronouncements 

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, ( FASB ), issued SFAS No. 123 (Revised
2004),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No. 123(R) ). This new pronouncement requires compensation cost
relating to share-based payment transactions to be recognized in financial statements. That cost is
to be measured based on the fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. SFAS No.
123(R) covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including stock options,
restricted stock plans, performance-based awards, stock appreciation rights, and employee stock
purchase plans. SFAS No. 123(R) replaces SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation ,
and superseded the Company s previous accounting under APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees.  In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 107,  Share-Based Payment,  which expresses the views of the Staff regarding the
adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). In April 2005, the effective date to apply the provisions of the
pronouncement was postponed for public entities to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005.

We adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method
beginning October 1, 2005, the first day of the first quarter of fiscal 2006. In accordance with
that transition method, we have not restated prior periods for the effect of compensation expense
calculated under SFAS No. 123(R). In calculating diluted earnings per share, we have elected to use
the actual method for calculating windfall tax benefits or shortfalls for fully and partially
vested options in arriving at the assumed proceeds in the treasury stock calculation. The adoption
of SFAS No. 123(R) also requires additional accounting related to income taxes and earnings per
share as well as additional disclosure related to the cash flow effects resulting from share-based
compensation. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) had a material impact on our consolidated financial
statements for fiscal year 2006, and is expected to continue to materially impact our financial
statements in the foreseeable future. See Note H for more information on the impact of the new
standard.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) FAS No. 123 (R)-3,  Transition
Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards  ( FSP FAS
123(R)-3 ). FSP FAS 123(R)-3 provides a practical exception when a company transitions to the
accounting requirements in SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) requires a company to calculate the
pool of excess tax benefits available to absorb tax deficiencies recognized subsequent to adopting
SFAS No. 123(R) (termed the  APIC Pool ), assuming the company had been following the recognition
provisions prescribed by FAS 123. We have elected to use the guidance in FSP FAS 123(R)-3 to
calculate our APIC Pool. FSP FAS 123(R)-3 is effective immediately. The adoption of the FSP did not
have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4.  SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to
clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and
wasted material (spoilage). The Company adopted this Statement effective October 1, 2005, and it
did not have a material effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements.

In June 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 . SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary
changes in accounting principle, and changes the requirements for accounting for and

~ 26 ~ 

reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior
periods  financial statements of a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is
impracticable. APB 20 previously required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be
recognized with a cumulative effect adjustment in net income of the period of the change. This
statement changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting
principle. This statement is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. As such, the pronouncement is effective beginning
with the Company s 2007 fiscal year although early
application is allowed.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP Nos. FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1,  The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments,  to give guidance on
determining when investments in certain debt and equity securities are considered impaired, whether
that impairment is other than temporary, and on measuring such impairment loss. This FSP also
includes accounting considerations subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary
impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been recognized
as other-than-temporary impairments. FSP Nos. FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1 began to apply to reporting
periods beginning after December 15, 2005. This FSP did not have a material effect on the Company s
consolidated financial statements.

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments, 
which amends SFAS 133  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  and SFAS 140
 Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. 
SFAS 155 simplifies the accounting for certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments
by allowing them to be accounted for as a whole if the holder elects to account for the whole
instrument on a fair value basis. SFAS 155 also clarifies and amends certain other provisions of
SFAS 133 and SFAS 140. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued or
subject to a remeasurement event occurring in fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006.
Earlier adoption is permitted, provided the company has not yet issued financial statements,
including for interim periods, for that fiscal year. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 155 to
have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In July 2006, the FASB issued  FASB Interpretation No. 48 ( FIN 48 ), Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement 109.  FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold
and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position
taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. It also provides guidance on de-recognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition.
FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, although early adoption is
encouraged. We are in the process of determining the impact of FIN No. 48 on our consolidated
financial statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS 157 defines fair
value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting
principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement applies under
other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements, the Board having
previously concluded in those accounting pronouncements that fair value is the relevant measurement
attribute. Accordingly, this Statement does not require any new fair value measurements. However,
for some entities, the application of this Statement will change current practice. This Statement
is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007,
and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of
this Statement on its financial statements.

In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 108 regarding the process
of quantifying financial statement misstatements. SAB No. 108 states that registrants should use
both a balance sheet approach and an income statement approach when quantifying and evaluating the
materiality of a misstatement. The interpretations in SAB No. 108 contain guidance on correcting
errors under the dual approach as well as provide transition guidance for correcting errors. This
interpretation does not change the requirements within SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error
Corrections a replacement of APB No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3,  for the correction of an error
on financial statements. SAB No. 108 is effective for annual financial statements covering the
first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006. Management is currently evaluating the
requirements of SAB No. 108 and has not yet determined the impact on the consolidated financial
statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, (SFAS No. 158), an amendment
of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R).  SFAS No. 158 represents the completion of the first
phase in the FASB s postretirement benefits accounting project and requires an employer that is a
business entity and sponsors one or more single employer benefit plans to (1) recognize the over
funded or under
funded status of the benefit plan in its statement of financial position, (2) recognize as a
component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs of
credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit
cost, (3) measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the end of the employer s
fiscal year, and (4) disclose in the notes to financial statements additional information about
certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for the next fiscal year that arise from delayed
recognition of the gains or losses, prior service costs or credits, and transition asset or
obligation. The provisions of SFAS No. 158 are effective as of September 30, 2007, except for the
measurement date provisions, which are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008.
Based on the funded status of the Company s pension plans as of September 30, 2006, the adoption of
SFAS 158 would reduce total stockholders  equity by $6,109 on a pretax basis. By the time of
adoption at September 30, 2007, plan performance and actuarial assumptions could have a significant
impact on the actual amounts recorded.

~ 27 ~ 

Note B   Guarantor s Disclosure Requirements 

Guarantee of original lease: 

The Company has assigned the lease of its former office space in Reading, Great Britain to a third
party. In the event the third party defaults on the monthly lease payments, the Company would be
responsible for the payments until the lease expires on July 14, 2009. If the third party were to
default, the maximum amount of future payments (undiscounted) the Company would be required to make
under the guarantee would be approximately $601 through July 14, 2009. The Company has not recorded
any liability for this item, as it does not believe that it is probable that the third party will
default on the lease payments.

Product warranties: 

Generally, the Company s products are covered under a one-year warranty; however, certain products
are covered under a two or three-year warranty. It is the Company s policy to accrue for all
product warranties based upon historical in-warranty repair data. In addition, the Company accrues
for specifically identified product performance issues. The Company also offers extended warranties
for certain of its products for which revenue is recognized over the life of the contract period.
The costs associated with servicing the extended warranties are expensed as incurred. The revenue,
as well as the costs related to the extended warranties, is immaterial for fiscal years 2006 and
2005.

A reconciliation of the estimated changes in the aggregated product warranty liability for fiscal
year 2006 and 2005 is as follows:

Note C   Repurchase of Common Shares 

On December 10, 2003, the Company announced its Board of Directors had approved an open market
stock repurchase program (the  2003 program ). Under the terms of the 2003 program, the Company may
purchase up to 2,000,000 Common Shares, which represented approximately 13 percent of shares
outstanding at the time the program was approved, over a three-year period ending December 31,
2006. The purpose of the 2003 program is to offset the dilutive effect of stock option and stock
purchase plans, and to provide value to shareholders. Common Shares held in treasury may be
reissued in settlement of
stock purchases under these plans. The 2003 program replaces the prior program, which expired in
December 2003 and had substantially the same terms as the 2003 program.

The following table summarizes the Company s stock repurchase activity:

2006 

Total number of shares purchased

405,500 

Average price paid per share (including commissions)

$ 
     12.40 

Identity of broker-dealer used to effect the purchases

National Financial Securities LLC  

Number of shares purchased as part of a publicly announced repurchase program

405,500 

Maximum number of shares that remain to be purchased under the program

1,594,500 

At September 30, 2006, all the Common Shares purchased under the Company s share repurchase
programs remained in treasury. There were no Common Share repurchases under the Company s share
repurchase programs during fiscal year 2005 or 2004, and there were no Common Shares in treasury at
September 30, 2005 or 2004 pursuant to these programs.

Also, included in the  Common shares held in treasury, at cost  caption of the Consolidated Balance
Sheets are shares repurchased to settle non-employee Directors  fees deferred pursuant to the
Keithley Instruments, Inc. 1996 Outside Directors Deferred Stock Plan. Shares held in treasury
pursuant to this plan totaled 146,125 and 137,418 at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Note D   Short-term Investments 

The Company classifies its short-term investments as  available-for-sale,  which requires they be
recorded at fair market value with the resulting gains and losses included in  Accumulated other
comprehensive income  on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. There were no sales of
marketable securities in fiscal year 2006 or 2005. Gross realized losses of $129 were recognized on
sales of marketable securities in fiscal year 2004 using the specific identification method.

~ 28 ~ 

Short-term investments at September 30, 2006 were comprised of the following:

Short-term investments at September 30, 2005 were comprised of the following:

At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the securities, notes and bonds have maturity dates as follows:

Our short-term investments consist primarily of high quality debt securities, therefore unrealized
losses are largely driven by increased market interest rates. These unrealized losses were not
significant on an individual investment security basis, and no impairment relating to short-term
investments was considered to be other-than-temporary. The $154 and $221 of unrealized losses for
U.S. government and agency securities at September 30, 2006 and 2005 relate to investments with a
fair market value of approximately $16,404 and $23,419, respectively. The $154 unrealized losses at
September 30, 2006 relate to investments that have been in a continuous loss position for more than
12 months.

The caption,  Other assets,  on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets includes the following
long-term cost method investments at September 30, 2006 and 2005:

The note receivable bears interest at a rate of 8.65% compounded annually. The note, including
interest, becomes payable on demand on or after September 21, 2016.

The Company reviews its investments for other-than-temporary impairment whenever the fair value of
an investment is less than amortized cost and evidence indicates that an investment s carrying
value is not recoverable within a reasonable period of time. In the evaluation of whether an
impairment is other-than-temporary, the Company considers its ability and intent to hold the
investment until the market price recovers, the reasons for the impairment, compliance with the
Company s investment policy, the severity and duration of the impairment and expected future
performance. Based on this evaluation, the Company recorded impairment losses of $153 during fiscal
year 2006. No impairment losses were recorded in fiscal year 2005 or 2004.

Note E   Financing Arrangements 

On March 30, 2005, the Company amended its credit agreement to extend the term to March 31, 2008
from March 31, 2005. On March 29, 2006, the Company extended the term of its credit agreement to
March 31, 2009 from March 31, 2008. The agreement is a $10,000 debt facility ($0 outstanding at
September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively) that provides unsecured, multi-currency revolving credit
at various interest rates based on Prime or LIBOR. The three-month LIBOR interest rate was 5.4% and
4.1% at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company is required to pay a facility fee of
0.125% on the total amount of the commitment. The agreement may be extended annually. Additionally,
the Company has a number of other credit facilities in various currencies and for standby letters
of credit aggregating $5,000 ($872 of short-term debt and $392 for standby letters of credit at
September 30, 2006, and $617 for standby letters of credit outstanding at September 30, 2005). The
weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings was 3.0% at September 30, 2006. The Company
had total unused lines of credit with domestic and foreign banks aggregating $13,736, of which
$10,000 was long-term and $3,736 was a combination of long-term and short-term depending upon the
nature of the indebtedness at September 30, 2006.

Under certain provisions of the debt agreements, the Company is required to comply with various
financial ratios and covenants. The Company was in compliance with all such debt covenants, as
amended, during each of the three years ended and at September 30, 2006.

The Company had an interest rate swap agreement with a commercial bank to effectively fix its
interest rate on $3,000 of variable rate debt. The agreement effectively fixed the interest rate on
a notional $3,000 of variable LIBOR rate debt at 6.4%. The agreement expired September 19, 2005.

~ 29 ~ 

Note F   Foreign Currency 

The functional currency for the Company s foreign subsidiaries is the applicable local currency.
Income and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars at average exchange rates for the period.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the rates in effect at the end of the period. Translation
gains and losses are recognized in the accumulated other comprehensive income component of
shareholders  equity.

Certain transactions of the Company and its foreign subsidiaries are denominated in currencies
other than the functional currency. The Consolidated Statements of Operations include (losses)
gains from such foreign exchange transactions of ($54), $12 and $132 for 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

At September 30, 2006, the Company had obligations under foreign exchange forward contracts to sell
2,550,000 Euros, 525,000 British pounds and 270,000,000 Yen at various dates through December 2006.
In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 133 (as amended), the foreign exchange forward contracts
are recorded on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the fair
market value of the contracts represented an asset to the Company of $104 and $99, respectively.

Note G   Employee Benefit Plans 

The Company has a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan covering all of its eligible
employees in the United States and a contributory defined plan covering certain non-U.S. employees.
Pension benefits are based upon the employee s length of service and a percentage of compensation.
A summary of the components of net periodic pension cost based on a measurement date of June 30 for
the U.S. plan and the non-U.S. plan is shown below:

The following table sets forth the funded status of the
Company s plans at September 30, 2006 and 2005:

~ 30 ~  

Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2006 and
2005, consist of the following:

* The Company has purchased indirect insurance of $4,885 which is expected to be available to the
Company as non-U.S. pension liabilities of $5,092 mature. The caption,  Other assets,  on the
Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets includes $4,885 and $4,425 at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
respectively, for this asset. In accordance with SFAS No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for Pensions, 
this Company asset is not included in the non-U.S. plan assets.

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans was $36,556 and $38,545 at
September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the Company s accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair
value of plan assets for the non-U.S. plan. The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit
obligation and fair value of plan assets for the non-U.S. Plan at September 30, 2006 were $7,135,
$6,380, and $1,219, respectively. The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation
and fair value of plan assets
for the non-U.S. Plan at September 30, 2005 were $6,379, $5,681, and $1,092, respectively.

As of the measurement date, the plan assets  allocation for the United States plan by asset
category was as follows:

The United States Plan investment strategy is to emphasize total return, which is defined as the
aggregate return from capital appreciation, dividends, and interest income. In determining the
asset classes in which the Plan will invest, as well as the target weightings to each asset class,
the Company gives consideration to several factors. These include historical risk and return
statistics for each asset class and the statistical relationships between the asset classes. The
Company also has recognized certain aspects specific to the Plan including the current funding
status, the average age of employee participants, and the ability of the Company to make future
contributions to the Plan.

Non-U.S. plan assets represent employee and Company contributions and are invested in an insurance
company in a direct insurance contract payable to the individual participants. The insurance
company directs the investments for this contract.

The significant actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at September 30, 2006
and 2005 were as follows:

The significant actuarial assumptions used to determine net pension expense for fiscal years
2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

~ 31 ~  

In determining its expected long-term rate-of-return-on-asset assumption for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2006, the Company considered historical experience, its asset allocation, expected
future long-term rates of return for each major asset class, an assumed long-term inflation rate,
and an asset performance simulator.

Expected future benefit payments for both the United States and the non-U.S. plans are as follows:

The Company expects to contribute approximately $2,000 to $3,000 to its pension plans in fiscal
year 2007 subject to analyzing the impact of SFAS 158 and the Pension Protection Act of 2006.

In addition to the defined benefit pension plan, the Company also maintains a retirement plan for
all of its eligible employees in the United States under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue
Code. It has been the Company s practice to match a minimum of 25 percent of the first six percent
of a participants  contribution, and may match up to 50 percent of the first six percent of a
participants contribution depending upon the Company s financial performance, as part of its profit
sharing program. Expense for the 401(k) plan amounted to $724, $900 and $831 in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. In addition to the extra 25 percent match in the 401(k) plan, the Company may
contribute additional profit sharing to all eligible worldwide employees. U.S. employee
participants, at their discretion, may opt for a cash payout or may defer the bonus into the 401(k)
plan. Non-U.S. employees receive a cash payout. Expense related to the additional profit sharing
program amounted to $0, $0 and $248 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The Company also has an unfunded supplemental executive retirement plan (SERP) for former key
employees which includes retirement, death and disability benefits. Expense recognized for these
benefits was $10, $9, and $9 for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Liabilities of $8 and $8 were
accrued in the  Accrued payroll and related expenses  caption on the Company s Consolidated Balance
Sheets, and $141 and $152 were accrued in the  Other long-term liabilities  caption to meet all
SERP obligations at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Note H   Stock Plans 

Stock Option Plans 

Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), which requires the use of the fair
value method for accounting for all stock-based compensation. The statement was adopted using the
modified prospective method of application. Under this method, compensation cost is recognized for
share-based awards issued after the effective date of SFAS No. 123(R) and for the remaining vesting
periods of awards that had been included in proforma expense in prior periods adjusted for
estimated forfeitures.

During the second and third quarters of fiscal 2005, the Company s Board of Directors and Executive
Committee of the Board of Directors authorized the acceleration of the vesting of certain unvested
and  out-of-the-money  stock options. These options, outstanding as of January 31, 2005 and August
9, 2005, had exercise prices of $17.00 or higher and $16.00 or higher, respectively. As a result of
the acceleration, the Company reduced stock option expense it otherwise would have been required to
record under SFAS No. 123(R) by approximately $2,200 in fiscal 2006, and expects to reduce expense
in fiscal 2007 and 2008 by approximately $2,000 and $900 on a pretax basis, respectively.

On February 16, 2002, the Company s shareholders approved the Keithley Instruments, Inc. 2002 Stock
Incentive Plan. Under the terms of this plan, 3,000,000 Common Shares were reserved for the
granting of equity-based awards to directors, officers and other key employees. This plan will
expire on February 16, 2012. Under the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, 5,400,000 of the Company s Common
Shares were reserved for the granting of options to officers and other key employees. After
February 8, 2002, no new grants could be issued from this plan. All options outstanding at the time
of termination of either plan shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with their
terms. The Compensation and Human Resources
Committee of the Board of Directors administers the plans. Incentive stock options granted under
the plans cannot be granted with an exercise price less than the fair market price at the date of
the grant with an exercise period not to exceed ten years. Such grants generally become exercisable
over a four year period. The option price under nonqualified stock options is determined by the
Committee based upon the date the option is granted. Both plans also provide for restricted stock
awards and stock appreciation rights. At September 30, 2006, 956,680 shares were registered and
available for the granting of equity-based awards to directors, officers and other key employees.

Beginning in fiscal 2006, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors
recommended, and the Board of Directors approved certain changes in relation to stock-based
compensation. Specifically, the Company began to use performance award units and restricted award
units to provide long-term compensation to key employees in addition to non-qualified stock
options, which it had used in the past.

During fiscal 2006, the Company recorded stock-based compensation expense of approximately $2,240
pretax, or approximately $0.09 per share after taxes. In arriving at the amount of recorded
expense, we estimate that eight percent of the total awards granted will be forfeited prior to
their vesting. During fiscal years 2005 and 2004 we recorded ($5) and $45 of pretax stock-based
compensation (income) expense, respectively. No assumed forfeiture rate was applied to the amount
recorded prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).

~ 32 ~  

SFAS No. 123(R) resulted in a change to the statement of cash flows beginning October 1, 2005, in
that cash retained as a result of excess tax benefits relating to share-based payments to
employees, as well as non-employees, would be presented in the statement of cash flows as a
financing cash inflow. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the cash retained from excess tax
benefits was presented in operating cash flows. The excess tax benefit recognized during fiscal
year 2006, 2005 and 2004 was approximately $266, $3,313 and $798, respectively.

As of September 30, 2006, there was $2,460 of total pretax unrecognized compensation cost related
to nonvested awards. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.3
years.

Stock Option Activity

On October 3, 2005, the Company granted non-qualified stock options of 165,651 shares to officers
and other key employees. These awards have a term of ten years, vest fifty percent after two years,
and an additional twenty five percent after each of years three and four. The options have an
exercise price equal to the $15.05 market value of the shares as of the October 3, 2005 grant date.

Activity under all option plans was as follows:

The options outstanding at September 30, 2006 have been segregated into ranges for additional disclosure as follows:

~ 33 ~  

The weighted-average fair values at date of grant for options granted during fiscal years 2006,
2005 and 2004 were $5.93, $4.60, and $8.10, respectively. The fair value of options at the date of
grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:

The risk-free interest rate and dividend yield were obtained from published sources based upon
factual data. In order to determine the expected life, we considered the exercise behavior of past
grants to model expected future patterns. Patterns were determined by examining behavior of the
aggregate pool of optionees, including the reactions to vesting, realizable value, long-run
exercise propensity, pent-up demand, stock run-up effect and short-time-to-maturity effect. The
weighted-average expected stock-price volatility assumptions were determined primarily based upon
observed historical volatility of Keithley s stock price, as well as the volatility implied in the
prices of recent exchange-traded options.

Performance Award Units 

Beginning in fiscal 2006, the Company began granting performance award units to officers and other
key
employees. The performance award unit agreements provide for the award of performance units with
each unit representing the right to receive one of the Company s Common Shares to be issued after
the applicable award period. The award period for performance award units issued in fiscal 2006
will end on September 30, 2008. The final number of units earned pursuant to an award may range
from a minimum of no units to a maximum of twice the initial award, and may be adjusted in 50
percent increments. The number of units earned will be based on the Company s revenue growth
relative to a defined peer group, and the Company s return on assets or return on invested capital.
Each reporting period, the compensation cost of the performance award units is subject to
adjustment based upon our estimate of the number awards we expect will be issued upon the
completion of the performance period.

Following is activity for fiscal 2006 related to performance awards:

Restricted Award Units 

Beginning in fiscal 2006, the Company began granting restricted award units to key employees. The
restricted unit award agreements provide for the award of restricted units with each unit
representing one share of the Company s Common Shares. The awards generally will vest on the fourth
anniversary of the award date, subject to certain conditions specified in the agreement.

Following is activity for fiscal 2006 related to restricted awards:

Directors Equity Plans 

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company s non-employee Directors had received annual
stock option grants issued pursuant the 1997 Directors  Stock
Option Plan or the 1992 Directors 
Stock Option Plan. These grants are included in the stock option activity above. The Company s
Board of Directors terminated these plans on December 8, 2005 and February 15, 1997, respectively.
Beginning October 1, 2005, the non-employee Director annual stock option grant was replaced with an
annual Common Share grant equal to $58. The Common Shares will be issued on a quarterly basis out
of the Keithley Instruments, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. During fiscal 2006, we recorded $507
of expense for the issuance of 35,695 shares issued pursuant to this program based upon the fair
market value of the shares at the date of grant. The Board of Directors also may issue restricted
stock grants worth $75 to new non-employee Directors at the time of his or her election. These
restricted stock grants will vest over a 3-year
period. One such grant was issued on February 13, 2006 for 5,098 shares based upon the fair market
value at the date of grant of $14.71 per share.

~ 34 ~  

Employee Stock Purchase Plan 

On February 5, 1994, the Company s shareholders approved the 1993 Employee Stock Purchase and
Dividend Reinvestment Plan. The plan offers eligible employees the opportunity to acquire the
Company s Common Shares at a discount and without transaction costs. Eligible employees can only
participate in the plan on a year-to-year basis, must enroll prior to the commencement of each plan
year, and in the case of U.S. employees, must authorize monthly payroll deductions. Non-U.S.
employees submit their contribution at the end of the plan year. The purchase price of the Common
Shares was 85 percent of the lower of the market price at the beginning or ending of the calendar
plan year. A mid-year enrollment option was also available for new employees. The purchase price
for the mid-year enrollees was 85 percent of the lower of the market price at the beginning of the
mid-year period or ending of the calendar plan year. A total of 1,500,000 Common Shares were
reserved for purchase under the plan, of which 81,119 remained available at September 30, 2006.
During fiscal year 2005, the plan was amended to require at least one subscription period each and
every 12 months during the term of the plan, however, the Board of Directors or the Chief Financial
Officer, as its delegatee, may establish multiple subscription periods with variable durations.
Accordingly, the subscription period starting January 1, 2005 ended on June 30, 2005. In July 2005,
January 2005, and January 2004, 65,266, 101,253 and 135,412 shares were purchased by employees
under this plan at a price of $13.10, $15.61 and $10.63 per share, respectively.

On February 11, 2006, the Company s shareholders approved the 2005 Employee Stock Purchase and
Dividend Reinvestment Plan, the  2005 Plan.  The provisions contained in the 2005 Plan are similar
to those of the 1993 Employee Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan; however, the lookback
feature for determining the purchase price has been eliminated and the purchase price will be equal
to 95 percent of the market price at the end of the subscription period. The provisions contained
in the 2005 Plan eliminate the measurement of compensation expense required by SFAS No. 123(R). The
2005 Plan subscription period that began on July 1, 2005 ended on June 30, 2006. In July 2006,
9,410 shares were purchased by employees under this plan at a price of $12.09 per share. A total of
500,000 Common Shares were reserved for purchase under the 2005 Plan, of which 490,590 remain
available for purchase at September 30, 2006.

Note I   Income Taxes 

For financial reporting purposes, income before income taxes includes the following components:

The provision for income
taxes is as follows:

Differences between the statutory United States federal income tax and the effective income tax rates are as follows:

~ 35 ~  

Significant components of the Company s deferred tax assets and
liabilities as of September 30, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:

The valuation allowance relates to net operating losses which may not
be realized due to the uncertainty of future profit levels in certain taxing jurisdictions.

The changes in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for
fiscal years ending September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:

(a) 
       
     The valuation allowance relates to provision for foreign tax credits and certain
foreign net operating losses which may not be realized due to the uncertainty of future
profitability levels. Approximately $190 of the valuation allowance recorded in fiscal
2004 was recorded as a reduction of shareholders  equity as foreign tax credits generated
in the current year could not be utilized due to the benefit of nonqualified stock
options. 

(b) 
       
     The valuation allowance against the foreign tax credits was released due to the
current year utilization of credits and the Company s increased capacity to utilize
credits prior to the expiration period. 

At September 30, 2006, the Company had tax credit carryforwards and foreign net operating loss
carryforwards (tax effected) as follows:

The Company recorded credits of $646, $352 and $3,721 to additional paid-in-capital during the
years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, in connection with the tax benefit
related to deductions for stock-based compensation programs.

The calculation of the Company s provision for income taxes involves the interpretation of complex
tax laws and regulations. Tax benefits for certain items are not recognized, unless it is probable
that the Company s position will be sustained if challenged by tax authorities. Tax liabilities for
other items are recognized for anticipated tax contingencies based on the Company s estimate of
whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due.

~ 36 ~ 

Note J   Severance Charges 

During fiscal 2003, the Company recorded severance charges relating to a reduction in force of 23
individuals, or less than 5 percent of the worldwide work force. At September 30, 2005, no
liability remained on the balance sheet for severance charges.

A reconciliation of the changes in the aggregated accrued severance liability for fiscal year 2005
is as follows:

Note K   Commitments and Contingencies 

Leases 

The Company leases certain office and manufacturing facilities and office equipment under operating
leases. Rent expense under operating leases (net of sublease income of $146 in 2006, $184 in 2005
and $160 in 2004) was $2,716, $2,289 and $2,117 for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Future
minimum lease payments under operating leases are:

Stock
option matters 

As previously announced, the Company s management initiated an internal review of its stock option
practices in light of concerns raised at other companies. Following that internal review, in August
2006 the Company s Board of Directors formed a Special Committee of independent directors to
investigate the Company s stock option practices since the beginning of the fiscal year ended
September 30, 1995. The Committee retained Jones Day as its independent counsel to assist it in the
investigation (the  Independent Counsel ).

Following appointment of the Special Committee, the Company voluntarily notified the staff of the
SEC of the Special Committee investigation. In September 2006, the Company received notice that the
SEC was conducting an inquiry into the Company s option grant practices. The SEC s inquiry is
ongoing and the Company continues to cooperate with the SEC staff.

The Special Committee s findings, which have been adopted by the Board of Directors, are as
follows:

There was no evidence of  backdating  annual stock option grants prior to the date of
approval by the Board of Directors. 

There was a multi-day delay by management in setting the exercise price for annual
stock option grants in 2000, 2001 and 2002. The delay resulted in the options having a
lower exercise price than the price on the date of Board approval. In each of these three
years, the price selected by management was the lowest price for the Company s common shares for the period between Board approval and the administrative recording of the
grants. 

Although the Special Committee determined that the terms of the Company s stock
incentive plans required the options to be priced on the date the Board approved them,
there was no finding of intentional misconduct on the part of senior management or any
other Keithley officer, Director or employee responsible for the administration of the Company s stock option grants.
Notwithstanding the fact that management exceeded its authority under the Company s
plans, the Company will honor the options in accordance with the terms as they were set by
management. 

Based on evidence gathered and analyzed by the Independent Counsel, the Special
Committee found the dates selected by management for the annual grants in 2000-2002 are
the appropriate measurement dates for accounting purposes. Accordingly, it is unnecessary
for the Company to record any compensation expense with respect to the annual option
grants in 2000-2002, and therefore there is no need for the Company to restate its
financial statements as a result of these grants. 

The Special Committee concluded that there were no material misstatements in the
Company s public filings regarding the number of annual options granted during the years
reviewed; there is no evidence that the Company timed the grant date or pricing of annual
stock option grants to take advantage of material non-public information and there was no
wrongdoing or lack of oversight by the Company s independent directors or the Human
Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Compensation
Committee ). 

The Special Committee also reviewed the Company s practices regarding stock option
grants, other than its annual grants, which are generally grants of smaller numbers of
options to new hires and to existing employees for promotions. The Special Committee
concluded that management exceeded certain aspects of the authority granted to management
by the Company s stock option plans and the Compensation Committee, but that these grants
involved small numbers of shares and were largely the result of ministerial errors by
management. 

~ 37 ~ 

None of the options that were part of the 2000-2002 annual grants have been exercised by any
executive officer of the Company and none of the options are currently  in the money. 

As a result of the investigation, the Company s Compensation Committee has adopted additional procedures for
the granting of equity awards that govern how stock options and other equity awards will be granted
and documented. Among other things, the policy makes it clear that, for annual grants, options must
have an exercise price equal to the closing price of the Common Shares on the date the Committee
approves them unless the Committee specifically establishes another price or method for determining
the price at the time it approves them. The policy also clarifies the extent of any authority
delegated to management to make grants other than annual grants. In addition, the Board of
Directors has initiated a search for a general counsel and chief compliance officer who will, among
other things, have involvement in the Company s equity award process.

As a result of the costs and management time incurred by the Company in connection with the investigation, the Company
has determined that Joseph P. Keithley, the Company s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer, and Mark J. Plush, the Company s Chief Financial Officer, will not receive a
bonus for fiscal 2006, a salary increase for calendar year 2007, or any equity grants prior to the
annual grants expected to be made in November 2007, and that Philip R. Etsler, the Company s Vice
President of Human Resources, will not receive a bonus for fiscal 2006, a salary increase for
calendar year 2007 or any options prior to the time of the annual grants expected to be made in
November 2007, although he is expected to receive performance shares in connection with the 2006
annual grants expected to be made to employees shortly following the filing of this Form 10-K.

On August 9, 2006 and August 15, 2006, the Company was named as a nominal defendant in two separate
shareholder derivative suits, Nathan Diamond v. Joseph P. Keithley, et al., Cuyahoga County, Ohio,
Court of Common Pleas ( Diamond ) and Michael C. Miller v. Joseph P. Keithley, et al, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio, Court of Common Pleas ( Miller ). Both suits were removed to the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Ohio on September 8, 2006. Miller and Diamond were consolidated before
the Hon. Judge Christopher Boyko. On November 13, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated
Complaint (the  Consolidated Complaint ).

On October 23, 2006 and October 24, 2006, the Company was named as a nominal defendant in two
additional shareholder derivative lawsuits, Edward P. Hardy v. Joseph P. Keithley, et al., in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio and Mike Marks v. Joseph P.
Keithley, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio.

At a Case Management Conference on December 4, 2006, Judge Christopher A. Boyko of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio orally ordered that the four cases be consolidated into a single action in that court. The Company expects the Judge s written order reflecting this consolidation to be entered shortly. The Consolidated Complaint alleges that various Company officers and/or directors
manipulated the dates on which stock-options were granted by the Company so as to maximize the
value of the stock options or knew or should have known of such manipulation by others. The suits allege numerous claims, including violations of Sections
10(b), 10b(5) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, breaches of fiduciary duties,
aiding and abetting, corporate waste, unjust enrichment and rescission.

In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to various other legal claims, actions,
complaints and other matters. While the results of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty,
management believes that the final outcome of pending matters known to management will not have a
material adverse impact on the financial position or results of operations of the Company.

Note L   Segment and Geographic Information 

The Company s business is to develop test and measurement-based solutions to verify customers 
product performance or aid in their product development process. The Company s customers are
engineers, technicians and scientists in manufacturing, product development and research functions
within a range of industries. Although the Company s products vary in capability, sophistication,
use, size and price, they basically test, measure and analyze electrical and physical properties,
and in some cases RF or light. As such, the Company s management has determined that the Company
operates in a single industry segment. The operations by geographic area are presented below. The
basis for attributing revenues from external customers to a geographic area is the location of the
customer.

~ 38 ~ 

Note M   Subsequent Event 

Effective December 8, 2006, Congress passed the  Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006.  This act
retroactively extended the research tax credit through December 31, 2007. The research tax credit
has
(expired as of December 31, 2005. Accordingly, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, we
expect to record a tax benefit of approximately $882 associated with retroactive application from
January 1 through September 30, 2006.

Unaudited Quarterly Results of Operations 

Following are the Company s unaudited quarterly results of operations for fiscal 2006 and 2005. 

ITEM 9   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

None.

ITEM 9A   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

The Company has evaluated, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the design and operation of the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures as of September 30, 2006 pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer have concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in
ensuring that information required to be disclosed in the reports it files or submits under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in
the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms, and that information was accumulated and
communicated to the Company s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. Under the supervision and with the participation of
our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the
framework in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based upon the evaluation, management has
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30,
2006.

Our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their report dated December 28, 2006 included under Item 8.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

~ 39 ~ 

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the Company s most
recent quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.

Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer Certifications 

The certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required under
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have been filed as Exhibits 31(a) and 31(b) to this report.
Additionally, in March 2006, our Chief Executive Officer filed with the New York Stock Exchange
( NYSE ) the annual certification required to be furnished to the NYSE pursuant to Section 303A.12
of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. The certification confirmed that our Chief Executive Officer was
not aware of any violation by the Company of the NYSE s corporate governance listing standards.

ITEM 9B   OTHER INFORMATION 

None.

PART III 

ITEM 10   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

Information concerning the Company s directors, its audit committee, code of ethics, and compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act will be included in the Company s Proxy Statement for the
2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is incorporated herein by
reference.

The information required with respect to the executive officers of the Company is included under
the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report and
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

See the caption  Executive Compensation and Related Information  in the Company s Proxy Statement
to be used in conjunction with the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, which section is incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 12   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT 

See the caption  Principal Shareholders  in the Company s Proxy Statement to be used in conjunction
with the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which section is
incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 13   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

None.

ITEM 14   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

See the caption  Audit Fees  in the Company s Proxy Statement to be used in conjunction with the
February 10, 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which section is
incorporated herein by this reference.

PART IV 

ITEM 15   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a)(1) Financial Statements 

Our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto are included in Item 8 of this Annual
Report.

(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules 

The following additional information should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial
Statements described in Item 15(a)(1): Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because
they are not required or not applicable, or because the information is furnished elsewhere in the
consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.

~ 40 ~ 

(a)(3) Index to Exhibits 

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  

3(a)

Code of Regulations, as amended on February 9, 1985.
(Reference is made to Exhibit 3(a) of the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2002
(File No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is incorporated herein by
reference.) 

3(b)

Amended Articles of Incorporation, as amended on February 17,
2001. (Reference is made to Exhibit 3(c) of the Company s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
March 31, 2001 (File No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is
incorporated herein by reference.) 

4(a)

Specimen Share Certificate for the Common Shares, without par
value. (Reference is made to Exhibit 4(a) of the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30,
1999 (File No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is incorporated herein
by reference.) 

10(a)*

Keithley Instruments, Inc. Supplemental Deferral Plan as
amended. (Reference is made to Exhibit 10(b) of the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30,
1999 (File No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is incorporated herein
by reference.) 

10(b)*

Employment Agreement with Mark J. Plush dated April 7, 1994.
(Reference is made to Exhibit 10(k) of the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1998
(File No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is incorporated herein by
reference.) 

10(c)*

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. (Reference is made to
Exhibit 10(e) of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended September 30, 1999 (File No. 1-9965), which
Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.) 

10 (d)*

1992 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended. (Reference is made to
Exhibit 10(f) of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended September 30, 1999 (File No. 1-9965), which
Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.) 

10 (e)*

1992 Directors  Stock Option Plan. (Reference is made to
Exhibit 10(g) of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended September 30, 1999 (File No. 1-9965), which
Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.) 

10 (f)

Credit Agreement dated as of March 30, 2001 by and among
Keithley Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiary Borrowers and the
Lenders and Bank One, NA, as agent. (Reference is made to
Exhibit 10(l) of the Company s Quarterly Report on form 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2001 (File No. 1-9965) which
Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.) 

10 (g)*

1996 Outside Directors Deferred Stock Plan. (Reference is
made to Exhibit 10(x) of the Company s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1996 (File
No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is incorporated herein by
reference.) 

10 (h)*

1997 Directors  Stock Option Plan, adopted in February 1997.
(Reference is made to Exhibit 10(z) of the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30,
1997 (File No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is incorporated herein
by reference.) 

10 (i)

First Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated August 1, 2002.
(Reference is made to Exhibit 10(j) of the Company s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter year ended June
30, 2002 (File No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is incorporated
herein by reference.) 

10 (j)*

Keithley Instruments, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan.
(Reference is made to Exhibit 4(b) of the Company s
Registration Statement under The Securities Act of 1933 dated
May 13, 2002 on Form S-8 (File No. 333-88088), which Exhibit
is incorporated herein by reference.) 

10 (k)

Second Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated March 28, 2003.
(Reference is made to Exhibit 10(l) of the Company s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2003 (File No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is incorporated herein
by reference.) 

10 (l)

Third Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated March 30, 2004.
(Reference is made to Exhibit 10(m) of the Company s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2004 (File No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is incorporated herein
by reference.) 

10 (m)

Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated March 30, 2005.
(Reference is made to Exhibit 10(n) of the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated March 30, 2005 (File No. 1-9965),
which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.) 

10 (n)*

Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into by the Company
and each of Brian R. Bachman, James T. Bartlett, James B.
Griswold, Leon J. Hendrix, Jr., William Hudson, Joseph P.
Keithley, Dr. N. Mohan Reddy, Barbara Scherer and R. Elton
White, as members of the Company s Board of Directors on
December 2, 2004. (Reference is made to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 2, 2004
(File No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is incorporated herein by
reference.) 

10 (o)*

Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into by the Company
and each of Philip R. Etsler, Mark J. Plush and Linda C. Rae,
as executive officers of the Company, on December 2, 2004.
(Reference is made to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated December 2, 2004 (File No. 1-9965),
which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.) 

10 (p)*

Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into by the Company
and Brian J. Jackman, as a member of the Company s Board of
Directors On May 5, 2005. (Reference is made to Exhibit 10.1
of the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 2,
2004 (File No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is incorporated herein
by reference.) 

10 (q)*

Keithley Instruments, Inc. 2005 Employee Stock Purchase and
Dividend Reinvestment Plan. (Reference is made to Appendix B
of the Company s Definitive Proxy Statement dated December
29, 2005 (File No. 1-9965), which is incorporated herein by
reference.) 

10 (r)

Fifth Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated September 27, 2006. 

10 (s)*

Keithley Instruments, Inc. form of option agreement for the
use in connection with awards granted under the Keithley
Instruments, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. (Reference is
made to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company s Current Report on Form
8-K dated October 3, 2005 (File No. 1-9965), which Exhibit is
incorporated herein by reference.) 

10 (t)*

Keithley Instruments, Inc. form of performance award
agreement for use in connection with awards granted under the
Keithley Instruments, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan.
(Reference is made to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated October 3, 2005 (File No. 1-9965),
which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.) 

~ 41 ~ 

* 
       
     Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

The certifications furnished pursuant to this item will not be deemed  filed  for
purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78r), or otherwise subject to the
liability of that section. Such certification will not be deemed to be incorporated by
reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the
extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference. 

(c) Exhibits 

See  Index to Exhibits  at Item 15(a)(3) above.

(d) Financial Statement Schedules 

Schedules required to be filed in response to this portion are listed above in Item 15(a)(2).

~ 42 ~ 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

Keithley Instruments, Inc. 
(Registrant)

By: /s/ Joseph P. Keithley

Joseph P. Keithley, (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer) 

Date: December 28, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities on the date indicated.

~ 43 ~ 

<EX-10.R>
 2
 l23663bexv10wr.htm
 EX-10.R

EX-10.R 

Exhibit 10(r) 

FIFTH AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT 

THIS FIFTH AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of September 27, 2006 (this  Amendment ),
is among KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS, INC., an Ohio corporation (the  Company ), Subsidiary Borrowers
(referred to below and collectively with the Company, the  Borrowers ), the Lender (as referred to
below) and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., a national banking association, successor by merger with Bank
One, NA, (Main Office Columbus), as Agent for the Lender (in such capacity the  Agent ).

RECITALS 

A. The Company, certain Subsidiary Borrowers party thereto, the Lender party thereto and
Agent are parties to a Credit Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2001, as amended by a First
Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of August 1, 2002, as amended by a Second Amendment to
Credit Agreement dated as of March 28, 2003, as amended by a Third Amendment to Credit Agreement
dated as of March 30, 2004 and as amended by a Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of
March 30, 2005 (as now and hereafter amended, the  Credit Agreement ), pursuant to which the Lender
agreed, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to extend credit to the Borrowers.

B. The Borrowers desire to amend the Credit Agreement and the Agent and the Lender are willing
to do so strictly in accordance with the terms hereof.

TERMS 

In consideration of the premises and of the mutual agreements herein contained, the parties
agree as follows:

1. ARTICLE 1. 
 AMENDMENTS 

Upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in Article 3 hereof, the Credit
Agreement shall be amended as follows:

1.1 Section 6.16.2 shall be amended and restated to read as follows:

6.16.2.  EBDA minus Distributions and Liquid Assets . In the event the
amount of EBDA minus Distributions is a negative number, the Company will not permit
(i) EBDA minus Distributions plus non-recurring expenses plus non-cash compensation
expense, calculated in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles as of the
last day of each fiscal quarter for the four consecutive fiscal quarters then
ending, to exceed 10% of Consolidated Liquid Assets, and (ii) EBDA minus
Distributions plus non-recurring expenses plus non-cash compensation expense,
calculated in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles as of the last day of
each fiscal quarter for the fiscal quarter then ending and annualized, to exceed 15%
of Consolidated Liquid Assets. In the event the amount of EBDA minus Distributions
is a positive number, this covenant will be inapplicable.

ARTICLE 2. 
 REPRESENTATIONS 

Each Borrower represents and warrants to the Agent and the Lender that:

2.1 The execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment is within its powers, has been
duly authorized and is not in contravention with any law, of the terms of its Articles of
Incorporation or By-laws, or any undertaking to which it is a party or by which it is bound.

2.2 This Amendment is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable
against it in accordance with the terms hereof.

2.3 After giving effect to the amendments herein contained, the representations and warranties
contained in Article V of the Credit Agreement are true on and as of September 27, 2006 with the
same force and effect as if made on and as of September 27, 2006.

2.4 No Default or Unmatured Default exists or has occurred and is continuing on the date
hereof.

3. ARTICLE 3. 
 CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS 

This Amendment shall not become effective until each of the following has been
satisfied:

3.1 This Amendment shall be signed by each Borrower, the Agent and the Lender.

4. ARTICLE 4. 
 MISCELLANEOUS .

4.1 References in the Credit Agreement or in any note, certificate, instrument or other
document to the  Credit Agreement  shall be deemed to be references to the Credit Agreement as
amended hereby and as further amended from time to time.

4.2 The Company agrees to pay and to save the Agent harmless for the payment of all costs and
expenses arising in connection with this Amendment, including the reasonable fees of counsel to the
Agent in connection with preparing this Amendment and the related documents.

4.3 Each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that the Agent and the Lender have fully performed
all of their obligations under all documents executed in connection with the Credit Agreement and
all actions taken by the Agent and the Lender are reasonable and appropriate under the
circumstances and within their rights under the Credit Agreement and all other documents executed
in connection therewith and otherwise available. Each Borrower represents and warrants that it is
not aware of any claims or causes of action against the Agent or any Lender, any participant lender
or any of their successors or assigns.

4.4 Except as expressly amended hereby, each Borrower agrees that the Credit Agreement and all
other Loan Documents are ratified and confirmed and shall remain in full force and effect and that
it has no set off, counterclaim or defense with respect to any of the foregoing. Terms used but
not defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed thereto in the Credit Agreement.

-2- 

4.5 This Amendment may be signed upon any number of counterparts with the same effect as if the
signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties signing this Amendment have caused this Amendment to be
executed and delivered as of September 27, 2006.

KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS, INC. 

By:

/s/ Mark J. Plush 

Its:

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS GmbH 

By:

/s/ Mark J. Plush 

Its:

Managing Director 

KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS SARL 

By:

/s/ Mark J. Plush 

Its:

Managing Director 

KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS LTD. 

By:

/s/ Mark J. Plush 

Its:

Managing Director 

KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS SRL 

By:

/s/ Mark J. Plush 

Its:

Managing Director 

KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS BV 

By:

/s/ Mark J. Plush 

Its:

Director 

-3- 

KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS SA 

By:

/s/Mark J. Plush 

Its:

Managing Director 

KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS KK 

By:

/s/Mark J. Plush 

Its:

Managing Director 

KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS 
INTERNATIONAL CORP. 

By:

/s/Mark J. Plush 

Its:

Director / Secretary Treasurer 

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., successor by  
merger with Bank One, NA (Main Office Columbus), as  
Agent, LC Issuer and Lender 

By:

/s/ Henry W. Centa 

Its:

Senior Vice President 

-4- 

</EX-10.R>

<EX-10.V>
 3
 l23663bexv10wv.htm
 EX-10.V

EX-10.V 

Exhibit 10(v) 

KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS, INC. 
2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
(as amended December 28, 2006) 

1.  General . This Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) provides key employees of Keithley
Instruments, Inc. (the  Company ) with the opportunity to acquire or expand their equity interest
in the Company by making available for award or purchase Common Shares, without par value, of the
Company ( Common Shares ) through the granting of nontransferable options to purchase Common Shares
( Stock Options  the granting of Common Shares, which may or may not be subject to temporal
restrictions on transfer and substantial risks of forfeiture ( Restricted Stock  and/or the
granting of nontransferable options to receive payments based on the appreciation of Common Shares
( SARs ). Stock Options, Restricted Stock and SARs shall be collectively referred to herein as
 Grants  and an individual grant of Stock Options, Restricted Stock or SARs shall be individually
referred to herein as a  Grant . It is intended that key employees may be granted, simultaneously
or from time to time, Stock Options that qualify as incentive stock options ( Incentive Stock
Options ) under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ) or Stock
Options that do not so qualify ( Non-qualified Stock Options ). No provision of the Plan is
intended or shall be construed to grant key employees alternative rights in any Incentive Stock
Option granted under the Plan so as to prevent such Option from qualifying under Section 422 of the
Code.

2.  Purpose of the Plan . The purpose of the Plan is to provide continuing incentives
to key employees of the Company and of any subsidiary corporation of the Company by encouraging
such key employees to acquire new or additional share ownership in the Company, thereby increasing
their proprietary interest in the Company s business and enhancing their personal interest in the
Company s success.

For purposes of the Plan, a  subsidiary corporation  consists of any corporation fifty percent
(50%) of the stock of which is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the Company.

3.  Effective Date of the Plan . The Plan originally became effective upon its adoption
by the Board of Directors on December 7, 2001, and was approved by the Company s stockholders on
February 16, 2002 by holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of voting capital stock of the
Company. The Plan was subsequently amended by the Board of Directors on September 8, 2005 and
December    , 2006. No further shareholder approval shall be required with respect to the making of
Grants pursuant to the Plan, except as provided in Section 12 hereof.

4.  Administration of the Plan . The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or by a committee selected by such Board of
Directors by majority vote and comprised of no fewer than two (2) members of such Board of
Directors (the  Committee ). No person shall be appointed to, or serve on, the Committee who is
not both an  outside director,  within the meaning of 26 C.F.R.  1.162-27(e)(3), and a
 non-employee director  as defined under Rule 16b-3(b)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Grants made to members of the Board of Directors, which may include
members of the Committee, must be approved and granted by the Board of Directors (in connection to
Grants made to members of the Board of Directors, references to the  Committee  in the Plan shall
mean the Board of Directors).

A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. The acts of a majority of the members
present at any meeting at which a quorum is present (or acts unanimously approved in writing by the
members of the Committee) shall constitute binding acts of the Committee.

Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Committee shall be authorized and
empowered:

(a) To select the key employees to whom Grants may be made;

(b) To determine the number of Common Shares to be covered by any Grant;

(c) To prescribe the terms and conditions of any Grants made under the Plan, and the
form(s) and agreement(s) used in connection with such Grants, which shall include
agreements governing the granting of Restricted Stock, Stock Options and/or SARs;

(d) To determine the time or times when Stock Options and/or SARs will be granted
and when they will terminate in whole or in part;

(e) To determine the time or times when Stock Options and SARs that are granted may
be exercised;

(f) To determine, at the time a Stock Option is granted under the Plan, whether such
Option is an Incentive Stock Option entitled to the benefits of Section 422 of the
Code;

(g) To establish any other Stock Option agreement provisions not inconsistent with
the terms and conditions of the Plan or, where the Stock Option is an Incentive
Stock Option, with the terms and conditions of Section 422 of the Code;

(h) To determine whether SARs will be made part of any Grants consisting of Stock
Options, and to approve any SARs made part of any such Grants pursuant to Section 9
hereof; and

(i) To delegate to one (1) or more Company officers authority to make Grants of
Stock Options or Restricted Stock to key employees (other than executive officers)
and to individuals to whom offers of Company employment are, or are expected to be
made.

5.  Key Employees Eligible for Grants . Grants may be made from time to time to those
key employees of the Company or a subsidiary corporation who are designated by the Committee (or by
the Committee s delegee(s) in accordance with Section 4(i) hereof or by the Board in the case of
grants to members of the Board of Directors), acting in its sole and exclusive discretion. Key
employees may include, but shall not necessarily be limited to, members of the Board of Directors,
and officers, of the Company and any subsidiary corporation; and other salaried employees that the
Committee identifies as strategically or financially important to preserving and enhancing
shareholder value. Notwithstanding any contrary Plan provision, Stock Options intended to qualify
as Incentive Stock Options shall only be granted to key employees while actually employed by the
Company or a subsidiary corporation. The Committee may grant more than one Stock Option, with or
without SARs, to the same key employee. No Stock Option shall be granted to any key employee
during any period of time when such key employee is on a leave of absence.

6.  Shares Subject to the Plan . The shares to be issued pursuant to any Grant made
under the Plan shall be Common Shares. Either Common Shares held as treasury stock, or authorized
and

Page 2 

unissued Common Shares, or both, may be so issued, in such amount or amounts within the
maximum limits of the Plan as the Board of Directors shall from time to time determine. In the
event a SAR is granted in tandem with a Stock Option pursuant to Section 9 and such SAR is
thereafter exercised in whole or in part, then such Stock Option or the portion thereof to which
the duly exercised SAR relates shall be deemed to have been exercised for purposes of such Option,
but may be made available for re-offering under the Plan to any eligible employee.

Subject only to the provisions of the next succeeding paragraph of this Section 6, the
aggregate number of Common Shares made subject to all Grants under the Plan shall be three million
(3,000,000) Common Shares and the maximum number of Common Shares made subject to Grants under the
Plan to any one (1) key employee during any one (1)-year period shall be two hundred thousand
(200,000) Common Shares. Such aggregate number(s) of Common Shares shall not include any Common
Shares reacquired or never issued due to a forfeiture, exchange or relinquishment of rights under a
Grant made hereunder.

If, at any time subsequent to the date of adoption of the Plan by the Board of Directors, the
number of Common Shares are increased or decreased, or changed or converted into or exchanged for a
different number or kind of shares of stock or other securities of the Company or of another
corporation or other property, including cash (whether as a result of a stock split, stock
dividend, combination or exchange of shares, exchange for other securities, reclassification,
reorganization, redesignation, merger, consolidation, recapitalization or otherwise): (i) there
shall be substituted for each Common Share subject to an unexercised Stock Option or SAR (in whole
or in part) granted under the Plan, the number and kind of shares of stock or other securities or
property into which each outstanding Common Share shall be changed or for which each such Common
Share shall be exchanged and, in the case of a merger, reorganization, consolidation or similar
transaction, the Committee may cancel an unexercised Stock Option or SAR in exchange for a payment
equal to the amount, if any, by which the price being paid to holders of Common Shares in the
merger, reorganization, consolidation or similar transaction exceeds the applicable exercise price
of the Stock Option or SAR; (ii) the option price per Common Share or unit of securities shall be
increased or decreased proportionately so that the aggregate purchase price for the securities
subject to a Stock Option or SAR shall remain the same as immediately prior to such event; and
(iii) any outstanding Restricted Stock that is converted, exchanged or otherwise changed into a
different number or kind of stock or security, shall continue to be subject to any and all terms,
conditions and restrictions originally applicable to such Restricted Stock. In addition to the
foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled in the event of any such increase, decrease or exchange
of Common Shares to make other adjustments to the securities subject to a Stock Option or SAR, the
provisions of the Plan, and to any related Stock Option or SAR agreements (including adjustments
which may provide for the elimination of fractional shares), where necessary to preserve the terms
and conditions of any Grants hereunder.

7.  Stock Option Provisions .

(a)  General . The Committee may grant to key employees (also referred to as
 optionees ) nontransferable Stock Options that either qualify as Incentive Stock Options under
Section 422 of the Code or do not so qualify. However, any Stock Option which is an Incentive
Stock Option shall only be granted within 10 years from the earlier of (i) the date this Plan is
adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company; or (ii) the date this Plan is approved by the
shareholders of the Company.

(b)  Stock Option Price . The option price per Common Share which may be purchased
under an Incentive Stock Option under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee at the time of
Grant, but shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of a Common
Share, determined as of the date such Option is granted; however, if a key employee to whom an
Incentive Stock Option is granted is, at the time of the grant of such Option, an  owner,  as
defined in

  Page 3 

Section 422(b)(6) of the Code (modified as provided in Section 424(d) of the Code) of more
than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or
any subsidiary corporation (a  Substantial Shareholder ), the price per Common Share of such
Option, as determined by the Committee, shall not be less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of
the fair market value of a Common Share on the date such Option is granted. Except as specifically
provided above, the fair market value of a Common Share shall be determined in accordance with
procedures to be established by the Committee. The day on which the Committee approves the
granting of a Stock Option shall be considered the date on which such Option is granted. The
option price per Common Share under each Stock Option granted pursuant to the Plan which is not an
Incentive Stock Option shall be the closing price of the Common Shares on the New York Stock
Exchange on the date the Stock Option is approved by the Committee (or the next trading day if the
approval date is not a trading day), unless the Committee establishes a different option price or
method for determining the option price at the time of approval.

(c)  Period of Stock Option . The Committee shall determine when each Stock Option is
to expire. However, no Incentive Stock Option shall be exercisable for a period of more than ten
(10) years from the date upon which such Option is granted. Further, no Incentive Stock Option
granted to an employee who is a Substantial Shareholder at the time of the grant of such Option
shall be exercisable after the expiration of (5) years from the date of grant of such Option.

(d)  Limitations on Exercise and Transfer of Stock Options . Except as otherwise
provided herein, only the key employee to whom a Stock Option is granted may exercise such Option,
and no Stock Option granted hereunder shall be transferable by an optionee, other than by will or
the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, an optionee may
transfer and assign Stock Options (other than Incentive Stock Options) if (and then, only to the
extent) the optionee obtains the prior consent of the Committee and otherwise complies with the
requirements of this Section 7(d) (a  Permitted Transfer ). For this purpose, a Permitted Transfer
consists of either (i) an irrevocable transfer by an optionee to a family member (or a trust or
partnership whose beneficiaries or partners are comprised of family members), if made by without
payment of consideration (as further defined in 17 C.F.R.  240.16b-3); or (ii) an irrevocable
transfer by an optionee to an alternate payee, made under a qualified domestic relations order (as
defined in 29 C.F.R.  240.16a-12 and 26 U.S.C.   414(p)(1)(B)). Also for this purpose, a  family
member  of an optionee includes the optionee s spouse, children, grandchildren, nieces and nephews.
Following a Permitted Transfer, the Grants transferred shall be exercisable only by the
transferee. Except as specifically provided in this Section 7(d), no Stock Option granted
hereunder can be pledged or hypothecated, nor shall any such Option be subject to execution,
attachment or similar process.

(e)  Employment, Holding Period Requirements For Certain Options . The Committee may
condition any Stock Option granted hereunder upon the continued employment of the optionee by the
Company or by a subsidiary corporation, and may make any such Stock Option immediately exercisable.
However, the Committee will require that, from and after the date of grant of any Incentive Stock
Option until the day three (3) months prior to the date such Option is exercised, such optionee
must be an employee of the Company or of a subsidiary corporation, but always subject to the right
of the Company or any such subsidiary corporation to terminate such optionee s employment during
such period. Each Stock Option shall be subject to such additional restrictions as to the time and
method of exercise as shall be prescribed by the Committee. Upon completion of such requirements,
if any, a Stock Option or the appropriate portion thereof may be exercised in whole or in part from
time to time during the option period; however, such exercise right(s) shall be limited to whole
shares.

(f)  Payment for Stock Option Price . A Stock Option shall be exercised by an optionee
giving written notice to the Company of his intention to exercise the same, accompanied by full
payment of the purchase price together with any federal, state and local income and employment
taxes

Page 4 

required to be withheld by the Company from the optionee s wages as a result of such exercise.
Such purchase price shall be paid with cash or check, or with a surrender of Common Shares having
a fair market value on the date of exercise equal to that portion of the purchase price for which
payment in cash or check is not made. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, approve other
methods of exercise for a Stock Option or payment of the option price, provided that no such method
shall cause any option granted under the Plan as an Incentive Stock Option to not qualify under
Section 422 of the Code, or cause any Common Share issued in connection with the exercise of a
Stock Option not to be a fully paid and non-assessable Common Share.

(g)  Certain Reissuances of Stock Options . In the discretion of the Committee and to
the extent Common Shares are surrendered by an optionee in connection with the exercise of a Stock
Option in accordance with Section 7(f), new Stock Options shall be granted to such optionee (to the
extent Common Shares remain available for Grants). If granted, such Stock Options will have the
following terms and conditions:

(i) The number of Common Shares shall be equal to the number of Common Shares being
surrendered by the optionee;

(ii) The option price per Common Share shall be equal to the fair market value of
Common Shares, determined on the date of exercise of the Stock Options whose
exercise caused such Grant; and

(iii) The terms and conditions of such Stock Options shall in all other respects
replicate such terms and conditions of the Stock Options whose exercise caused such
Grant, except to the extent such terms and conditions are determined to not be
wholly consistent with the general provisions of this Section 7, or in conflict with
the remaining provisions of this Plan.

(h)  Cancellation and Replacement of Stock Options and Related Rights . The Committee
may at any time or from time to time permit the voluntary surrender by an optionee who is the
holder of any outstanding Stock Options under the Plan, where such surrender is conditioned upon
the granting to such optionee of new Stock Options for such number of shares as the Committee shall
determine, or may require such a voluntary surrender as a condition precedent to the grant of new
Stock Options. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of new Stock Options,
including the prices at and periods during which they may be exercised, in accordance with the
provisions of this Plan, all or any of which may differ from the terms and conditions of the Stock
Options surrendered. Any such new Stock Options shall be subject to all the relevant provisions of
this Plan. The Common Shares subject to any Stock Option so surrendered shall no longer be charged
against the limitation provided in Section 6 of this Plan and may again become shares subject to
the Plan. The granting of new Stock Options in connection with the surrender of outstanding Stock
Options under this Plan shall be considered for the purposes of the Plan as the granting of new
Stock Options and not an alteration, amendment or modification of the Plan or of the Stock Options
being surrendered.

(j)  Limitation on Exercisable Incentive Stock Options . The aggregate fair market
value of the Common Shares first becoming subject to exercise as Incentive Stock Options by a key
employee during any given calendar year shall not exceed the sum of One Hundred Thousand Dollars
($100,000). Such aggregate fair market value shall be determined as of the date such Option is
granted, taking into account, in the order in which granted, any other incentive stock options
granted by the Company, or by a parent or subsidiary corporation thereof.

Page 5 

8.  Restricted Stock .

(a)  Grant . The Committee shall determine the key employees to whom, and the time or
times at which, Grants of Restricted Stock will be made, the number of shares of Restricted Stock
to be granted, the price (if any) to be paid by such key employees (subject to Section 8(b)), the
time or times (if any) within which such Restricted Stock grants may be subject to forfeiture, and
the other terms and conditions of the grants in addition to those set forth in Section 8(b). The
Committee may condition the grant of Restricted Stock upon the attainment of specified performance
goals or such other factors as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion.

(b)  Terms and Conditions . Restricted Stock granted under the Plan shall contain any
terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, which are deemed desirable
by the Committee. A key employee who receives a grant of Restricted Stock, other than a grant that
does not include restrictions or a risk of forfeiture, shall not have any rights with respect to
such Grant, unless and until such key employee has executed an agreement evidencing such Grant in
the form approved from time to time by the Committee, has delivered a fully executed copy thereof
to the Company, and has otherwise complied with the applicable terms and conditions of such Grant.
In addition, Restricted Stock granted under the Plan shall be subject to the following terms and
conditions:

(i) The purchase price for Common Shares consisting of Restricted Stock, if any,
will be equal to their stated value.

(ii) Grants of Restricted Stock, other than a grant that does not include
restrictions or a risk of forfeiture, shall only be accepted by executing a
Restricted Stock agreement and paying whatever price (if any) is required under
Section 8(b)(i).

(iii) Each key employee granted Restricted Stock will be issued a stock certificate
in respect of such shares of Restricted Stock. Such certificate shall be registered
in the name of such key employee, and shall bear an appropriate legend referring to
the terms, conditions, and restrictions(if any) applicable to such Grant.

(iv) Any stock certificates evidencing Common Shares consisting of Restricted Stock
shall either (A) be held in custody by the Company until the employment and other
restrictions thereon shall all have lapsed; or (B) be affixed with a legend,
identifying such Shares as Restricted Stock and expressly prohibiting the sale,
transfer, tender, pledge, assignment or encumbrance of such Shares, as the Committee
shall determine. With respect to any Restricted Stock held in custody by the
Company, the key employee granted such Restricted Stock shall deliver to the Company
a stock power, endorsed in blank, relating to the Common Shares represented by such
Stock. With respect to any Restricted Stock held by a key employee under legend,
the key employee granted such Restricted Stock shall deliver to the Company an
acknowledgment that such Stock remains subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture
in the event of termination of employment under certain circumstances.

(v) Subject to the provisions of the Plan and the Restricted Stock agreement, during
a temporal period (if any) set by the Committee and commencing with the date of such
Grant (the  Restriction Period ), a key employee shall not be permitted to sell,
transfer, tender, pledge, assign or otherwise encumber any Restricted Stock granted
under the Plan. However, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may provide for the
lapse of such transfer or other restrictions in installments, or accelerate or waive
such restrictions in

Page 6 

whole or in part, based on service, performance or other factors and criteria
selected by the Committee.

(vi) Except as provided in this Section 8(b)(vi) and Section 8(b)(v), a key employee
shall have, with respect to shares of Restricted Stock granted to him, all of the
rights of a shareholder of the Company, including the right to vote such Stock and
the right to receive any dividends thereon. The Committee, in its sole discretion
and as determined at the time of a Grant of Restricted Stock, may permit or require
cash dividends otherwise due and payable to be deferred and, if the Committee so
determines, reinvested either in additional Restricted Stock (to the extent Common
Shares are available), or otherwise. Stock dividends issued with respect to
Restricted Stock shall be treated as additional shares of Restricted Stock. As
Restricted Stock, such additional Common Shares will be subject to the same
restrictions, terms and conditions applicable to the Restricted Stock with respect
to which such additional Common Shares were issued.

(vii) No Restricted Stock shall be transferable by a key employee other than by will
or by the laws of descent and distribution so long as any restrictions or risk of
forfeiture remain applicable.

(c)  Minimum Value Provisions . To ensure that Grants of Restricted Stock actually
reflect the performance of the Company and service of the key employee, the Committee may provide,
in its sole discretion, for a tandem performance-based award, or other grant, designed to guarantee
a minimum value, payable in cash or Common Shares, to the recipient of a Restricted Stock Grant,
subject to such performance, future service, deferral and other terms and conditions as may be
specified by the Committee.

9.  Stock Appreciation Rights . A key employee may be granted the right to receive a
payment based on the increase in the value of Common Shares occurring after the date of such Grant;
such rights shall be known as Stock Appreciation Rights ( SARs ). SARs may (but need not) be
granted to a key employee in tandem with, and exercisable in lieu of exercising, a Grant of Stock
Options. SARs will be specifically granted upon terms and conditions specified by the Committee,
if the Company is the employer of the key employee, or by a subsidiary corporation subject to the
Committee s approval, if such subsidiary corporation is the employer of the key employee. No
optionee shall be entitled to SAR rights solely as a result of the grant of a Stock Option to him.
Any such rights, if granted, may only be exercised by the holder thereof, either with respect to
all, or a portion, of the Stock Option to which it applies. When granted in tandem with a Stock
Option, an SAR shall provide that the holder of a Stock Option shall have the right to receive an
amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the
Common Shares covered by such Option, determined as of the date of exercise of such SAR by the
Committee (in the same manner as such value is determined for purposes of the granting of Stock
Options), over the price to be paid for such Common Shares under such Option. Such amount shall be
payable by either the Company or the subsidiary corporation, whichever such corporation is the
employer of the key employee, in one or more of the following manners, as determined by the
Committee, if the Company is the employer of the key employee, or by the subsidiary corporation
subject to the Committee s approval, if such subsidiary corporation is the employer of the key
employee:

(a) cash (or check);

(b) fully paid Common Shares having a fair market value equal to such amount; or

(c) a combination of cash (or check) and Common Shares.

Page 7 

In no event may any person exercise any SARs granted hereunder unless (i) such person is then
permitted to exercise the Stock Option or the portion thereof with respect to which such SARs
relate, and (ii) the fair market value of the Common Shares covered by the Stock Option, determined
as provided above, exceeds the option price of such Common Shares. Upon the exercise of any SARs,
the Stock Option, or that portion thereof to which such SARs relate, shall be canceled and
automatically extinguished. A SAR granted in tandem with a Stock Option hereunder shall be made a
part of the Stock Option agreement to which such SAR relates, in a form approved by the Committee
and not inconsistent with this Plan. The granting of a Stock Option or SAR shall impose no
obligation upon the optionee to exercise such Stock Option or SAR. The Company s or a subsidiary
corporation s obligation to satisfy SARs shall not be funded or secured in any manner. No SAR
granted hereunder shall be transferable by the key employee granted such SAR, other than by will or
the laws of descent and distribution.

After the Grant of an SAR, an optionee intending to rely on an exemption from Section 16(b) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) shall be required to hold such SAR for six
(6) months from the date the price for such SAR is fixed to the date of cash settlement.
Additionally, in order to remain exempt from Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, an SAR must be
exercised by an optionee subject to such Section only during the period beginning on the third
business day following the release of a summary statement of the Company s quarterly or annual
sales and earnings and ending on the twelfth business day following said date.

10.  Termination of Employment . If a key employee ceases to be an employee of the
Company and every subsidiary corporation for a reason other than death, retirement, or permanent
and total disability, such key employee s Grants shall terminate on the effective date of such
termination of employment, unless (and then, only to the extent) such Grants by their terms
specifically provide otherwise, or unless (and then, only to the extent) the Committee extends such
Grants on or before such key employee s date of termination of employment. Neither the key
employee nor any other person shall have any right after such date to exercise all or any part of
his Stock Options or SARs, and all Restricted Stock which is not vested or otherwise subject to
restriction shall thereupon be forfeited, and/or declared void and without value.

In the absence of specific Grant provisions prescribing a longer period, if termination of
employment is due to death or permanent and total disability, outstanding Stock Options and SARs
may be exercised within the one (1) year period ending on the anniversary of such death or
permanent and total disability. In the case of death, such outstanding Stock Options and SARs
shall be exercised by such key employee s estate, or by that person designated by such key employee
by will, or as otherwise indicated by the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in no event shall any Stock Option or SAR be exercisable after the expiration of the
option period, and in the case of exercises made after a key employee s death, not to any greater
extent than the key employee would have been entitled to exercise such Option or SAR at the time of
his death. Restricted Stock held by a key employee whose employment by the Company or any
subsidiary corporation terminates by reason of death shall thereupon vest and all restrictions and
risks of forfeiture thereon shall thereupon lapse.

Subject to the discretion of the Committee, in the event a key employee terminates employment
with the Company and all subsidiary corporations because of normal, early or disability retirement
under the Keithley Instruments, Inc., Employees  Pension Plan (or any successor pension plan), (a)
any then outstanding Stock Options and/or SARs held by such key employee shall lapse at the earlier
of (i) the end of the term of such Stock Option or SAR, or (ii) twelve (12) months after such
retirement or permanent and total disability (subject only to the three (3) month exercise
limitation applicable to Incentive Stock Options); and (b) any Restricted Stock held by such key
employee shall thereafter vest and any applicable restrictions shall lapse, to the extent such
Restricted Stock would have become vested or no longer subject to restriction within twelve (12)
months from the time of termination

  Page 8 

had the key employee continued to fulfill all of the conditions of the Restricted Stock during
such period (or on such accelerated basis as the Committee may determine at or after date of
Grant).

For purposes of this Plan and all Grants made hereunder, if an employee of the Company or one
of its subsidiary corporations is granted a leave of absence by the Company or such subsidiary
corporation, to serve in the uniformed services (within the meaning of chapter 43, title 38 of the
United States Code) or for any other reason approved by the Company, his employment with the
Company or such subsidiary corporation shall not be considered to have terminated and he shall be
deemed an employee of the Company or such subsidiary corporation during such leave of absence. The
provisions of this paragraph shall apply with equal force to any extension of any such leave of
absence granted by the Company or such subsidiary corporation.

11.  Change of Control . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below),
notwithstanding any other provisions hereof or of any agreement to the contrary, all Stock Options
and SARs granted under this Plan shall become immediately exercisable in full and all Restricted
Stock grants shall become immediately vested and any applicable restrictions shall lapse.

For purposes of this Plan, a Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred if: (i) a
tender offer shall be made and consummated for the ownership of 25% or more of the outstanding
voting securities of the Company; (ii) the Company shall be merged or consolidated with another
corporation and, as a result of such merger or consolidation, less than 75% of the outstanding
voting securities of the surviving or resulting corporation shall be owned in the aggregate by the
former shareholders of the Company as the same shall have existed immediately prior to such merger
or consolidation; (iii) the Company shall sell substantially all of its assets to another
corporation which is not a wholly owned subsidiary; or (iv) a person, within the meaning of Section
3(a)(9) or of Section 13(d)(3) (as in effect on the date hereof) of the Exchange Act, shall
acquire, other than by reason of inheritance, twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the outstanding
voting securities of the Company (whether directly, indirectly, beneficially or of record). For
purposes of this Plan, ownership of voting securities shall take into account and shall include
ownership as determined by applying the provisions of Rule 13d-3(d)(1)(i) as in effect on the date
hereof pursuant to the Exchange Act.

12.  Amendments to Plan . The Committee is authorized to interpret this Plan and from
time to time adopt any rules and regulations for carrying out this Plan that it may deem advisable.
Subject to the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, the Committee may at any time
amend, modify, suspend or terminate this Plan. In no event, however, without the approval of the
Company s shareholders, shall any action of the Committee or the Board of Directors result in:

(a) Materially amending, modifying or altering the eligibility requirements provided
in Section 5 hereof;

(b) Materially increasing, except as provided in Section 6 hereof, the maximum
number of shares subject to Grants;

(c) Materially increasing the benefits accruing to optionees under
this Plan; or

(d) Retroactively altering the material terms of any Grants made to
individuals described in the flush language at the end of Section 4 hereof;

except to conform this Plan and any agreements made hereunder to changes in the Code or governing
law.

Page 9 

13.  Investment Representation, Approvals and Listing . The Committee may, if it deems
appropriate, condition its grant of any Stock Option hereunder upon receipt of the following
investment representation from the optionee:

I agree that any Common Shares of Keithley Instruments, Inc. which I may acquire by virtue
of this Stock Option shall be acquired for investment purposes only and not with a view to
distribution or resale, and may not be transferred, sold, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or
otherwise disposed of by me unless (i) a registration statement or post-effective amendment
to a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to
said Common Shares has become effective so as to permit the sale or other disposition of
said shares by me; or (ii) there is presented to Keithley Instruments, Inc. an opinion of
counsel satisfactory to Keithley Instruments, Inc. to the effect that the sale or other
proposed disposition of said Common Shares by me may lawfully be made otherwise than
pursuant to an effective registration statement or post-effective amendment to a
registration statement relating to the said shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended. 

The Company shall not be required to issue any certificate or certificates for Common Shares
upon the exercise of any Stock Option or a SAR granted under this Plan prior to (i) the obtaining
of any approval from any governmental agency which the Company shall, in its sole discretion,
determine to be necessary or advisable; (ii) the admission of such shares to listing on any
national securities exchange on which the Common Shares may be listed; (iii) the completion of any
registration or other qualifications of the Common Shares under any state or federal law or ruling
or regulations of any governmental body which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine
to be necessary or advisable or the determination by the Company, in its sole discretion, that any
registration or other qualification of the Common Shares is not necessary or advisable; and (iv)
the obtaining of an investment representation from the optionee in the form stated above or in such
other form as the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine to be adequate.

14.  General Provisions . The form and substance of Stock Option agreements, Restricted
Stock agreements, and SAR agreements made hereunder, whether granted at the same or different
times, need not be identical. Nothing in this Plan or in any agreement shall confer upon any
employee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any of its subsidiary corporations,
to be entitled to any remuneration or benefits not set forth in this Plan or such Grant, or to
interfere with or limit the right of the Company or any subsidiary corporation to terminate his
employment at any time, with or without cause. Nothing contained in this Plan or in any Stock
Option agreement or SAR shall be construed as entitling any optionee to any rights of a shareholder
as a result of the grant of a Stock Option or an SAR, until such time as Common Shares are actually
issued to such optionee pursuant to the exercise of such Option or SAR. This Plan may be assumed
by the successors and assigns of the Company. The liability of the Company under this Plan and any
sale made hereunder is limited to the obligations set forth herein with respect to such sale and no
term or provision of this Plan shall be construed to impose any liability on the Company in favor
of any employee with respect to any loss, cost or expense which the employee may incur in
connection with or arising out of any transaction in connection with this Plan. The cash proceeds
received by the Company from the issuance of Common Shares pursuant to this Plan will be used for
general corporate purposes. The expense of administering this Plan shall be borne by the Company.
The captions and section numbers appearing in this Plan are inserted only as a matter of
convenience. They do not define, limit, construe or describe the scope or intent of the provisions
of this Plan. Ohio law controls the enforcement and interpretation of this Plan, and any Grants or
other contractual agreements made pursuant to this Plan.

15.  Termination of This Plan . This Plan shall terminate on February 11, 2012;
thereafter, no Stock Options or Restricted Stock or SARs shall be granted hereunder. All Stock
Options

  Page 10 

and SARs outstanding at the time of termination of this Plan shall continue in full force and
effect according to their terms and the terms and conditions of this Plan.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, by order of its Board of Directors, has caused the
undersigned, duly authorized officers to execute this Plan as of the day and year first above
written.

KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS, INC.

By

/s/ Mark J. Plush

And

/s/ Joseph P. Keithley

Page 11 

</EX-10.V>

<EX-21>
 4
 l23663bexv21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

Exhibit 21

Subsidiaries of the registrant

WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES 

Keithley Instruments International Corporation 
Cleveland, Ohio U.S.A.

FRANCE: Keithley Instruments SARL

GERMANY: Keithley Instruments GmbH

GREAT BRITAIN: Keithley Instruments Ltd.

ITALY: Keithley Instruments SRL

JAPAN: Keithley Instruments KK

MALAYSIA: Keithley Instruments Sdn Bhd

NETHERLANDS: Keithley Instruments BV

SWITZERLAND: Keithley Instruments S.A.

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 l23663bexv23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

Exhibit 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No.
33-2496, No. 33-49380, No. 33-72606, No. 333-00933, No. 333-21999, No. 333-37136, No. 333-88088 and
No. 333-117992) of Keithley Instruments, Inc. of our report dated December 28, 2006 relating to the
consolidated financial statements, management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which
appears in this Form 10-K. We also consent to the reference to us under the heading  Selected
Financial Data  in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Cleveland, Ohio 
December 28, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.A>
 6
 l23663bexv31wa.htm
 EX-31.A

EX-31.A 

Exhibit 31(a) 

Certification Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 

I, Joseph P. Keithley, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Keithley Instruments, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and
report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Date: December 28, 2006

/s/ Joseph P. Keithley

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 7
 l23663bexv31wb.htm
 EX-31.B

EX-31.B 

Exhibit 31(b) 

Certification Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 

I, Mark J. Plush, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Keithley Instruments, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and
report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Date: December 28, 2006

/s/ Mark J. Plush

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 8
 l23663bexv32wa.htm
 EX-32.A

EX-32.A 

Exhibit 32(a) 

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 

I, Joseph P. Keithley, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Keithley
Instruments, Inc. (the  Company ), certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that:

(1) The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the period ended September 30, 2006
which this certification accompanies fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ Joseph P. Keithley

Joseph P. Keithley

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

December 28, 2006

A signed original of this written statement has been provided to Keithley Instruments, Inc.
and will be retained by Keithley Instruments, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 9
 l23663bexv32wb.htm
 EX-32.B

EX-32.B 

Exhibit 32(b) 

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 

I, Mark J. Plush, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Keithley Instruments, Inc.
(the  Company ), certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that:

(1) The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the period ended September 30, 2006
which this certification accompanies fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ Mark J. Plush

Mark J. Plush

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

December 28, 2006

A signed original of this written statement has been provided to Keithley Instruments, Inc.
and will be retained by Keithley Instruments, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.B>

