<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061213_10-K_edgar_data_315131_0000950134-06-023047_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>505733</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>134227</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>7501</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>220026</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>44</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-023047.hdr.sgml : 20061213
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061213145327
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-023047
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061213
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061213

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PANHANDLE ROYALTY CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000315131
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				731055775
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			OK
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-31759
		FILM NUMBER:		061273992

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5400 NW GRAND BLVD
		STREET 2:		GRAND CENTRE STE 210
		CITY:			OKLAHOMA CITY
		STATE:			OK
		ZIP:			73112
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4059481560

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 ORNl+S3qoYnSQGH/hhIU9Q/O+fek12HVqjc4O/oMVbOsIiF4z/nioDExupGm/YBL
 GDQYh8aYzG+EFITH9NyrjA==

 0000950134-06-023047.txt : 20061213

10-K
 1
 d42006e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

Annual Report Pursuant To Section 13 or 15(d) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 

Commission File Number: 0-9116 

PANHANDLE ROYALTY COMPANY  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant s telephone number:  (405) 948-1560 

Securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Act:

CLASS A COMMON STOCK (VOTING)

AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE 

(Title of Class)

(Name of each exchange on which registered) 

Securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Act:

(Title of Class)

CLASS B COMMON STOCK (NON-VOTING) $1.00 par value 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.          Yes     No

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.           Yes     No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.          Yes     No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer          Accelerated filer          Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).         Yes     No

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed
by using the closing price of registrant s common stock, at March 31, 2006, was $141,933,276. As
of December 4, 2006, 8,422,529 shares of Class A Common stock were outstanding.

Documents Incorporated By Reference 

The information required by Part III of this Report, to the extent not set forth herein, is
incorporated by reference from the registrant s Definitive Proxy Statement relating to the annual
meeting of stockholders to be held on March 8, 2007, which definitive proxy statement will be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year to
which this Report relates.

T A B L E O F C O N T E N T S  

Page  

PART I  

Item 1 Business

1-8 

Item 2 Properties

8-15 

Item 3 Legal Proceedings

15 

Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of
Security Holders

15 

PART II  

Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity and
Related Stockholder Matters

16 

Item 6 Selected Financial Data

17-18 

Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

18-25 

Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk

25-26 

Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

26-50 

Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

51 

Item 9A Controls and Procedures

51 

PART III  

Item 10-14 Incorporated by Reference to Proxy Statement

PART IV  

Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8- K

52 

Signature Page

53 

Exhibit 21

54 

Exhibit 31.1-31.2

55-56 

Exhibit 32.1-32.2

57-58 

Subsidiaries of the Registrant    
     Certification of Chief Executive Officer    
     Certification of Chief Financial Officer    
     Certification of Chief Executive Officer    
     Certification of Chief Financial Officer    

Certain defined terms as used in this report:   SEC   means the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission,   Bbl   means barrel,   Bcf   means billion cubic feet,   Mcf   means thousand cubic feet,
  Mcfd   means thousand cubic feet per day,   Mcfe   means natural gas stated on an Mcf basis and crude
oil converted to a thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent by using the ratio of one Bbl of
crude oil to six Mcf of natural gas,   PV-10   means estimated pretax present value of future net
revenues discounted at 10% using SEC rules,   gross   wells or acres are the wells or acres in which
the Company has a working interest, and   net   wells or acres are determined by multiplying gross
wells or acres by the Company s net revenue interest in such wells or acres. References to years
2002-2006 refer to the Company s fiscal years ended September 30 each year.   Minerals  ,   mineral
acres   or  mineral interests  refers to fee mineral acreage owned in perpetuity by the
Company.

Table of Contents   

PART I  

ITEM 1 BUSINESS 

GENERAL 

Panhandle Royalty Company ( Panhandle  or the  Company ) is an Oklahoma corporation organized
in 1926 as Panhandle Cooperative Royalty Company. In 1979, Panhandle Cooperative Royalty Company
was merged into Panhandle. Panhandle s authorized and registered stock consisted of 100,000 shares
of $1.00 par value Class A Common Stock. In 1982, the Company split the stock on a 10-for-1 basis
resulting in 1,000,000 shares of authorized Class A Common Stock. In May 1999, the Company s
shareholders voted to increase the authorized Class A Common Stock to 6,000,000 shares and to split
the shares on a three-for-one basis. In addition, voting rights for the shares were changed from
one vote per shareholder to one vote per share. In February 2004, the Company s shareholders voted
to increase the authorized Class A Common Stock to 12,000,000 shares and to split the shares on a
two-for-one basis. In January 2006, the Class A Common Stock was again split on a two-for-one
basis.

Since its formation, the Company has been involved in the acquisition, management and
development of oil and gas properties, including wells located on the Company s mineral acreage.
Panhandle s mineral properties and other oil and gas interests are located primarily in Oklahoma,
New Mexico and Texas. Properties are also located in nine other states. The majority of the
Company s oil and gas production is from wells located in Oklahoma. In 1988, the Company merged
with New Mexico Osage Royalty Company acquiring most of its New Mexico mineral acreage.

On October 1, 2001, Panhandle acquired privately held Wood Oil Company ( Wood ) of Tulsa,
Oklahoma. Prior to the acquisition, Wood was a privately held company engaged in oil and gas
exploration and production and fee mineral ownership and owned interests in certain oil and gas and
real estate partnerships and an office building in Tulsa. Wood is operating as a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Panhandle. Wood and its shareholders were unrelated parties to Panhandle.

The Company s office is located at Grand Centre, Suite 305, 5400 North Grand Blvd., Oklahoma
City, OK 73112 (405)948-1560, fax (405)948-2038. Its website is located at www.panra.com.

The Company makes periodic SEC reports on Forms 10-Q and Forms 10-K, the Company s annual
report to shareholders and current press releases available free of charge through its website as
soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. In addition,
posted on the website are copies of the various corporate governance documents. From time to time,
other important disclosures to investors are provided by posting them in the press release or
upcoming events section of the website, as allowed by SEC rules.

Materials filed with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 450
Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference
Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet
website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding the Company that have been filed electronically with the SEC.

BUSINESS STRATEGY 

The majority of Panhandle s revenues are derived from the production and sale of oil and
natural gas. See  Item 8   Financial Statements . The Company s oil and gas holdings, including
its mineral acreage and its working and royalty interests in producing wells are centered in
Oklahoma with some activity in New Mexico, Texas, Arkansas and Kansas. See  Item 2   Description
of Properties .

(1) 

Table of Contents   

Exploration and development of the Company s oil and gas properties are conducted in association
with operating oil and gas companies, primarily larger independent companies. The Company does not
operate any of its oil and gas properties, but has been an active working interest participant for
many years in wells drilled on the Company s mineral properties and in third party drilling
prospects. A large percentage of the Company s recent drilling participations have been on
properties in which the Company has mineral acreage and, in many cases, already owns an interest in
a producing well in the unit.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS AND MARKETS 

The Company s principal products are crude oil and natural gas. These products are sold to
various purchasers, including pipeline and marketing companies, which service the areas where the
Company s producing wells are located. Since the Company does not operate any of the properties in
which it owns an interest, it relies on the operating expertise of numerous companies that operate
in the areas where the Company owns interests. This expertise includes the drilling and completion
of new wells, producing well operations and, in most cases, the marketing or purchasing of the
well s production. Natural gas sales are principally handled by the well operator and are normally
contracted on a monthly basis with third party gas marketers and pipeline companies. Payment for
gas sold is received either from the contracted purchasers or the well operator. Crude oil sales
are generally handled by the well operator and payment for oil sold is received from the well
operator or from the crude oil purchaser.

In general, prices of oil and gas are dependent on numerous factors beyond the control of the
Company, such as competition, international events and circumstances, supply and demand, actions
taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ), and economic, political and
regulatory developments. Since demand for natural gas is generally highest during winter months,
prices received for the Company s natural gas are subject to seasonal variations. The Company had
not, through fiscal 2006, engaged in price hedging on its oil or gas production.

Beginning in calendar 2007 the Company has entered in hedging arrangements to reduce the
Company s exposure to short-term fluctuations in the price of natural gas. The hedging
arrangements apply to only a portion of the Company s production and provide only partial price
protection against declines in natural gas prices. These hedging arrangements may expose the
Company to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit of future increases in prices. A more
thorough discussion of the hedging arrangements is contained in the Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation section of this report contained in Item
7.

COMPETITIVE BUSINESS CONDITIONS 

The oil and gas industry is highly competitive, particularly in the search for new oil and gas
reserves. There are many factors affecting Panhandle s competitive position and the market for its
products which are beyond its control. Some of these factors include the quantity and price of
foreign oil imports, changes in prices received for its oil and gas production, business and
consumer demand for refined oil products and natural gas, and the effects of federal and state
regulation of the exploration for, production of and sales of oil and natural gas. Changes in
existing economic conditions, weather patterns and actions taken by OPEC and other oil-producing
countries have dramatic influence on the price Panhandle receives for its oil and gas production.
The Company relies heavily on companies with greater resources, staff, equipment, research, and
experience for operation of wells and the development and drilling of subsurface prospects. The
Company uses its strong financial base and its mineral acreage ownership, coupled with its own
geologic and economic evaluation, to participate in drilling operations with these larger
companies. This method allows the Company to effectively compete in drilling operations it could
not undertake on its own due to financial and personnel limits and allows it to maintain low
overhead costs.

(2) 

Table of Contents   

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS 

The existence of commercial oil and gas reserves is essential to the ultimate realization of
value from the Company s mineral acreage. These mineral properties and leasehold acreage may be
considered a raw material to its business. The production and sale of oil and natural gas from the
Company s properties is essential to provide the cash flow necessary to sustain the ongoing
viability of the Company. The Company continues to reinvest a portion of its cash flow, after debt
service, to the purchase of oil and gas leasehold acreage and, to a lesser extent, additional
mineral acreage, to assure the continued availability of acreage with which to participate in
exploration, drilling, and development operations and subsequently the production and sale of oil
and gas. This participation in exploration and production activities and the purchasing of
additional acreage is necessary to continue to supply the Company with the raw materials with which
to generate additional cash flow. Mineral and leasehold purchases are made from many owners, and
the Company does not rely on any particular companies or individuals for these acquisitions.

MAJOR CUSTOMERS 

The Company s oil and gas production is sold, in most cases, by the well operators to many
different purchasers on a well-by-well basis. During fiscal 2006, sales through two separate
operators accounted for approximately 14% and 11%, respectively, of the Company s total revenues.
Generally, if one purchaser declines to continue purchasing the Company s oil and natural gas,
several other purchasers can be located. Pricing is usually reasonably consistent from purchaser
to purchaser.

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, LICENSES, FRANCHISES AND ROYALTY AGREEMENTS 

The Company does not own any patents, trademarks, licenses or franchises. Royalty agreements
on producing oil and gas wells stemming from the Company s ownership of mineral acreage generate a
portion of the Company s revenues. These royalties are tied to the ownership of the mineral
acreage and this ownership is perpetual, unless sold by the Company. Royalties are due and payable
to the Company whenever oil and/or gas is produced from wells located on the Company s mineral
acreage.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION 

Oil and gas production is subject to various taxes, such as gross production taxes and, in
some cases, ad valorem taxes.

The State of Oklahoma and other states require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds
and reports concerning operations and impose other regulations relating to the exploration and
production of oil and gas. These states also have regulations addressing conservation matters,
including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties and the regulation of
spacing, plugging and abandonment of wells. As previously discussed, the well operators are relied
upon by Panhandle to comply with governmental regulations.

Various aspects of the Company s oil and gas operations are regulated by agencies of the
federal government. The transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce is generally
regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( FERC ) pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of
1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ( NGPA ). The intrastate transportation and gathering
of natural gas (and operational and safety matters related thereto) may be subject to regulation by
state and local governments.

FERC s jurisdiction over interstate natural gas sales was substantially modified by the NGPA
under which FERC continued to regulate the maximum selling prices of certain categories of gas sold
in  first sales  in interstate and intrastate commerce. Effective January 1, 1993, however, the
Natural Gas

(3) 

Table of Contents   

Wellhead Decontrol Act (the  Decontrol Act ) deregulated natural gas prices for all  first sales 
of natural gas. Because  first sales  include typical wellhead sales by producers, all natural gas
produced from the Company s natural gas properties is sold at market prices, subject to the terms
of any private contracts in effect. FERC s jurisdiction over natural gas transportation was not
affected by the Decontrol Act.

Sales of natural gas are affected by intrastate and interstate gas transportation regulation.
Beginning in 1985, FERC adopted regulatory changes that have significantly altered the
transportation and marketing of natural gas. These changes were intended by FERC to foster
competition by transforming the role of interstate pipeline companies from wholesale marketers of
natural gas to the primary role of gas transporters. As a result of the various omnibus rulemaking
proceedings in the late 1980 s and the individual pipeline restructuring proceedings of the early
to mid-1990 s, interstate pipelines must provide open and nondiscriminatory transportation and
transportation-related services to all producers, natural gas marketing companies, local
distribution companies, industrial end users and other customers seeking service. Through similar
orders affecting intrastate pipelines that provide similar interstate services, FERC expanded the
impact of open access regulations to intrastate commerce.

More recently, FERC has pursued other policy initiatives that have affected natural gas
marketing. Most notable are: (1) the large-scale divestiture of interstate pipeline-owned gas
gathering facilities to affiliated or non-affiliated companies; (2) further development of rules
governing the relationship of the pipelines with their marketing affiliates; (3) the publication of
standards relating to the use of electronic bulletin boards and electronic data exchange by the
pipelines to make available transportation information on a timely basis and to enable transactions
to occur on a purely electronic basis; (4) further review of the role of the secondary market for
released pipeline capacity and its relationship to open access service in the primary market; and
(5) development of policy and promulgation of orders pertaining to its authorization of
market-based rates (rather than traditional cost-of-service based rates) for transportation or
transportation-related services upon the pipeline s demonstration of lack of market control in the
relevant service market.

As a result of these changes, sellers and buyers of natural gas have gained direct access to
the particular pipeline services they need and are able to conduct business with a larger number of
counter parties. These changes generally have improved the access to markets for natural gas while
substantially increasing competition in the natural gas marketplace. What new or different
regulations FERC and other regulatory agencies may adopt or what effect subsequent regulations may
have on production and marketing of natural gas from the Company s properties cannot be predicted.

Sales of oil are not regulated and are made at market prices. The price received from the
sale of oil is affected by the cost of transporting it to market. Much of that transportation is
through interstate common carrier pipelines. Effective January 1, 1995, FERC implemented
regulations generally grandfathering all previously approved interstate transportation rates and
establishing an indexing system for those rates by which adjustments are made annually based on the
rate of inflation, subject to certain conditions and limitations. These regulations may tend to
increase the cost of transporting oil by interstate pipeline, although the annual adjustments may
result in decreased rates in a given year. These regulations have generally been approved on
judicial review. Every five years, FERC will examine the relationship between the annual change in
the applicable index and the actual cost changes experienced by the oil pipeline industry.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

As the Company is directly involved in the extraction and use of natural resources, it is
subject to various federal, state and local provisions regarding environmental and ecological
matters. Compliance with these laws may necessitate significant capital outlays; however, to date
the Company s cost of

(4) 

Table of Contents   

compliance has been insignificant. The Company does not believe the existence of these
environmental laws will materially hinder or adversely affect the Company s business operations;
however, there can be no assurances of future events. Since the Company does not operate any wells
where it owns an interest, actual compliance with environmental laws is controlled by the well
operators, with Panhandle being responsible for its proportionate share of the costs involved.
Panhandle carries liability insurance and, to the extent available at reasonable cost, pollution
control coverage. However, all risks are not insured due to the availability and cost of
insurance.

EMPLOYEES 

At September 30, 2006, Panhandle employed sixteen persons on a full-time basis. Four of the
employees are executive officers and the co-presidents are also directors of the Company.

RISK FACTORS 

In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors
should be considered in evaluating the Company s business and future prospects. The risk factors
described below are not necessarily exhaustive and investors are encouraged to perform their own
investigation with respect to the Company and its business. Investors should also read the other
information in this Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes.

Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Volatility in oil and natural gas prices can adversely
affect results and the price of the Company s common stock. This volatility also makes valuation
of oil and natural gas producing properties difficult and can disrupt markets. 

Oil and natural gas prices have historically been, and will likely continue to be, volatile.
The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to a number of
factors, including:

relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; 

market uncertainty; 

worldwide economic conditions; 

weather conditions; 

import prices; 

political conditions in major oil producing regions, especially the Middle East; 

actions taken by OPEC; 

competition from alternative sources of energy; and 

economic, political and regulatory developments. 

Price volatility makes it difficult to budget and project the return on exploration and
development projects and to estimate with precision the value of producing properties that are
owned or acquired. In addition, unusually volatile prices often disrupt the market for oil and
natural gas properties, as buyers and sellers have more difficulty agreeing on the purchase price
of properties. Quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of, among
other things, variations in oil and natural gas prices and production performance. In recent
years, oil and natural gas price volatility has become increasingly severe.

A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices would have a material adverse
effect on the Company. 

A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices would have a material adverse
effect on the Company s financial position, results of operations, access to capital and the
quantities of oil and natural gas that may be economically produced. A significant decrease in
price levels for an

(5) 

Table of Contents   

extended period would have a negative effect in several ways, including:

cash flow would be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital expenditures
employed to replace reserves or increase production; 

certain reserves may no longer be economic to produce, leading to both lower proved
reserves and cash flow; and 

access to sources of capital, such as equity or long-term debt markets, could be
severely limited or unavailable. 

Lower oil and natural gas prices may cause impairment charges. 

The Company has elected to utilize the successful efforts method of accounting for its oil and
gas exploration and development activities. Exploration expenses, including geological and
geophysical costs, rentals and exploratory dry holes, are charged against income as incurred.
Costs of successful wells and related production equipment and development dry holes are
capitalized and amortized by property using the unit-of-production method as oil and gas is
produced.

All long-lived assets, principally the Company s oil and gas properties, are monitored for
potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may be
greater than its future net cash flows. The need to test a property for impairment may result from
significant declines in sales prices or unfavorable adjustments to oil and gas reserves. Any
assets held for sale are reviewed for impairment when the Company approves the plan to sell.
Because of the uncertainty inherent in these factors, the Company can not predict when or if future
impairment charges will be recorded. If an impairment charge is recognized, cash flow from
operating activities is not impacted but net income and, consequently, shareholders equity are
reduced.

Although the Company s estimated oil and natural gas reserve data is prepared by a consulting
engineering firm, estimates may still prove to be inaccurate. 

The Company s reserve data represents the estimates of Campbell and Associates, a consulting
petroleum engineering firm. Reserve estimates are prepared for all of the Company s properties
annually by the reservoir engineer with a limited review mid-year report also prepared.
Incorporated into reserve estimates are many factors and assumptions including:

expected reservoir characteristics based on geological, geophysical and engineering
assessments; 

future production rates based on historical performance and expected future
operating and investment activities; 

future oil and gas prices; and 

future development and operating costs. 

Management believes the assumptions are reasonable based on the information available at the
time of the estimates. However, actual results could vary considerably which could cause material
variances in the estimated quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves in the aggregate and
for a particular geographic location or future net revenues, including production, revenues, taxes
and development and operating expenditures. Any significant variation from these assumptions could
result in the actual quantity of reserves and future net cash flows being materially different from
the estimates. In addition, estimates of reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision
based upon production history, results of future exploration and development, prevailing oil and
natural gas prices, operating and development costs and other factors. Because a complete review
of reserve projections is only done at the end of the year, any material change in a reserve
estimate is included in subsequent reserve reports.

(6) 

Table of Contents   

Failure to find or acquire additional reserves will cause reserves and production to decline
materially from their current levels. 

The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are
depleted. The Company s proved reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced except to
the extent that the Company acquires additional properties containing proved reserves, conducts
successful exploration and development drilling, successfully applies new technologies or
identifies additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. Future oil and natural gas
production is therefore highly dependent upon the level of success in acquiring or finding
additional reserves. The above activities must be done with well operators, as the Company does
not operate any of its wells.

Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but
also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit
after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may
not achieve a targeted rate of return. The Company relies on the operators  seismic data and other
advanced technologies in identifying prospects and in conducting exploration activities. The
seismic data and other technologies used do not allow operators to know conclusively prior to
drilling a well whether oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically.

The ultimate cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is controlled by well operators
and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Further drilling operations may
be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including unexpected drilling
conditions, title problems, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or
accidents, adverse weather conditions, environmental and other governmental requirements and the
cost and availability of drilling rigs, equipment and services.

Oil and natural gas drilling and producing operations involve various risks. 

The Company is subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of
oil and natural gas properties and the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, including well
blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failures, fires, abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows
of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, release of contaminants into the environment and other
environmental hazards and risks.

The Company maintains insurance against many potential losses or liabilities arising from well
operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts believed to be prudent.
However, this insurance does not protect it against all operational risks. For example, the
Company does not maintain business interruption insurance. Additionally, pollution and
environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. These risks could give rise to significant
uninsured costs that could have a material adverse effect upon financial reports.

We can not control activities on properties we do not operate. 

The Company does not operate any of the properties in which it has an interest and has very
limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated
costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and the
limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially adversely affect the
realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and targeted
production growth rates. The success and timing of drilling, development and exploitation
activities on properties operated by others depend on a number of factors that are beyond the
Company s control, including the operator s expertise and financial resources, approval of other
participants for drilling wells and utilization of technology.

(7) 

Table of Contents   

Shortages of oil field equipment, services, qualified personnel and resulting cost increases could
adversely affect results of operations. 

The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field
operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas
industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing
periodic shortages. There have also been shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment, as demand
for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors
also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and
natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling
rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. These shortages or price increases
could adversely affect the Company s profit margin, cash flow and operating results, or restrict
its ability to drill wells and conduct ordinary operations.

ITEM 2 PROPERTIES 

As of September 30, 2006, Panhandle s principal properties consisted of perpetual ownership of
254,778 net mineral acres, held principally in tracts in Oklahoma, New Mexico and Texas and nine
other states. The Company also held leases on 20,742 net acres of minerals primarily in Oklahoma.
At September 30, 2006, Panhandle held royalty and/or working interests in 4,174 producing oil or
gas wells, and 41 wells in the process of being drilled or completed.

Panhandle does not have current abstracts or title opinions on all mineral properties owned
and, therefore, cannot be certain that it has unencumbered title to all of its properties. In
recent years, few challenges have been made against the Company s fee title to its properties.

Panhandle pays ad valorem taxes on its minerals owned in certain states.

(8) 

Table of Contents   

ACREAGE 

Mineral Interests 

The following table of mineral interests owned reflects, as of September 30, 2006, in each
respective state, the number of net and gross acres, net and gross producing acres, net and gross
acres leased, and net and gross acres open (unleased).

(1) 
       
      Producing  represents the mineral acres in which Panhandle owns a royalty or working
interest in a producing well. 

(2) 
       
      Leased  represents the mineral acres owned by Panhandle that are leased to third parties but
not producing. 

(3) 
       
      Open  represents mineral acres owned by Panhandle that are not leased or in production. 

Leases 

The following table reflects net mineral acres leased from others, lease expiration dates, and
net leased acres held by production.

(9) 

Table of Contents   

PROVED RESERVES 

The following table summarizes estimates of the proved reserves of oil and gas held by
Panhandle. All reserves are located within the United States. Because the Company s non-producing
mineral and leasehold interests consist of various small interests in numerous tracts located
primarily in Oklahoma, New Mexico and Texas and because the Company is a non-operator and must rely
on third parties to propose and drill and operate producing wells, it is not feasible or possible
to provide estimates of all proved undeveloped reserves and associated future net revenues. The
Company is currently providing proved undeveloped reserve estimates for wells that it has a
substantial reason to believe will be drilled in the very near term. In many cases, this means the
Company has received some type of notice from the operator that a well will be drilled. All
reserve quantity estimates were prepared by Campbell   Associates, Inc., Norman, Oklahoma, a
consulting petroleum engineering firm. The Company s reserve estimates are not filed with any
other federal agency.

These reserves exclude approximately 1.2 to 1.6 Bcf of CO2 gas reserves for the years
presented.

Because the determination of reserves is a function of testing, evaluating, developing oil and
gas reservoirs and establishing a production decline history, along with product price
fluctuations, estimates will change as future information concerning individual reservoirs is
developed and as market conditions change. Estimated reserve quantities and future net revenues
are affected by changes in product prices, and these prices have varied substantially in recent
years and are expected to vary substantially from current pricing in the future. Proved developed
reserves are those expected to be recovered through existing well bores under existing economic and
operating conditions. Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that may be recovered from
undrilled acreage or units, but are limited to those sites directly offsetting established
production units, have sufficient geological data to indicate a reasonable expectation of
commercial success and the Company has reason to believe will be drilled in the very near term.

(10) 

Table of Contents   

ESTIMATED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS 

Set forth below are estimated future net cash flows with respect to Panhandle s proved
reserves (based on the estimated units set forth in the immediately preceding table) for the fiscal
year indicated, and the present value of such estimated future net cash flows, computed by applying
a 10% discount factor as required by the rules and regulations of the SEC. Estimated future net
cash flows have been computed by applying current prices at September 30 of each year to future
production of proved reserves less estimated future expenditures to be incurred with respect to the
development and production of such reserves. This pricing is based on SEC guidelines. No federal
or state income taxes are included in estimated costs. However, the amounts are net of operating
costs and production taxes levied by the respective states. Prices used for determining future
cash flows from oil and natural gas for the periods ended September 30, 2006, 2005, 2004 were as
follows: 2006   $60.50, $3.49; 2005   $64.18, $11.54; 2004   $44.68, $5.42. These future net cash
flows should not be construed as the fair market value of the Company s reserves. A market value
determination would need to include many additional factors, including anticipated oil and gas
price increases or decreases.

Estimated Future Net Cash Flows (before federal income taxes) 

10% Discounted Present Value of Estimated Future Net Cash Flows (before federal income taxes) 

The future net cash flows are net of immaterial amounts of future cash flow to be received
from CO2 reserves. The large decrease in the natural gas price for 2006 resulted in the decline of
future net cash flows in 2006.

OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION 

The following table sets forth the Company s net production of oil and gas for the fiscal
periods indicated.

Gas production includes 192,957, 183,743 and 176,605 Mcf of CO2 sold at average prices of
$.65, $.51 and $.41 per Mcf for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

(11) 

Table of Contents   

AVERAGE SALES PRICES AND PRODUCTION COSTS 

The following table sets forth unit price and cost data for the fiscal periods indicated.

(1) 
       
     Includes actual well operating costs only. 

(2) 
       
     Includes production taxes, compression, handling and marketing fees paid on
natural gas sales and other minor expenses associated with well operations. 

Approximately 28% of the Company s oil and gas revenue is generated from small royalty
interests in a few thousand wells. These royalty interests bear no share of the operating costs on
those producing wells.

GROSS AND NET PRODUCTIVE WELLS AND DEVELOPED ACRES 

The following table sets forth Panhandle s gross and net productive oil and gas wells as of
September 30, 2006. Panhandle owns fractional royalty interests or fractional working interests in
these wells. The Company does not operate any wells.

Information on multiple completions is not available from Panhandle s records, but the number
of such is insignificant.

As of September 30, 2006, Panhandle owned 345,106 gross developed mineral acres and 41,975 net
developed mineral acres. Panhandle has also leased from others 178,312 gross developed acres,
which contain 17,905 net developed acres.

UNDEVELOPED ACREAGE 

As of September 30, 2006, Panhandle owned 1,330,020 gross and 212,803 net undeveloped mineral
acres, and leases on 30,694 gross and 2,837 net acres.

(12) 

Table of Contents   

DRILLING ACTIVITY 

The following net productive development and exploratory wells and net dry development and
exploratory wells in which the Company had a fractional royalty or working interest were drilled
and completed during the fiscal years indicated. Also shown are the net wells purchased during
these periods.

PRESENT ACTIVITIES 

The following table sets forth the gross and net oil and gas wells drilling or testing as of
September 30, 2006, in which Panhandle owns a royalty or working interest. These wells are not yet
producing.

(13) 

Table of Contents   

OTHER FACILITIES 

The Company leases 9,944 square feet of office space in Oklahoma City, OK. The lease
obligation ends in 2009.

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT 

This report, including information included in, or incorporated by reference from, future
filings by the Company with the SEC, as well as information contained in written material, press
releases and oral statements, contain, or may contain, certain statements that are  forward-looking
statements  within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements, other than
statements of historical facts, included or incorporated by reference in this report, which address
activities, events or developments which are expected to, or anticipated will, or may, occur in the
future are forward-looking statements. The words  believes,   intends,   expects,   anticipates, 
 projects,   estimates,   predicts  and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking
statements.

These forward-looking statements include, among others, such things as: the amount and nature
of our future capital expenditures; wells to be drilled or reworked; prices for oil and natural
gas; demand for oil and natural gas; estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves; development
and infill drilling potential; drilling prospects; business strategy; production of oil and natural
gas reserves; and expansion and growth of our business and operations.

These statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by the Company in light of
experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments
as well as other factors believed appropriate in the circumstances. However, whether actual
results and development will conform to our expectations and predictions is subject to a number of
risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from our
expectations.

One should not place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements. The Company
does not currently intend to update forward-looking information and to release publicly the results
of any future revisions made to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after
the date of this report which reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

In order to provide a more thorough understanding of the possible effects of some of these
influences on any forward-looking statements made, the following discussion outlines certain
factors that in the future could cause consolidated results for 2007 and beyond to differ
materially from those that may be presented in any such forward-looking statement made by or on
behalf of the Company.

Commodity Prices.   The prices received for oil and natural gas production have a direct impact
on the Company s revenues, profitability and cash flows as well as the ability to meet its
projected financial and operational goals. The prices for natural gas and crude oil are heavily
dependent on a number of factors beyond the Company s control, including: the demand for oil and
natural gas; weather conditions in the continental United States (which can greatly influence the
demand for natural gas at any given time as well as the price we receive for such natural gas); and
the ability of current distribution systems in the United States to effectively meet the demand for
oil and natural gas at any given time, particularly in times of peak demand which may result
because of adverse weather conditions.

Oil prices are extremely sensitive to foreign influences based on political, social or
economic factors, any one of which could have an immediate and significant effect on the price and
supply of oil. In addition, prices of both natural gas and oil are becoming more and more
influenced by trading on the commodities markets which, at times, has increased the volatility
associated with these prices.

(14) 

Table of Contents   

Uncertainty of Oil and Natural Gas Reserves.   There are numerous uncertainties inherent in
estimating quantities of proved reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the
Company s control. The oil and natural gas reserve data included in this report represents only an
estimate of these reserves. Oil and natural gas reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact
process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in
an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves depend on a
number of variable factors, including historical production from the area compared with production
from other producing areas, and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future
operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs, and workover and remedial costs.

Some or all of these assumptions may vary considerably from actual results. For these
reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas, and estimates
of the future net cash flows from oil and natural gas reserves prepared by different engineers or
by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, oil and natural
gas reserve estimates may be subject to periodic downward or upward adjustments. Actual
production, revenues and expenditures with respect to oil and natural gas reserves will vary from
estimates, and those variances can be material.

The information regarding discounted future net cash flows included in this report is not
necessarily the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to
the Company s properties. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows
from proved oil and natural gas reserves are determined based on prices and costs as of the date of
the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net
cash flows are also affected, in part, by the amount and timing of oil and natural gas production,
supply and demand for oil and natural gas and increases or decreases in consumption.

In addition, the 10% discount factor required by the SEC for use in calculating discounted
future net cash flows for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount
factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and the risks associated with operations
of the oil and natural gas industry in general.

ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

There were no material legal proceedings involving Panhandle or Wood Oil as of the date of
this report.

ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

No matters were submitted to a vote of Panhandle s security holders during the fourth quarter
of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006.

(15) 

Table of Contents   

PART II  

ITEM 5 MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

The Company s Class A Common Stock ( Common Stock ) is listed on the American Stock
Exchange (symbol PHX). The following table sets forth the high and low trade prices of the Common
Stock during the periods indicated (all share and per share amounts are adjusted for the 2-for-1
stock split, effective on January 9, 2006):

As of December 4, 2006, there were 1,877 holders of record of Panhandle s Class A Common
Stock.

During the past two years, cash dividends have been declared and paid as follows on the Class
A Common Stock:

The Company s current line of credit loan agreement contains a provision limiting the paying
or declaring of a cash dividend to twenty percent of net cash flow provided by operating activities
from the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows of the preceding twelve-month period. See Note 4. to
the consolidated financial statements contained herein at  Item 8   Financial Statements , for a
further discussion of the loan agreement.

(16) 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

The following table summarizes consolidated financial data of the Company and should be read
in conjunction with the  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  and the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, including the Notes thereto,
included elsewhere in this report.

(17) 

Table of Contents   

All share and per share amounts are adjusted for the effects of 2-for-1 stock splits,
effective in January 2006 and in April 2004.

(A) 
       
     The Company uses the successful efforts method of accounting for its oil and
gas activities. 

(B) 
       
     Represents the income effect of the adoption of SFAS No. 143,  Accounting for
Asset Retirement Obligations  on October 1, 2003. See Note 1: Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements herein. 

(C) 
       
     Weighted average shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share
are the same in fiscal year 2006 due to the October 2005 amendment to the Deferred
Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. 

ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

General 

The Company s principal line of business is the production and sale of oil and natural gas.
Results of operations are dependent upon the quantity of production and the price obtained for such
production. Prices received by the Company for the sale of its oil and natural gas have fluctuated
significantly from period to period. These fluctuations affect the Company s ability to maintain
or increase its production from existing oil and gas properties and to explore, develop or acquire
new properties. Capital expenditures, which increased significantly in 2006, are expected to again
increase in 2007 which should translate into increased production volumes for the Company going
forward.

The following table reflects certain operating data for the periods presented:

2006 Compared to 2005 

Overview 

The Company recorded net income of $10,574,219 in 2006, compared to net income of $10,484,786
in 2005. Total revenues were higher in 2006 as a result of increased oil and gas sales generated
by increases in the average sales prices of oil and natural gas and increased sales volumes of

(18) 

Table of Contents   

natural gas in 2006 as compared to 2005. The revenue increases were offset by substantial
increases in depreciation, depletion and amortization and provision for impairment expense in 2006
as compared to 2005.

Revenues 

Total revenues increased $3,887,505 or 12% for 2006 as compared to 2005. The increase was the
result of a $5,766,317 increase in oil and natural gas sales revenues offset by a decline in lease
bonus revenues of $1,804,008. The increase in oil and gas sales revenues resulted from a 24% and
11% increase in the average sales price for oil and natural gas, respectively, and a 7% increase in
gas sales volumes. The decrease in lease bonus revenue in 2006 is a result of the Company leasing
all of its non-producing mineral acreage in Arkansas in 2005. The total lease bonus, net of
associated basis, was $1,879,467, as compared to normal leasing activity in 2006. The table above
outlines the Company s production and average sales prices for oil and natural gas for 2006 and
2005.

The continuing increase in drilling expenditures and the Company s stated goal of increasing
its working interest percentage in new wells drilled is expected to result in continuing increased
production volumes for gas in 2007, as compared to 2006. The Company has announced a significant
increase, to $31.5 million, in its drilling budget for 2007. Drilling continues to be concentrated
on natural gas prospects and new wells expected to be put on line in 2007 should continue to more
than replace the decline of existing well production.

Production by quarter for 2006 was as follows;

Lease Operating Expenses and Production Taxes (LOE) 

LOE increased $175,499 or 6% in 2006. The increase is a result of new larger ownership wells
going on line in 2006, as new wells normally have higher operating costs the first several months
of production, the continuing increase in the number of wells in which the Company has an interest
and general oilfield price increases. In addition water disposal costs on one new well have been
disproportionately high. LOE costs per mcfe of production were $.63 in 2006 as compared to $.62 in
2005.

Production Taxes: 

Production taxes increased $284,740 or 15% in 2006. The increase is the result of the higher
oil and gas revenues in 2006, as production taxes are paid as a percentage of these revenues.

Exploration Costs 

Exploration costs decreased $561,849 in 2006 as compared to 2005. This decrease is
principally the result of three higher cost exploratory dry holes drilled in 2005 as compared to
only one in 2006. Since the Company utilizes the successful efforts method of accounting for oil
and gas operations, only exploratory dry holes result in their costs being charged to exploration
costs. Also, the Company s charge to exploration costs for leasehold deemed worthless or the lease
term had expired was higher in 2005.

(19) 

Table of Contents   

Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (DD A)  

DD A increased $2,635,796 or 35% in 2006. The increase is a result of higher costs in 2006 on
new wells as general oilfield price increases have been substantial the last two years. These
higher costs then must be depreciated. In addition, projected remaining production volumes were
reduced on some wells, which then increases current DD A costs. Further, high initial production
rates and the inordinate amount of certain wells total estimated reserves being produced rapidly
causes DD A to be heavily weighted to the front end of these wells lives.

Provision for Impairment 

The provision for impairment increased $2,777,658 in 2006 as compared to 2005. The impairment
provision in 2005 benefited from higher natural gas prices used in the fair value calculations as
compared to substantially lower prices used in the 2006 calculation. Natural gas prices declined
dramatically during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006, and were at a low point for fiscal 2006 at
September 30. Market price for natural gas affects the economic evaluation of properties and the
potential impairment calculation. The 2006 provision was principally the result of one 27 well
field in which the more recent wells drilled were not as good as earlier well results. The last
well drilled in the field, which was a large interest well (25%), resulted in a poor well and
caused the entire field to be in an impaired status. This field s carrying value was impaired by
approximately $1.9 million. An adjacent one well field also incurred a $.5 million impairment in
2006.

Loss on Sale of Assets 

Loss on sale of assets decreased $172,170 in 2006 as compared to 2005. Several low performing
properties were sold in 2005 at a loss, with one group of wells sold at a loss of approximately
$200,000. In 2006, one property was sold at a loss of $94,275, and other insignificant sales
accounted for the remaining $25,007.

General and Administrative Costs (G A) 

G A costs decreased $1,209,309 or 27% in 2006. The decrease is the result of an amendment to
the Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan (the Plan). Effective October 19, 2005 the Plan was
amended so that on retirement, termination or death of the director or on a change in control of
the Company, the shares accrued under the Plan will be issued to the director. This amendment
removed the conversion to cash option available under the Plan, which eliminated the requirement to
adjust the deferred compensation liability for changes in the market value of the Company s common
stock after October 19, 2005. The adjustment of the liability to market value of the shares at the
closing price on October 19, 2005 resulted in a credit to G A of approximately $288,000 as compared
to a charge of approximately $990,000 in 2005. In addition, the deferred compensation liability
after the October 19, 2005 adjustment was reclassified to stockholders  equity.

Interest Expense 

Interest expense decreased in 2006 due to lower outstanding debt balances.

Provision for Income Taxes 

The 2006 provision for income taxes was basically flat as compared to 2005, as income before
provision for income tax increased only $84,433. The Company utilizes excess percentage depletion
to reduce its effective tax rate from the federal statutory rate. The effective tax rate was 30.3%
for 2006 and 30.5% for 2005.

(20) 

Table of Contents   

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

At September 30, 2006, the Company had positive working capital of $4,997,714 as compared to
$3,470,006 at September 30, 2005. The increase is a result of an income tax receivable created by
the estimated federal income tax payment made in March 2006 and the directors  deferred
compensation liability being reclassified to equity in October 2005. These items were offset by an
increase in accounts payable, relating to increased drilling expenditures. Capital expenditures
increased and will continue to increase as the Company implements its strategy of increasing the
average working interest in new wells drilled, the costs for drilling rigs, field services and
equipment continue to increase and the drilling of gas resource wells continues to increase in
number.

Cash flow from operating activities increased 38% over last year. Capital expenditures for
oil and gas activities for 2006 amounted to $22,624,040, as compared to $14,741,637 for 2005.
Management currently expects capital expenditures for oil and gas activities to be approximately
$33,000,000 for 2007. This includes expected well drilling and equipment costs of $31.5 million
and $1.5 for both leasehold acreage purchases and workover expenses on existing wells. The $31.5
million drilling budget is expected to include expenditures of approximately $14.5 million on gas
resource drilling projects principally in southeast Oklahoma and west Texas, $12.5 million on
drilling projects in western Oklahoma and $4.5 million in onshore Gulf Coast drilling projects.
Any acquisition of oil and gas properties would further increase capital expenditures.

The Company has historically funded capital expenditures, overhead costs and dividend payments
from operating cash flow and has utilized, at times, its bank revolving line-of-credit facility to
help fund these expenditures. The borrowing base of the current bank line-of-credit can be
substantially increased if needed. The $50 million facility currently has a $10 million borrowing
base which could probably be expanded up to the $50 million maximum, if needed. The borrowing base
is set by the Company to minimize the fee on the unused portion of the borrowing base. Based on
expected natural gas production volumes and prices for fiscal 2007, the expected capital
expenditure level discussed above, and no meaningful acquisitions of oil and gas properties,
borrowings of $10-15 million in fiscal 2007 are possible. Changes in production volumes or pricing
or an acceleration or slowing down of the development in the gas resource projects would materially
affect anticipated borrowings.

Contractual Obligations 

In October 2006, the Company refinanced its credit facility with BancFirst of Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma with a credit facility from Bank of Oklahoma (BOK). The BOK Agreement consists of a term
loan in the amount of $2,500,000 and a revolving loan in the amount of $50,000,000 which is subject
to a semi-annual borrowing base determination. The current borrowing base under the BOK Agreement
is $10,000,000. The term loan matures on September 1, 2007, and the revolving loan matures on
October 31, 2009. Monthly payments, beginning December 1, 2006, on the term loan are $250,000,
plus accrued interest. Borrowings under the revolving loan are due at maturity. The term loan
bears interest at 30 day LIBOR plus .75%. The revolving loan bears interest at the national prime
rate minus from 1.375% to .75%, or 30 day LIBOR plus from 1.375% to 2.0%. The interest rate
charged will be based on the percent of the value advanced of the calculated loan value of
Panhandle s oil and gas reserves. The interest rate spread from LIBOR or prime increases as a
larger percent of the loan value of Panhandle s oil and gas properties is advanced.

Determinations of the borrowing base are made semi-annually or whenever the bank, in its sole
discretion, believes there has been a material change in the value of the oil and gas properties.
The loan agreement contains customary covenants which, among other things, require periodic
financial and reserve reporting and limit the Company s incurrence of indebtedness, liens,
dividends and acquisitions of treasury stock, and require the Company to maintain certain financial
ratios. At September 30, 2006,

(21) 

Table of Contents   

the Company was in compliance with the covenants of the BancFirst agreement.

The table below summarizes the Company s contractual obligations, under the BancFirst
facility, as of September 30, 2006:

Hedging 

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company entered into the following three natural gas collar
contracts.

2005 Compared to 2004 

Overview 

The Company recorded net income of $10,484,786 in 2005, compared to net income of $6,729,825
in 2004. Revenues and consequently net income were larger as a result of increased oil and gas
sales revenues generated by significant increases in the average sales prices of oil and natural
gas in 2005 as compared to 2004. In addition, the Company was able to increase lease bonus revenue
by approximately $2,100,000 in 2005. New leasing activity was the result of an industry wide
increase in drilling activity brought on by the increased market price of oil and gas.

Revenues 

Total revenues increased 35% to $33,306,723 in 2005 compared to $24,606,609 in 2004. The
majority of the increase was due to increases in the average sales price for oil and natural gas in
2005 per the above operating data. New production from the Company s drilling activity more than
replaced the normal production decline of existing gas wells and the sale in 2005 of approximately
3% (on an annualized basis) of the Company s gas production. These sales of non-core assets were
accomplished throughout 2005. Gas production increased 4% for the year in spite of the asset
sales. Oil wells beginning production in 2005 could not replace the decline in existing oil
production. As the Company is concentrating on the drilling of gas wells, this trend of increasing
gas production and decreasing oil production should continue.

(22) 

Table of Contents   

Lease bonus revenue increased $2,099,054 in 2005, substantially all of which is due to the
leasing of all of the Company s non-producing mineral acreage in Arkansas. The total lease bonus, net of
associated basis, for the approximate 9,000 Arkansas mineral acres was $1,879,467.

Lease Operating Expenses and Production Taxes (LOE) 

LOE continues to increase each year due to increases in the number of working interest wells
in which the Company has an interest, increasing repairs and maintenance needed for existing older
wells and normal inflation of costs. Actual well operating costs were $2,877,972 in 2005 as
compared to $2,592,911 in 2004. Gross production taxes are paid as a percentage of oil and gas
sales revenues and therefore increased in 2005 to $1,924,623, an increase of $419,410 over 2004.

Exploration Costs 

Exploration costs increased $547,802 or 231% in 2005 as compared to 2004. Since the Company
utilizes the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas operations, only exploratory
dry holes result in their costs being charged to exploration costs. In 2004, there were no high
cost exploratory dry holes as compared to three such wells in 2005.

Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (DD A)  

DD A increased $1,391,071 or 23% in 2005 as compared to 2004. Increased DD A expenses in
2005, as compared to 2004, are a result of rapid decline rates on many wells which have been
drilled and gone on production in the last two years coupled with higher costs on these recently
completed wells, which then must be depreciated. The high initial production rates result in an
inordinate amount of the wells  total estimated reserves being produced rapidly, which then causes
the units of production DD A being heavily weighted to the front end of these wells  lives.

Provision for Impairment 

The provision for impairment decreased $609,392 or 72% in 2005 as compared to 2004. The
decrease in impairment charges was principally the result of increased market prices for oil and
natural gas. Higher market prices dramatically change the economic evaluation of properties and
the calculation of potential impairment.

General and Administrative Costs (G A) 

G A costs increased $1,511,771 or 50% in 2005. Personnel related expenses (including
salaries, payroll taxes, insurance and ESOP expenses) increased approximately $250,000 in 2005.
Professional fees including; audit, oil and gas land brokers, engineering and Sarbanes-Oxley
internal control review assistance increased $291,000 in 2005 as compared to 2004. G A expense
related to the Non-Employee Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) increased
approximately $682,000 in 2005. The increase resulted from the Company recognizing a charge to G A
to adjust the potential shares (approximately 31,000 shares) in the Plan to market price at
September 30, 2005. The non-employee directors have elected to defer payment of directors  fees
with future payment (in cash or shares) indexed to the Company s stock performance. Subsequent to
2005 fiscal year end, the Company s board of directors voted to amend the Plan to provide future
payment only in common stock of the Company. That change will eliminate the requirement to adjust
the liability for changes in market price of the Company s common stock for 2006 and future fiscal
periods.

(23) 

Table of Contents   

Interest Expense 

Interest expense decreased $128,570 or 26% in 2005 because of lower average outstanding bank
debt balances.

Provision for Income Taxes 

The provision for income taxes increased in 2005 due to a substantial increase in income
before taxes (as discussed above). The Company continued to be able to utilize excess percentage
depletion on its oil and gas properties to reduce its tax liability, and its effective tax rate
from the federal and state statutory rates. The effective tax rate was approximately 30% in 2005,
31% in 2004 and 27% in 2003.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities. However, the accounting principles used by the Company
generally do not change the Company s reported cash flows or liquidity. Generally, accounting
rules do not involve a selection among alternatives, but involve a selection of the appropriate
policies for applying the basic principles. Interpretation of the existing rules must be done and
judgments made on how the specifics of a given rule apply to the Company.

The more significant reporting areas impacted by management s judgments and estimates are
crude oil and natural gas reserve estimation, impairment of assets, oil and gas sales revenue
accruals and tax accruals. Management s judgments and estimates in these areas are based on
information available from both internal and external sources, including engineers, geologists and
historical experience in similar matters. Actual results could differ from the estimates as
additional information becomes known. The oil and gas sales revenue accrual is particularly
subject to estimates due to the Company s status as a non-operator on all of its properties.
Production information obtained from well operators is substantially delayed. This causes the
estimation of recent production, used in the oil and gas revenue accrual, to be subject to some
variations.

Oil and Gas Reserves 

Of these judgments and estimates, management considers the estimation of crude oil and nature
gas reserves to be the most significant. These estimates affect the unaudited standardized measure
disclosures, as well as DD A and impairment calculations. Changes in crude oil and natural gas
reserve estimates affect the Company s calculation of depreciation, depletion and amortization,
provision for abandonment and assessment of the need for asset impairments. On an annual basis,
with a limited scope semi-annual update, the Company s consulting engineer, with assistance from
Company geologists, prepares estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves based on available
geologic and seismic data, reservoir pressure data, core analysis reports, well logs, analogous
reservoir performance history, production data and other available sources of engineering,
geological and geophysical information. As required by the guidelines and definitions established
by the SEC, these estimates are based on current crude oil and natural gas pricing. Crude oil and
natural gas prices are volatile and largely affected by worldwide production and consumption and
are outside the control of management. Projected future crude oil and natural gas pricing
assumptions are used by management to prepare estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves used
in formulating management s overall operating decisions in the exploration and production segment.

(24) 

Table of Contents   

Successful Efforts Method of Accounting 

The Company has elected to utilize the successful efforts method of accounting for its oil and
gas exploration and development activities. Exploration expenses, including geological and
geophysical costs, rentals and exploratory dry holes, are charged against income as incurred.
Costs of successful wells and related production equipment and developmental dry holes are
capitalized and amortized by property using the unit-of-production method as oil and gas is
produced. This accounting method may yield significantly different operating results than the full
cost method.

Impairment of Assets 

All long-lived assets, principally oil and gas properties, are monitored for potential
impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may be greater than its
future net cash flows. The evaluations involve significant judgment since the results are based on
estimated future events, such as inflation rates, future sales prices for oil and gas, future
production costs, estimates of future oil and gas reserves to be recovered and the timing thereof,
the economic and regulatory climates and other factors. The need to test a property for impairment
may result from significant declines in sales prices or unfavorable adjustments to oil and gas
reserves. Any assets held for sale are reviewed for impairment when the Company approves the plan
to sell. Estimates of anticipated sales prices are highly judgmental and subject to material
revision in future periods. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these factors, the Company can
not predict when or if future impairment charges will be recorded.

Oil and Gas Sales Revenue Accrual 

The Company does not operate any of its oil and gas properties, and it primarily holds small
interests in approximately 4,000 wells. Thus, obtaining timely production data from the well
operators is extremely difficult. This requires the Company to utilize past production receipts to
estimate its oil and gas sales revenue accrual at the end of each quarterly period. The oil and gas
accrual can be impacted by many variables, including initial high production rates of new wells and
subsequent rapid decline rates of those wells. This could lead to an over or under accrual of oil
and gas sales at the end of any particular quarter. Based on past history, the estimated accrual
has been materially accurate.

Income Taxes 

The estimation of the amounts of income tax to be recorded by the Company involves
interpretation of complex tax laws and regulations as well as the completion of complex
calculations, including the determination of the Company s percentage depletion deduction.
Although the Company s management believes its tax accruals are adequate, differences may occur in
the future depending on the resolution of pending and new tax laws, regulations and
interpretations.

The above description of the Company s critical accounting policies is not intended to be an
all-inclusive discussion of the uncertainties considered and estimates made by management in
applying accounting principles and policies. Results may vary significantly if different policies
were used or required and if new or different information becomes known to management.

ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK 

The Company s results of operations and operating cash flows can be significantly impacted by
changes in market prices for oil and gas. Based on the Company s 2006 production, a $.10 per Mcf
change in the price received for natural gas production would result in a corresponding $430,000
annual change in pre-tax operating cash flow. A $1.00 per barrel change in the price received for
oil production would result in a corresponding $97,000 annual change in pre-tax operating cash
flow. Cash flows could

(25) 

Table of Contents   

also be impacted, to a lesser extent, by changes in the market interest
rates related to the Company s
credit facilities. The term loan bears interest at 30 day LIBOR plus .75%. The revolving loan
bears interest at the national prime rate minus from 1.375% to .75%, or 30 day LIBOR plus from
1.375% to 2.0%. At September 30, 2006, the Company had $3,166,653 outstanding under these
facilities. A change of .5% in the prime rate or on LIBOR would result in a change to interest
expense of $15,833.

ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(26) 

Table of Contents   

Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
Act ) as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company s principal executive and
principal financial officers and effected by the Company s board of directors, management and other
personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; 

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and 

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements. 

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Internal control
over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting
objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a
process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and
breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting also can be
circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there is a
risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal
control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the
financial reporting process. Therefore, it is possible to design into the process safeguards to
reduce, though not eliminate, this risk.

The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006. In making this assessment, the Company s management
used the criteria set forth in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on our assessment, management
has concluded that, as of September 30, 2006, the Company s internal control over financial
reporting was effective based on those criteria.

The Company s independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst   Young, LLP, has audited
our assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
of September 30, 2006, as stated in their report which follows.

(27) 

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Panhandle Royalty Company

We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying  Management s Annual Report
on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting , that Panhandle Royalty Company (the Company)
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on
criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO criteria). The Company s management is responsible
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management s assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on
the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on the COSO
criteria . 

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of September 30, 2006 and
2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders  equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006 and our report dated December 6,
2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
December 6, 2006

(28) 

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Panhandle Royalty Company

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Panhandle Royalty Company (the
Company) as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30,
2006. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Panhandle Royalty Company at September 30, 2006
and 2005, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended September 30, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting
as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
December 6, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
December 6, 2006

(29) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(Continued on next page)

See accompanying notes. 

(30) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Consolidated Balance Sheets

See accompanying notes. 

(31) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company

Consolidated Statements of Income

See accompanying notes. 

(32) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity

See accompanying notes. 

(33) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(Continued on next page)

See accompanying notes. 

(34) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (continued)

See accompanying notes. 

(35) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Nature of Business 

Since its formation, the Company has been involved in the acquisition and management of fee
mineral acreage and the exploration for, and development of, oil and gas properties, principally
involving the drilling of wells located on the Company s mineral acreage. Panhandle s mineral
properties and other oil and gas interests are all located in the United States, primarily in
Oklahoma, New Mexico and Texas. The Company is not the operator of any wells. The majority of the
Company s oil and gas production is from small interests in several thousand wells located
principally in Oklahoma. Approximately 83% of oil and gas revenues are derived from the sale of
natural gas. Substantially all the Company s oil and gas production is being sold through the
operators of the wells. The Company from time to time disposes of certain non-material, non-core or
small interest oil and gas properties as a normal course of business.

Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Panhandle Royalty Company and
its wholly owned subsidiaries after elimination of all material intercompany transactions.

Capitalized costs of certain oil and gas properties and gains and losses on sales of assets
for prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

Of these judgments and estimates, management considers the estimation of crude oil and natural
gas reserves to be the most significant. Changes in crude oil and natural gas reserve estimates
affect the Company s calculation of depreciation, depletion and amortization, provision for
abandonment and assessment of the need for asset impairments. On an annual basis, with a limited
scope semi-annual update, the Company s consulting engineer with assistance from Company geologists
prepares estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves based on available geologic and seismic
data, reservoir pressure data, core analysis reports, well logs, analogous reservoir performance
history, production data and other available sources of engineering, geological and geophysical
information. As required by the guidelines and definitions established by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, these estimates are based on current crude oil and natural gas pricing. Crude
oil and natural gas prices are volatile and largely affected by worldwide consumption and are
outside the control of management. Projected future crude oil and natural gas pricing assumptions
are used by management to prepare estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves used in
formulating management s overall operating decisions in the exploration and production business.

(36) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

The Company does not operate any of its oil and gas properties, and it primarily holds small
interests in several thousand wells. Thus, obtaining timely production data from the well operators
is extremely difficult and in most cases substantially delayed. This causes the Company to utilize
past production receipts and estimated sales price information to estimate its oil and gas sales
revenue accrual at the end of each quarterly period. The oil and gas accrual can be impacted by
many variables, including the initial high production rates and possible rapid decline rates of
certain new wells and rapidly changing market prices for natural gas. The Company records an
accrual to actual adjustment in each succeeding quarter.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

Cash and cash equivalents consist of all demand deposits and funds invested in short-term
investments with original maturities of three months or less.

Oil and Gas Sales and Gas Imbalances 

The Company sells oil and natural gas to various customers, recognizing revenues as oil and
gas is produced and sold. The Company uses the sales method of accounting for gas imbalances in
those circumstances where it has underproduced or overproduced its ownership percentage in a
property. Under this method, a receivable or liability is recorded to the extent that an
underproduced or overproduced position in a reservoir cannot be recouped through the production of
remaining reserves. At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the Company had no material gas imbalances.

Charges for gathering and transportation are included in lease operating expenses and
production taxes.

Concentration of Credit Risk 

Substantially all of the Company s accounts receivable are due from purchasers of oil and
natural gas or operators of the oil and gas properties. Oil and natural gas sales are generally
unsecured. The Company has not experienced any meaningful credit losses in prior years and is not
aware of any uncollectible accounts at September 30, 2006 or 2005.

Oil and Gas Producing Activities 

The Company follows the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing
activities. Intangible drilling and other costs of successful wells and development dry holes are
capitalized and amortized. The costs of exploratory wells are initially capitalized, but charged
against income if and when the well is determined to be nonproductive. Oil and gas mineral and
leasehold costs are capitalized when incurred.

(37) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

Derivatives 

The Company had not, through fiscal 2006, entered into derivative instruments to hedge the
price risk on its oil or gas production. Beginning in calendar 2007 the Company has entered in
costless collar arrangements intended to reduce the Company s exposure to short-term fluctuations
in the price of natural gas. Collar contracts set a minimum price, or floor and provide for
payments to the Company if the reference price falls below the floor or require payments by the
Company if the reference price rises above the ceiling. These arrangements cover only a portion of
the Company s production and provide only partial price protection against declines in natural gas
prices. These economic hedging arrangements may expose the Company to risk of financial loss and
limit the benefit of future increases in prices.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company entered into the following three natural gas collar
contracts.

Depreciation, Depletion, Amortization, and Impairment 

Depreciation, depletion, and amortization of the costs of producing oil and gas properties are
generally computed using the units of production method primarily on a separate property basis
using proved reserves as estimated annually by a consulting petroleum engineer. Depreciation of
furniture and fixtures is computed using the straight-line method over estimated productive lives
of five to eight years.

Non-producing oil and gas properties include non-producing minerals, which have a net book
value of $5,680,765 at September 30, 2006, consisting of perpetual ownership of mineral interests
in several states, with 82% of the acreage in Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico. As mentioned these
mineral rights are perpetual and have been accumulated over the 80 year life of the Company. There
are approximately 213,000 acres of non-producing minerals in over 7,000 tracts owned by the
Company. An average tract contains 30 acres and the average cost per acre is $41. Since inception,
the Company has continually generated an interest in several thousand oil and gas wells using its
ownership of the fee mineral acres as an ownership basis. There continues to be significant
drilling activity each year on these mineral interests. Non-producing minerals are being amortized
over a thirty-three year period on the Company s books. These assets are considered a long-term
investment by the Company, they do not expire (as do oil and gas leases), in many cases the same
mineral acreage has seen several wells drilled

(38) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

over the span of several years and development of this acreage has been steady since the 1960 s.
Given the above it was concluded that a longer term amortization was appropriate and that 33 years,
based on past history and experience was a conservative range. Also, based on the fact that the
minerals consist of a large number of properties whose costs are not individually significant, and
virtually all are in the Company s core operating areas, the minerals are being amortized on an
aggregate basis.

In accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144,  Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets , the Company recognizes impairment losses for
long-lived assets when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows are not
sufficient to recover the assets  carrying amount. The impairment loss is measured by comparing the
fair value of the asset to its carrying amount. Fair values are based on discounted future cash
flows. The Company s oil and gas properties were reviewed for indicators of impairment on a
field-by-field basis, resulting in the recognition of impairment provisions of $3,009,953, $232,295
and $841,687 respectively, for 2006, 2005 and 2004. The majority of the impairment recognized in
2005 and 2004 relates to fields comprised of a small number of wells or single wells on which the
Company does not expect sufficient future net cash flow to recover its carrying cost. The
impairment in 2006 is principally the result of a twenty-seven well field in which the more recent
wells drilled were not up to earlier well results, and results of the last well drilled, which was
a large interest well, were poor resulting in an impairment of the entire field.

Investments 

Insignificant investments in partnerships and limited liability companies (LLC) that maintain
specific ownership accounts for each investor and where the Company holds an interest of five
percent or greater, but does not have control of the partnership or LLC, are accounted for using
the equity method of accounting. The cost method is used to account for the Company s investment in
one LLC where the Company holds an interest of less than one percent.

Asset Retirement Obligations 

The Company owns oil and natural gas properties which may require expenditures to plug and
abandon the wells when the oil and natural gas reserves in the wells are depleted. These
expenditures are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred (at the time the wells
are drilled or acquired). The Company does not have any assets restricted for the purpose of
settling the plugging liabilities.

The following table shows the activity for the year ended September 30, 2006 relating to the
Company s retirement obligation for plugging liability:

(39) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

Environmental Costs 

As the Company is directly involved in the extraction and use of natural resources, it is
subject to various federal, state and local provisions regarding environmental and ecological
matters. Compliance with these laws may necessitate significant capital outlays; however, to date
the Company s cost of compliance has been insignificant. The Company does not believe the existence
of these environmental laws will materially hinder or adversely affect the Company s business
operations; however, there can be no assurances of future events. Since the Company does not
operate any wells where it owns an interest, actual compliance with environmental laws is
controlled by others, with Panhandle being responsible for its proportionate share of the costs
involved. Panhandle carries liability insurance and to the extent available at reasonable cost,
pollution control coverage. However, all risks are not insured due to the availability and cost of
insurance.

Environmental liabilities, which historically have not been material, are recognized when it
is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of that loss is reasonably estimable.
Environmental liabilities, when accrued, are based upon estimates of expected future costs. At
September 30, 2006 and 2005, there were no such costs accrued.

Earning Per Share of Common Stock 

Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated using net income divided by the weighted average
of common shares outstanding (including unissued, vested directors  shares after October 19, 2005  
see Note 8) during the year. Diluted EPS is similar to basic EPS except that the weighted average
common shares outstanding is increased (for periods prior to October 19, 2005) to include the
number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential
common shares had been issued. The treasury stock method is used to calculate dilutive shares,
which reduces the gross number of dilutive shares (see Note 6).

Stock-based Compensation 

The Company recognizes current compensation costs for its Outside Directors Deferred
Compensation Plan (the  Plan ). Compensation cost is recognized for the requisite directors  fees
as earned and unissued stock is added to each director s account based on the closing price of the
stock at the date earned. Effective October 19, 2005 the Plan was amended such that upon
retirement, termination or death of the director or upon a change in control of the Company, the
shares accrued under the Plan will be issued to the director. This amendment removed the conversion
to cash option available under the Plan, resulting in reclassification to equity of the liability
under the Plan. Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) No. 123(R)  Share Based Payments.  Due to the nature of the Company s equity based
compensation the adoption of the standard did not have a material effect on the Company s financial
statements.

The Company applies SOP 93-6 in accounting for its non-leveraged Employee Stock Ownership
Plan. Under SOP 93-6 the Company records as expense, the fair market value of the stock at the time
of contribution.

(40) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

Fair Values of Financial Instruments 

The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents,
receivables, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, and income taxes payable approximate their fair
values due to the short maturity of these instruments. The fair value of Company s debt
approximates its carrying amount due to the interest rate on the Company s term-loan being a rate
which is approximately equivalent to market rates at September 30, 2006 for similar type debt based
on the Company s credit worthiness.

Income Taxes 

The estimation of the amounts of income tax to be recorded by the Company involves
interpretation of complex tax laws and regulations as well as the completion of complex
calculations, including the determination of the Company s percentage depletion deduction. Although
the Company s management believes its tax accruals are adequate, differences may occur in the
future depending on the resolution of pending and new tax matters.

New Accounting Pronouncements 

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections   a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3.  SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the
accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle and a change required by an
accounting pronouncement when the pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions.
SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective application of changes as if the new accounting principle had
always been used. SFAS No. 154 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005,
which is our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2006. The adoption of the pronouncement is not
expected to have a material impact on the Company s financial position or results of operations.

In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
interpretation of FASB Statement 109,  which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with FAS 109,  Accounting
for Income Taxes.  FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the
financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in
a tax return. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, which will be
our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2007. The adoption of this statement is not expected to have a
material impact on the Company s financial position or results of operations.

On September 13, 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 108 ( SAB 108 ), which provides interpretive guidance on how the effects of the
carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements should be considered in quantifying a current
year misstatement. SAB 108 is effective for the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006,
which will be our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2007. The adoption of this statement is not
expected to have a material impact on the Company s financial position or results of operations.

Other accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by the FASB or other
standards-setting bodies that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have
a material impact on the consolidated financial statements upon adoption.

(41) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

2. Commitments 

The Company leases office space in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma under the terms of an operating
lease expiring in April 2009. Future minimum rental payments under the terms of the lease are
$159,108 in 2007, $159,108 in 2008 and $92,813 in 2009. Total rent expense incurred by the Company
was $153,164 in 2006, $158,203 in 2005 and $115,192 in 2004.

3. Income Taxes 

The Company s provision for income taxes is detailed as follows:

The difference between the provision for income taxes and the amount which would result from
the application of the federal statutory rate to income before provision for income taxes is
analyzed below:

(42) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

3. Income Taxes (continued) 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities, resulting from differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities, consist of the following:

4. Long-term Debt 

Long-term debt consisted of the following at September 30:

In October 2006, the Company refinanced its credit facility with BancFirst of Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma (Bancfirst) with a new credit facility with Bank of Oklahoma (BOK). The BOK Agreement
consists of a term loan in the amount of $2,500,000 and a revolving loan in the amount of
$50,000,000 which is subject to a semi-annual borrowing base determination. The current borrowing
base under the BOK Agreement is $10,000,000. The term loan matures on September 1, 2007, and the
revolving loan matures on October 31, 2009. Monthly payments on the term loan are $250,000, plus
accrued interest. Borrowings under the revolving loan are due at maturity. The term loan bears
interest at 30 day LIBOR plus .75%. The revolving loan bears interest at the national prime rate
minus from 1.375% to .75%, or 30 day LIBOR plus from 1.375% to 2.0%. The interest rate charged will
be based on the percent of the value advanced of the calculated loan value of Panhandle s oil and
gas reserves. The interest rate spread from LIBOR or prime increases or decreases as a larger
percent of the loan value of Panhandle s oil and gas properties is advanced.

Determinations of the borrowing base are made semi-annually or whenever the bank, in its sole
discretion, believes that there has been a material change in the value of the oil and gas
properties. The loan agreement contains customary covenants which, among other things, require
periodic financial and reserve reporting and limit the Company s incurrence of indebtedness, liens,
dividends and acquisitions

(43) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

4. Long-term Debt (continued) 

of treasury stock, and require the Company to maintain certain financial ratios. At September 30,
2006, the Company was in compliance with the covenants of the BancFirst agreement.

The amounts of required principal payments under the BancFirst or the BOK agreement for the
next five years, as of September 30, 2006, are as follows:

5. Shareholders  Equity 

On December 18, 2003, the Company s Board of Directors approved a proposal to amend the
Company s Articles of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of Class A Common
Stock from 6,000,000 shares to 12,000,000 shares and effect a 2-for-1 stock split of the
outstanding Class A Common Stock and a corresponding reduction of the par value per share from
$.03333 to $.01666. On February 27, 2004, these proposals were put forth to a vote of the
shareholders, for which a majority of the shareholders voted in favor of each proposal, causing
these proposals to become effective on such date. The Class A Common Stock split was effected in
the form of a stock dividend, distributed on April 15, 2004, to stockholders of record on April 1,
2004.

On December 13, 2005, the Company s Board of Directors declared a 2-for-1 stock split of the
outstanding Class A Common Stock. The Class A Common Stock split was effected in the form of a
stock dividend, distributed on January 9, 2006 to stockholders of record on December 29, 2005.

All agreements concerning Common Stock of the Company, including the Company s Employee Stock
Ownership Plan and the Company s commitment under the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
Directors, provide for the issuance or commitment, respectively, of additional shares of the
Company s stock due to the declaration of the stock split. All references to number of shares, per
share, and authorized share information in the accompanying consolidated financial statements have
been adjusted to reflect the stock split and increase in authorized shares approved on February 27,
2004, at the Annual Meeting of the Stockholders of the Company and to reflect the stock split
distributed to stockholders on January 9, 2006.

(44) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

6. Earnings Per Share 

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share. The
Company s diluted earnings per share calculations in 2005 and 2004 takes into account certain
shares that may be issued under the Non-Employee Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan (see Note
8).

* 
       
     Not applicable   see Note 8. 

The weighted average shares outstanding, potentially dilutive shares, and earnings per share
for 2005 and 2004 have been restated to affect the 2-for-1 stock splits discussed in Note 5.

7. Employee Stock Ownership Plan 

The Company has an employee stock ownership plan that covers all employees and is established
to provide such employees with a retirement benefit. These benefits become fully vested after three
years of employment. Contributions to the plan are at the discretion of the Board of Directors and
can be made in cash (none in 2006, 2005 or 2004) or the Company s common stock. For contributions
of common stock, the Company records as expense, the fair market value of the stock at the time of
contribution. The 250,206 shares of the Company s common stock held by the plan as of September 30,
2006, are allocated to individual participant accounts, are included in the weighted average shares
outstanding for purposes of earnings per share computations and receive dividends which are
credited to the individual accounts. Contributions to the plan consisted of:

(45) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

8. Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors 

Effective November 1, 1994, the Company formed the Panhandle Royalty Company Deferred
Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the Plan). The Plan provides that each eligible
director can individually elect to receive shares of Company stock rather than cash for board and
committee chair retainers, board meeting fees and board committee meeting fees. These shares are
unissued and vest as earned. The shares are credited to each director s deferred fee account at the
closing market price of the
stock on the date earned. Because the original Plan contained an option allowing the directors to
convert the shares to cash upon separation from the Company, the liability was adjusted for
subsequent changes in market value of the shares. Upon retirement, termination or death of the
director or upon change in control of the Company, the shares accrued under the Plan would have
been either issued to the director or converted to cash, at the director s discretion, for the fair
market value of the shares on the conversion date, as defined by the Plan. As of September 30,
2006, 70,581 shares (62,412 shares at September 30, 2005) are included in the Plan. Effective
October 19, 2005 the Plan was amended such that upon retirement, termination or death of the
director or upon a change in control of the Company, the shares accrued under the Plan will be
issued to the director. This amendment removed the conversion to cash option available under the
Plan, which resulted in reclassification to stockholders  equity of the deferred shares outstanding
under the Plan. The deferred balance outstanding at September 30, 2006 under the Plan was
$1,202,569 ($1,335,305 at September 30, 2005). ($132,736), $1,111,097 and $344,551 was (credited)
charged to the Company s results of operations for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively, and is included in general and administrative expense in the accompanying
income statement. The majority (89%) of the $1,111,097 charged to operations in 2005 was the result
of the market prices of the Company s shares increasing from $17.20 per share at September 30, 2004
to $42.79 per share at September 30, 2005, thus requiring a charge to expense for the increase per
share times the number of shares in the Plan during the year.

9. Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities 

All oil and gas producing activities of the Company are conducted within the United States
(principally in Oklahoma) and represent substantially all of the business activities of the
Company.

During 2006 and 2005 approximately 14% and 17%, respectively, of the Company s total revenues
were derived from sales through Chesapeake Operating, Inc. During 2006 sales through JMA Energy
Company accounted for approximately 11% of the Company s total revenues. During 2004 sales through
Oneok, Inc. accounted for approximately 10% of the Company s total revenues.

(46) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

9. Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (continued) 

Aggregate Capitalized Costs 

The aggregate amount of capitalized costs of oil and gas properties and related accumulated
depreciation, depletion, and amortization as of September 30 is as follows:

Costs Incurred 

During the reporting period, the Company incurred the following costs in oil and gas producing
activities:

(1)    Property acquisition costs include $900,000 related to the acquisition of proved
properties.

10. Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Reserves (Unaudited) 

The following unaudited information regarding the Company s oil and natural gas reserves is
presented pursuant to the disclosure requirements promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) and SFAS No. 69,  Disclosures About Oil and Gas Producing Activities. 

Proved reserves are estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas which geological and
engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known
reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved developed reserves are those
proved reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment
and operating methods. Because the Company s non-producing mineral and leasehold interests consist
of various small interests in numerous tracts located primarily in Oklahoma, New Mexico, and Texas,
it is not economically feasible for the Company to provide estimates of all proved undeveloped
reserves.

(47) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

10. Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Reserves (Unaudited) (continued) 

The Company s net proved (including certain undeveloped reserves described above) oil and gas
reserves, all of which are located in the United States, as of September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
have been estimated by Campbell   Associates, Inc., a consulting petroleum engineering firm. All
studies have been prepared in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The reserve estimates were based on economic and operating conditions existing at
September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Since the determination and valuation of proved reserves is a
function of testing and estimation, the reserves presented should be expected to change as future
information becomes available.

Estimated Quantities of Proved Oil and Gas Reserves 

Net quantities of proved, developed, and undeveloped oil and gas reserves are summarized as
follows:

(48) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

10. Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Reserves (Unaudited) (continued) 

The above reserve numbers exclude approximately 1.2   1.6 Bcf of CO2 gas reserved for the
years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003.

Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows 

Estimates of future cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves, based on current prices and
costs, as of September 30 are shown in the following table. Estimated income taxes are calculated
by applying the appropriate year-end tax rates to the estimated future pretax net cash flows less
depreciation of the tax basis of properties and statutory depletion allowances. Prices used for
determining future cash flows from oil and natural gas for the periods ended September 30, 2006,
2005, 2004 were as follows: 2006   $60.50, $3.49; 2005   $64.18, $11.54; 2004   $44.68, $5.42.

(49) 

Table of Contents   

Panhandle Royalty Company 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

10. Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Reserves (Unaudited) (continued) 

Changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flow are as follows:

11. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) 

The following is a summary of the Company s unaudited quarterly results of operations.

(50) 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9 

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

NONE

ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

(a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

The Company maintains  disclosure controls and procedures,  as such term is defined in Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that are designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed in reports the Company files or submits under the Exchange Act
is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and
forms, and that such information is collected and communicated to management, including the
Company s Co-President/COO and Co-President/CFO (Co-Presidents), as appropriate, to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating its disclosure controls and
procedures, management recognized that no matter how well conceived and operated, disclosure
controls and procedures can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of
the disclosure controls and procedures are met. The Company s disclosure controls and procedures
have been designed to meet, and management believes that they do meet, reasonable assurance
standards. Based on their evaluation as of the end of the fiscal period covered by this report,
the Co-Presidents have concluded that, subject to the limitations noted above, the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that material information relating to
the Company, including its consolidated subsidiary, is made known to them.

(b) Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate  internal
control over financial reporting , as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). The
Company s management, including the Co-Presidents, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
its internal control over financial reporting based on the  Internal Control   Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on the
results of this evaluation, the Company s management concluded that its internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2006.

The Company management s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal controls over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 has been audited by Ernst and Young, LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included in this
report.

(c) Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

There were no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control
over financial reporting made during the fiscal quarter or subsequent to the date the assessment
was completed.

(51) 

Table of Contents   

PART III  

The information called for by Part III of Form 10-K (Item 10   Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrant, Item 11   Executive Compensation, Item 12   Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters, Item 13   Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Item 14   Principal Accountant Fees and Services), is
incorporated by reference from the Company s definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with
the SEC within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year to which this Report relates.

PART IV  

ITEM 15 EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K 

Financial Statement Schedules 

The Company has omitted all other schedules because the conditions requiring their
filing do not exist or because the required information appears in the Company s
Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements.

Exhibits 

(3)

Amended Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
attached to Form 10 filed January 27, 1980, and to Forms 8-K dated June 1, 1982,
December 3, 1982 and to Form 10-QSB dated March 31, 1999). 

By-Laws as amended (incorporated by reference to Form 8-K dated October 31,
1994) 

By-Laws as amended (incorporated by reference to Form 8-K dated February
24, 2006) 

(4)

Instruments defining the rights of security holders (incorporated by reference to
Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws listed above) 

(10)

Amendment to Loan Agreement (incorporated by reference to Form 10-K dated
September 30, 2003) 

(10)

Agreement indemnifying directors and officers (incorporated by reference to
Form 10-K dated September 30, 1989) 

(21)

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

(31.1)

Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

(31.2)

Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

(32.1)

Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

(32.2)

Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

REPORTS ON FORM 8-K 

No Form 8-K s were filed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.

(52) 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

PANHANDLE ROYALTY COMPANY

By: /s/ Michael C. Coffman

By: /s/ Ben D. Hare 

Michael C. Coffman

Ben D. Hare

Co-President;

Co-President; 

Chief Financial Officer

Chief Operating Officer 

Date:   December 12, 2006 

In accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/ E. Chris Kauffman

/s/ Bruce M. Bell 

E. Chris Kauffman, Chairman of Board

Bruce M. Bell, Director

Date December 12, 2006

Date December 12, 2006

/s/ Robert A. Reece

/s/ Robert E. Robotti 

Robert A. Reece, Director

Robert E. Robotti, Director

Date December 12, 2006

Date December 12, 2006

/s/ H. Grant Swartzwelder

H. Grant Swartzwelder, Director

/s/ Robert O. Lorenz

Robert O. Lorenz, Director

Date December 12, 2006

Date December 12, 2006

/s/ Lonnie J. Lowry

Lonnie J. Lowry, Vice President,
Controller and Secretary
(Chief Accounting Officer)

Date December 12, 2006

(53) 

<EX-21>
 2
 d42006exv21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF PANHANDLE ROYALTY COMPANY 
AT SEPTEMBER 30, 2006 

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to 
Panhandle s subsidiaries:

Corporation  

Wood Oil Company 

Wood Oil Company was incorporated in Oklahoma and is included in Panhandle s consolidated financial
statements. Effective October 1, 2001, 100% of Wood Oil Company s outstanding stock was acquired
by Panhandle.

</EX-21>

<EX-31.1>
 3
 d42006exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION  

I, Ben D. Hare, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Panhandle Royalty Company
(the Company); 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The Company s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Company and have: 

a). 
       
      Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
to ensure that material information relating to the Company, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b).  
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c). 
       
      Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d).  
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the Company s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company s fourth
fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting;
and 

5. 
       
     The Company s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Company s
auditors and the audit committee of the Company s board of directors: 

a).  
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the Company s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b). 
       
      Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the Company s internal
control over financial reporting. 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 4
 d42006exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATION  

I, Michael C. Coffman, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Panhandle Royalty Company
(the Company); 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The Company s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Company and have: 

a). 
       
      Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
to ensure that material information relating to the Company, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b).  
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c). 
       
      Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d). 
       
      Disclosed in this report any change in the Company s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company s fourth
fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting;
and 

5. 
       
     The Company s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Company s
auditors and the audit committee of the Company s board of directors: 

a). 
       
      All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the Company s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b). 
       
      Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the Company s internal
control over financial reporting. 

/s/ Michael C. Coffman

Michael C. Coffman

Chief Financial Officer

Date: December 12, 2006

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 5
 d42006exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

Panhandle Royalty Company 
5400 North Grand Blvd. Suite #305 
Oklahoma City, OK 73112

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
REGARDING PERIODIC REPORT CONTAINING  
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

I, Ben D. Hare, Co-President and Chief Operating Officer of Panhandle Royalty Company, (the
 Company ), in compliance with 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, hereby certify in connection with the Company s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the period that ended September 30, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the  Report ) that:

(1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in this Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Ben D. Hare

Ben D. Hare

Co-President   
Chief Operating Officer

December 12, 2006

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 6
 d42006exv32w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

exv32w2 

EXHIBIT 32.2 

Panhandle Royalty Company 
5400 North Grand Blvd. Suite #305 
Oklahoma City, OK 73112

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
REGARDING PERIODIC REPORT CONTAINING  
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

I, Michael C. Coffman, Co-President and Chief Financial Officer of Panhandle Royalty Company, (the
 Company ), in compliance with 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, hereby certify in connection with the Company s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the period that ended September 30, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the  Report ) that:

(1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in this Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Michael C. Coffman

Michael C. Coffman

Co-President   
Chief Financial Officer

December 12, 2006

</EX-32.2>

