<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061207_10-K_edgar_data_25212_0001104659-06-080174_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1689029</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>154500</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1056545</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>39</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-080174.hdr.sgml : 20061207
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061207164701
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-080174
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061207
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061207

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COURIER CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000025212
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BOOK PRINTING [2732]
		IRS NUMBER:				042502514
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-07597
		FILM NUMBER:		061263132

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		15 WELLMAN AVENUE
		CITY:			NORTH CHELMSFORD
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			01863
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9782516000

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 SpbKbsIXX3KiMB+sLZmJTwLveAwvKDbN6lj/uI3t+b87OxEeOyuYImZvKNc4Di6U
 SUdlrDx5nFw649pTpzyLNg==

 0001104659-06-080174.txt : 20061207

10-K
 1
 a06-25099_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED
STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   WASHINGTON,
D.C. 20549   

   Form
10-K   

   (MARK
ONE)   

For the
fiscal year ended September 30, 2006   

   OR   

For the
transition period from                                   to                                     

   Commission
file number 0-7597   

   Courier
Corporation   

A
Massachusetts corporation   

  I.R.S.
Employer Identification No.  04-2502514   

   15
Wellman Avenue, North Chelmsford, Massachusetts 
01863   

  Telephone
No.  978-251-6000   

  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     None   

  Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   Common Stock, $1 par value   

   Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act.   

   Yes                 o             No               x   

   Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Act.   

   Yes                 o             No               x   

   Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.   Yes      x    No     o   

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure
of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       o   

   Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a
non-accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).   

Large accelerated
  filer             o   

Accelerated
  filer              x   

Non-accelerated
  filer              o   

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).   Yes       o    No      x   

   State the aggregate market value of
the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by
reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold as of the last
business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
(March 25, 2006).   

   Common
Stock, $1 par value - $355,459,141   

   Indicate the number of shares
outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common stock as of December
4, 2006.   

   Common
Stock, $1 par value - 12,461,610   

   DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   

   Portions of the registrant s proxy statement dated
December 8, 2006 for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January
17, 2007 are incorporated by reference to Part III of this Form 10-K.   

PART I   

   Item
1.  Business.   

   INTRODUCTION   

  Courier Corporation and its subsidiaries ( Courier  or the  Company )
are among America s leading book manufacturers and specialty publishers.
Courier Corporation, founded in 1824, was incorporated under the laws of Massachusetts
on June 30, 1972.  The Company has two
business segments: book manufacturing and specialty book publishing.  

  The book
manufacturing segment focuses on streamlining and enhancing the process of
bringing books from the point of creation to the point of use.  Based on sales, Courier is the fifth largest
book manufacturer in the United States and largest in the Northeast, offering
services from prepress and production through storage and distribution. Courier s
principal book manufacturing markets are religious, educational and specialty
trade books with products including Bibles, educational texts and consumer
books. On October 17, 2005, the Company acquired Moore-Langen Printing Company,
Inc. ( Moore Langen ), an Indianapolis-based printer specializing in
manufacturing book covers, which is included in this segment.  Revenues from this segment accounted for
approximately 82% of Courier s consolidated revenues in 2006.  

  The specialty publishing segment consists of Dover
Publications, Inc. ( Dover ) and Research   Education Association, Inc. ( REA ),
which was acquired on January 6, 2004. 
On April 28, 2006, the Company acquired Federal Marketing Corporation,
d/b/a Creative Homeowner ( Creative Homeowner ), a New Jersey-based publisher
and distributor of books, home plans and related products for the home and
garden retail book market.  The results
of Creative Homeowner were included in the specialty publishing segment from
the date of acquisition.  Dover publishes
over 9,000 titles in more than 30 specialty categories ranging from literature
to paper dolls, and from music scores to clip art. REA publishes test
preparation and study-guide books for high school, college and graduate
students, and professionals.  The combination
of Dover s, REA s, and Creative Homeowner s publishing, sales and distribution
skills with Courier s book manufacturing, digital content conversion, and
e-commerce skills are providing a powerful end-to-end publishing solution for
Courier.  Revenues in this segment were
approximately 21% of consolidated sales in 2006.  

Additional segment information, including the amounts of
earnings before taxes and total assets, for each of the last three fiscal
years, is contained in Note I in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
on pages F-19 to F-21 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

  On December 17, 2002, the Company sold the assets of its
wholly owned subsidiary, Courier Custom Publishing, Inc., which comprised all
of the remaining activities of the customized education segment.  Courier Custom Publishing provided customized
coursepacks and textbooks.  The
disposition was accounted for as a discontinued operation.  

1     

BUSINESS SEGMENTS   

   BOOK MANUFACTURING SEGMENT   

  Courier s book manufacturing segment produces hard and
softcover books, as well as related services involved in managing the process
of creating and distributing these products for publishers, religious
organizations and other information providers. 
Courier provides book manufacturing and related services from seven
facilities in Westford, Stoughton and North Chelmsford, Massachusetts;
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; North Bergen, New Jersey; and Kendallville and
Terre Haute, Indiana.  

  In October 2005, the Company acquired Moore Langen, an
Indianapolis-based printer specializing in book covers and known for innovative
production techniques. The acquisition, a $15 million cash transaction
completed on October 17, 2005, was accounted for as a purchase and,
accordingly, Moore Langen s financial results were included in the consolidated
financial statements from the date of acquisition.  

  Courier s book manufacturing operations consist of both
electronic and conventional film processing, platemaking and printing and
binding of soft and hard cover books. 
Each of Courier s seven facilities have certain specialties adapted to
the needs of the market niches Courier serves, such as short-run book
manufacturing, printing on lightweight paper, book cover production, and
four-color book manufacturing.  These
services are primarily sold to publishers of educational, religious and
consumer books.  During 2004, the Company
expanded its four-color book manufacturing capabilities with the addition of a
major new four-color press at its Kendallville, Indiana facility. A second
identical press was installed in December 2005, with another four-color press
scheduled for installation in December 2006.  

  Courier s book manufacturing sales force of 23   people is responsible for all of the Company s sales to
over 500 book-manufacturing customers. 
Courier s salespeople operate out of sales offices located in New York,
New York; Chicago, Illinois; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Indianapolis, Indiana;
Hayward, California; North Chelmsford, Massachusetts; and North Bergen and
North Caldwell, New Jersey.  

  Sales to The Gideons International aggregated approximately
23%   of consolidated sales in 2006, 28% in
2005, and 27% in 2004.  Sales to Pearson
plc aggregated approximately 16% of consolidated sales in 2006, 19% in 2005,
and 17% in 2004.  A significant reduction
in order volumes or price levels from either of these customers could have a
material adverse effect on the Company. 
No other customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated
sales.  The Company distributes products
around the world; export sales, as a percentage of consolidated sales, were
approximately 19% in 2006 and 21% in both 2005 and 2004.  Approximately 90% of the export sales were in
the book manufacturing segment in each of these years.  

  All phases of Courier s business are highly competitive.  The printing industry, exclusive of
newspapers, includes approximately 43,000 establishments.  While most of these establishments are
relatively small, several of the Company s competitors are considerably larger
or are affiliated with companies that are considerably larger and have greater
financial resources than Courier.  In
recent years, consolidation of both customers and competitors within the
Company s markets has increased pricing pressures.  The major competitive factors in Courier s
book manufacturing business in addition to price are product quality, speed of
delivery, customer service, availability of appropriate printing capacity and
paper, related services and technology support.  

2     

SPECIALTY PUBLISHING SEGMENT   

  Dover, acquired by the Company in September 2000, is a
publisher of books in over 30 specialty categories, including fine and
commercial arts, children s books, crafts, music scores, graphic design,
mathematics, physics and other areas of science, puzzles, games, social
science, stationery items, and classics of literature for both juvenile and
adult markets, including the Dover Thrift Editions.  In 2002, a new line of scholarly hardcover
books valuable to scientists and mathematicians was launched under the name of
Dover Phoenix Editions.  

  Dover sells its products through most American bookstore
chains, independent booksellers, children s stores, craft stores and gift
shops, as well as a diverse range of distributors around the world.  Dover has also sold its books directly to
consumers for over 50 years through its specialty catalogs and, since 2001,
over the Internet at www.doverpublications.com. 
Dover mails its proprietary catalogs to over 400,000 consumers.  In 2002, Dover launched www.DoverDirect.com,
which is a business-to-business site for its retailers and distributors .   

  REA, acquired by the Company in January 2004, publishes more
than 900 test preparation and study-guide titles.  Product lines include Problem Solvers ,
Essentials , Super Reviews  and Test Preparation books.  REA sells its products around the world
through major bookseller chains, college bookstores, and teachers  supply
stores, as well as directly to teachers and other consumers through catalogs and
over the Internet at www.REA.com.  

  In April 2006, the Company acquired Creative Homeowner, a New
Jersey-based publisher and distributor of books, home plans, and related
products for the $340-million home and garden retail book market.  The Company purchased 100% of the stock of
Creative Homeowner in a $37 million cash transaction.  The acquisition was accounted for as a
purchase and accordingly, Creative Homeowner s financial results were included
in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.  Creative Homeowner s 120 titles include books
on home decoration, design and improvement, gardening and landscaping, home
arts, and hunting and fishing.  Its
products are sold primarily through home and garden centers, as well as bookstores
and direct to consumers over the Internet at www.creativehomeowner.com.  Creative Homeowner also manages the
distribution of its own titles and books from third-party publishers to
selected home centers.  From its line of
home plan books, Creative Homeowner offers over 5,000 home plans from which
consumers can order blueprints directly over the Internet at
www.ultimatehomeplans.com.  

  The U.S. publishing market is comprised of over 80,000
publishers.  Many of these publishers are
very small, but a few are much larger than Dover, REA, or Creative Homeowner,
or are part of organizations that are much larger.  In addition, newer sources of competition
have emerged with large retailers launching or expanding publishing operations
and new web-based publishing businesses starting up, which compete in the
specialty book publishing market, including publishing of electronic
books.  Dover distinguishes its products
by offering an extremely wide variety of high quality books at modest
prices.  REA offers high editorial quality
study guides and test preparation books and software products in almost every
academic area including many specialized areas such as teacher certification,
adult education, and professional licensing. 
Creative Homeowner provides books on home improvement and landscaping
that include high-quality photographs, illustrations and written content, as
well as full-service book distribution at competitive prices.  

3     

MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES   

  Courier purchases its principal raw materials, primarily
paper, but also plate materials, ink, adhesives, cover stock, casebinding
materials and cartons, from numerous suppliers, and is not dependent upon any
one source for its requirements.  Many of
Courier s book manufacturing customers purchase their own paper and furnish it
at no charge to Courier for book production. 
Dover and REA purchase a significant portion of their books from Courier s
book manufacturing operations.  Creative
Homeowner purchases most of its books under a contractual agreement, which
expires in December 2007.  Paper prices
increased slightly in each of the years 2006, 2005 and 2004.  

   ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS   

  The Company s operations are subject to federal, state and
local environmental laws and regulations relating to, among other things: air
emissions; waste generation, handling, management and disposal; wastewater
treatment and discharge; and remediation of soil and groundwater
contamination.  The Company periodically
makes capital expenditures so that its operations comply, in all material
respects, with applicable environmental laws and regulations.  No significant expenditures for this purpose
are anticipated in 2007.  The Company
does not believe that its compliance with applicable environmental laws and
regulations will have a material impact on the Company s earnings or
competitive position.  

   EMPLOYEES   

  The Company employed 1,724 persons at September 30, 2006
compared to 1,479 a year ago.  

   OTHER   

  Courier s overall business is not significantly seasonal in
nature, although demand is normally highest in the Company s fourth
quarter.  Educational publishers in the
book manufacturing segment and Dover s business all contribute to this higher
fourth quarter demand. There is no portion of Courier s business subject to
cancellation of government contracts or renegotiation of profits.  

  Courier holds no material patents, licenses, franchises or
concessions that are important to its operations, but does have trademarks,
service marks, and Universal Resource Locators (URL s) on the World Wide Web in
connection with each of its business segments. 
Substantially all of Dover s, REA s, and Creative Homeowner s
publications are protected by copyright, either in its own name, in the name of
the author of the work, or in the name of a predecessor publisher from whom rights
were acquired.  

  The Company makes available free of charge (as soon as
reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished to the SEC) copies of
its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as all other reports required to be
filed by Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, via the
Internet at www.courier.com or upon written request to Peter M. Folger, Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Courier Corporation, 15 Wellman
Avenue, North Chelmsford, MA 01863.  

4     

Item
1A.  Risk Factors.   

  The Company s consolidated results of operations, financial
condition and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks.  Our business is influenced by many factors
that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect
actual results and are often beyond our control.  These risks include, but are not limited to,
the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.  You should
carefully consider all of these factors. 
For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially
from those indicated in any forward-looking statement contained in this report,
see  Forward-Looking Information  in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations .  

   Highly
competitive markets for our products and industry consolidation may create
increased pricing pressures.   

  The printing industry is extremely competitive.  In the book manufacturing segment,
consolidation over the past few years of both customers and competitors within
the markets the Company competes has caused downward pricing pressures.  In addition, excess capacity and competition
from printing companies in lower cost countries may increase competitive
pricing pressures.  Furthermore, some of
our competitors have greater sales, assets and financial resources than us and
others, particularly those in foreign countries, may derive significant
advantages from local governmental regulation, including tax holidays and other
subsidies.  All or any of these
competitive pressures could affect prices or customers  demand for our
products, impacting our profit margins and/or resulting in a loss of customers
and market share.  

   We
have a high degree of customer concentration.   

  We derived approximately
40% of our 2006 revenues, 47% of our 2005 revenues, and 44% of our 2004
revenues from two major customers.  A
significant reduction in order volumes or price levels from either of them
could have a material adverse effect on the Company.  

   We
need to keep pace with rapid industry and technological change.   

  The printing industry is in a period of rapid technological
evolution.  Our future financial
performance will depend, in part, upon the ability to anticipate and adapt to
rapid industry and technological changes occurring in the industry and upon the
ability to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet evolving industry
standards.  We cannot assure investors
that we will be able to adapt to such technological changes or offer these
services on a timely basis or establish or maintain a competitive
position.  We are unable to predict which
of the many possible future product and service offerings will be important to
establish and maintain competitive position or what expenditures will be
required to develop and provide these products and services.  We cannot assure investors that one or more
of these factors will not vary unpredictably, which could have a material
adverse effect on us. In addition, we cannot assure investors, even if these
factors turn out as we anticipate, that we will be able to implement our
strategy or that the strategy will be successful in this rapidly evolving
market.  

5     

Fluctuations
in the cost and availability of paper and other raw materials may cause
disruption and impact margins.   

  Purchases of paper and other raw materials represent a large
portion of our costs.  Historically, we
have generally been able to pass on these cost increases to customers through
higher prices.  However, if we are unable
to continue to pass on these increases, our margins and profits could be
adversely affected.  In addition,
increases in the costs of materials may adversely impact our book manufacturing
customers  demand for products.  

  Availability of paper is important to both the book
manufacturing and specialty publishing segments of the Company.  Although we generally have not experienced
difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies of paper, unexpected changes in the
paper markets could result in a shortage of supply.  If this were to occur in the future, it could
cause disruption to the business or increase paper costs, adversely impacting
either or both net sales or profits.  

  Fluctuations in the costs and availability of raw materials
could adversely affect operating costs or customer demand and thereby
negatively impact our operating results, financial condition or cash flows.  

   Energy
costs and availability may negatively impact our financial results.   

  Energy costs are incurred directly to run production
equipment and facilities and indirectly through expenses such as freight and
raw materials such as ink.  In a
competitive market environment, increases to these direct and indirect energy
related costs might not be able to be passed through to customers through price
increases or mitigated through other means. 
In such instances, increased energy costs could adversely impact
operating costs or customer demand.  In
addition, interruption in the availability of energy could disrupt operations,
adversely impacting operating results.  

   We
may not be able to continue to improve our operating efficiencies.   

  Because the markets in which we operate are highly
competitive, we must continue to improve our operating efficiency in order to
maintain or improve our profitability. 
Although we have been able to expand our capacity, improve our
productivity and reduce costs in the past, there is no assurance that we will
continue to be able to do so in the future. 
In addition, reducing operating costs in the future may require significant
initial costs to reduce headcount, close or consolidate operations, or upgrade
equipment and technology.  

   Protection of intellectual property rights
critical to publishing segment.   

  Certain of our
publications are protected by copyright, primarily held in the Company s
name.  Such copyrights protect the
Company s exclusive right to publish the work in the United States and in many
other countries for specified periods. 
The ability of the Company to continue to achieve anticipated results
depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property against
infringement.  The Company s operating
results may be adversely affected by inadequate legal and technological
protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some
jurisdictions and markets.  

6     

Declines
in general economic conditions may adversely impact our business.   

  Economic conditions have the potential to impact our
financial results significantly.  Within
the book manufacturing and specialty publishing segments, a change in economic
conditions can impact many areas of spending, including government, business
and individual spending.  Examples of the
changes in spending that could affect our financial results include:  

           Fluctuations in federal or state
government spending on education could lead to a corresponding decrease or
increase in the demand for educational materials, which are produced in our
book manufacturing segment and comprise a portion of our publishing products.  

           Consumer demand for books can be impacted
by reductions in disposable income when costs such as electricity and gasoline
reduce discretionary spending.  

           Changes in the housing market may impact
the sale of Creative Homeowner s products.  

  These
changes may adversely impact our business.  

   The
substitution of electronic delivery for printed materials may adversely affect
our business.   

  Electronic delivery of documents and data, including the
online distribution and hosting of media content, offers alternatives to
traditional delivery of printed documents. 
Consumer acceptance of electronic delivery is uncertain, as is the
extent to which consumers are replacing print materials with online hosted
media content.  To the extent that our
customers accept these electronic alternatives, demand for our printed products
may be adversely affected.  

   Changes
in postal rates and postal regulations may adversely impact our business.   

  Postal costs are a significant component of our direct
marketing cost structure and postal rate changes can influence the number of
catalogs that we may mail.  In addition,
increased postal rates can impact the cost of delivering our products to
customers.  Either of these results could
adversely affect consumer demand and results of operations.  

   Our
facilities are subject to environmental laws and regulations, which may subject
us to liability or increase costs.   

  We use various materials in our operations which contain
substances considered hazardous or toxic under environmental laws.  In addition, our operations are subject to
federal, state, and local environmental laws relating to, among other things,
air emissions, waste generation, handling, management and disposal, waste water
treatment and discharge and remediation of soil and groundwater
contamination.  Permits are required for
the operation of certain of our businesses and these permits are subject to
renewal, modification and in some circumstances, revocation.  Under certain environmental laws, including
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as
amended ( CERCLA,  commonly referred to as  Superfund ), and similar state laws
and regulations, we may be liable for costs and damages relating to soil and
groundwater contamination at off-site disposal locations or at our own
facilities.  Future changes to
environmental laws and regulations may give rise to additional costs or
liabilities that could have a material adverse impact on our financial position
and results of operations.  

7     

We
may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses.   

  Over the last three years, we have completed three acquisitions,
including Moore Langen and Creative Homeowner in fiscal year 2006, and may
continue to make acquisitions in the future. 
We believe that these acquisitions provide strategic growth
opportunities for the Company.  Achieving
the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions will depend in part upon our
ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective
manner.  The challenges involved in
successfully integrating acquisitions include:  

           we may find that the acquired company or
assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the
company or assets, or that economic conditions have changed, all of which may
result in a future impairment charge;  

           we may have difficulty integrating the
operations and personnel of the acquired business and may have difficulty
retaining the customers and/or the key personnel of the acquired business;  

           we may have difficulty incorporating and
integrating acquired technologies into our business;  

           our ongoing business and management s
attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and
the complexity of managing diverse locations;  

           we may have difficulty maintaining uniform
standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations;  

           an acquisition may result in litigation
from terminated employees of the acquired business or third parties; and  

           we may experience significant problems or
liabilities associated with technology and legal contingencies of the acquired
business.  

  These factors could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and financial condition or cash flows,
particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a
short period of time.  From time to time,
we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately
consummated.  Such negotiations could
result in significant diversion of management time from our business as well as
significant out-of-pocket costs.  

  The consideration that we pay in connection with an
acquisition could affect our financial results. 
If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which
the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial
portion of our available cash to consummate such acquisitions.  To the extent we issue shares of stock or
other rights to purchase stock, including options or other rights, our existing
stockholders may experience dilution in their share ownership in our company
and their earnings per share may decrease. 
In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large
one-time write-offs and restructuring charges. 
They may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are
subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment
charges.  Any of these factors may materially
and adversely affect our business and operations.  

8     

Our
ability to hire and train key executives and other qualified employees is
crucial.   

  Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to
retain our executive officers and key management personnel.  Our business strategy also depends on our
ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain employees who have relevant
experience in the printing and publishing industries.  There can be no assurance that we can
continue to attract and retain the necessary talented employees, including
executive officers and other key members of management.  If that were to occur, it could adversely
affect our business.  

   Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public
disclosure and accounting matters may result in additional expenses.   

  Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate
governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission
and The NASDAQ Stock Market, as well as new accounting pronouncements, are
creating uncertainty and additional complexities for companies.  To maintain high standards of corporate
governance and public disclosure, we continue to invest resources to comply
with evolving standards.  This investment
may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of
management time and attention from revenue generating and cost management
activities.  

   Item
1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments.   

  None.  

9     

Item
2.  Properties.   

   REAL PROPERTIES   

  The following schedule lists the facilities owned or leased
by Courier at September 30, 2006. Courier considers its plants and other
facilities to be well maintained and suitable for the purposes intended.  

(1)                                  Also houses warehousing and end-user
fulfillment operations supporting the book manufacturing segment.  

  (2)                                  In May 2004, the Company completed
the sale of approximately 200,000 square feet of unoccupied and underutilized
portions of its multi-building manufacturing complex in Westford, MA for $1.7
million.  

   EQUIPMENT   

  The Company s products are
manufactured on equipment that in most cases is owned by the Company, although
it leases computers, image setters and other electronic prepress equipment,
which are subject to more rapid obsolescence. 
In addition, one printing press is leased whereby the lessor holds title
and the Company has an option to purchase the equipment upon expiration of the
lease in 2008 at a price of $161,658. 
Capital expenditures amounted to approximately $29.4 million in 2006,
$19.7 million in 2005, and $13.4 million in 2004. Capital expenditures in 2006
included approximately $21 million for new four-color presses and related
equipment and an expansion of the Kendallville, Indiana facility.  A four-color press was installed in December
2005 and deposits were made on another four-color press to be installed in
December 2006.  This press is identical
to the presses installed in April 2004 and December 2005. Capital expenditures
in 2006 also included investments to increase productivity, lower costs, and
improve employee safety.  Fiscal 2007
capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $25 to $28 million. This
amount includes completing the current four-color expansion program, as well as
expanding capacity in the religious book manufacturing operation.  Courier considers its equipment to be in good
operating condition and adequate for its present needs.  

10     

ENCUMBRANCES AND RENTAL
OBLIGATIONS   

  For a description of encumbrances on
certain properties and equipment, see Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements on page F-11 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information
concerning leased properties and equipment is disclosed in Note E of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, which appears on page F-12 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.  

   Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.   

  In the ordinary course of business,
the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims.  The Company believes that the ultimate
outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on its
financial statements.  

   Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders.   

  There were no matters submitted to a
vote of security holders during the quarter ended September 30, 2006.  

11     

PART II   

   Item 5.  Market for the Registrant s Common Equity,
Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.   

  The information required by this Item
is contained in the section captioned  Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 
which appears on page F-23 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

   Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.   

  The information required by this Item
is contained in the section captioned  Five-Year Financial Summary  appearing
on page F-22 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

   Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   

  The information required by this Item
is contained in the section captioned  Management s Discussion and Analysis  on
pages F-24 through F-33 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

   Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk.   

  The
Company does not hold any derivative financial instruments, derivative
commodity instruments or other financial instruments except as noted in Notes A
and L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear on pages F-7
through F-9 and F-21 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The Company engages neither in speculative
nor derivative trading activities. The Company is exposed to market risk for
changes in interest rates on invested funds as well as borrowed funds.  The Company s revolving bank credit facility
bears interest at a floating rate, with further information contained in Note D
on page F-11 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

   Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   

  The information required by this Item
is contained on pages F-1 through F-21 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

   Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants
on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.   

  None.  

   Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures   

   (a)          Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

  As of the end of the period covered
by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we carried out an evaluation under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e). Disclosure controls are
procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed in our reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
Act ) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Disclosure controls are
also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated
to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.  

12     

(b)          Changes in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting   

  There were no changes in the Company s
internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of fiscal
year 2006 that have materially affected, or that are reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.  As set forth below, we
excluded our fiscal year 2006 acquisitions from our assessment of internal
control over financial reporting for the quarter and year ended September 30,
2006.  We are in the process of
integrating the internal control procedures of these acquired companies into
our internal control structure.  

   (c)                                      Management s Responsibility for
Financial Statements   

  Management of the Company is
responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the Company s
consolidated financial statements and other financial information contained in
its Annual Report to Stockholders.  Those
consolidated financial statements were prepared in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.  In preparing those consolidated financial
statements, the Company s management was required to make certain estimates and
judgments, which are based upon currently available information and management s
view of current conditions and circumstances.  

  The Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors, which consists solely of independent directors, oversees the Company s
process of reporting financial information and the audit of its consolidated
financial statements.  The Audit
Committee stays informed of the financial condition of the Company and
regularly reviews management s financial policies and procedures, the
independence of the independent auditors, the Company s internal control and
the objectivity of its financial reporting. The independent registered public
accounting firm has free access to the Audit Committee and to meet with the
Audit Committee periodically, both with and without management present.  

  The Company has retained Deloitte
  Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, to audit
its consolidated financial statements found in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended September 30, 2006. 
The Company has made available to Deloitte   Touche LLP all of its
financial records and related data in connection with their audit of the
consolidated financial statements.  

  The Company has filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission the required certifications related to its
consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended September 30,
2006.  These certifications are attached
as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30,
2006.  

   (d)                                      Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting.   

  Management has responsibility for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting.  Internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Management has assessed the effectiveness of
the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2006. As discussed in Item 1 of this Annual Report under the caption  Business 
and in Note H to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual
Report, the Company acquired Moore Langen and Creative Homeowner during fiscal
year 2006. The total assets and revenues of these acquisitions were 12% and 9%,
respectively, as of and for the year ended September 30, 2006. As permitted by
the rules and regulations of the SEC, we excluded these two acquired companies
from the assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2006.  

  In making its assessment of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting, the Company s management
has utilized the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations ( COSO ) of the Treadway Commission in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework. Management concluded that based on its
assessment, the Company s internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of September 30, 2006. Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm that audited our financial statements
included in this Annual Report, has issued an attestation report on
management s assessment of internal control over financial reporting.  Such attestation, which expresses unqualified
opinions on management s assessment and on the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, which appears below
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

13     

(e)          Limitations on Design and Effectiveness of Controls.   

   The
Company s management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, believes that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal
control over financial reporting are effective at the reasonable assurance
level. However, the Company s management does not expect that our disclosure
controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will
prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived
and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
objective of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control
system must take into consideration resource constraints, and the benefits of
controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent
limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide
absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any,
within the Company have been detected in a timely manner. These inherent
limitations include the fact that controls can be circumvented by individual
acts, by collusion of two or more people or by management override of the
controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain
assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no
assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all
potential future conditions. Finally, over time, controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with policies or
procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a
cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur
and not be detected.   

   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM     

  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Courier
Corporation 
 North Chelmsford, Massachusetts   

  We have audited management s assessment, included in
the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,
that Courier Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on
criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As described in Management s Report
on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management excluded from their
assessment the internal control over financial reporting at Moore-Langen
Printing Company, Inc. ( Moore Langen ) and Federal Marketing Corp. d/b/a
Creative Homeowner ( Creative Homeowner ), which were acquired on
October 17, 2005 and April 28, 2006, respectively, and whose
financial statements reflect total assets (excluding intangibles) and revenues constituting
12 and 9 percent, respectively, of the related consolidated financial statement
amounts as of and for the year ended September 30, 2006. Accordingly, our
audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at Moore
Langen and Creative Homeowner. The Company s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.  

  We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audit
included obtaining an understanding of internal control  

14     

over financial reporting, evaluating management s
assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinions.  

  A company s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar
functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.  

  Because of the inherent limitations of internal
control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error
or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  Also,
projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over
financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  In our opinion, management s assessment that the
Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the
criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Also in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on the criteria established
in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  

  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended September 30,
2006 of the Company and our report dated December 7, 2006 expressed an
unqualified opinion on those financial statements and included an explanatory
paragraph concerning the adoption of SFAS 123R  Share-Based Payments  by
application of the modified retrospective transition method on those financial
statements and financial statement schedule.  

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP  

Boston, Massachusetts   
December 7, 2006 

15     

Item 9B. 
Other Information   

  The following table sets forth information concerning
the granting on September 25, 2006 of restricted stock awards and stock options
under the Courier Corporation 1993 Stock Incentive Plan to each of the
Executive Officers.  

16  

PART III   

   Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant.   

  Courier s executive officers,
together with their ages and all positions and offices with the Company
presently held by each person named, are as follows:  

James F. Conway III 

54  

Chairman, President and Chief  

Executive Officer  

George Q. Nichols  

77  

Corporate Senior Vice President  

and Chairman of National  

Publishing Company  

Robert P. Story, Jr.  

55  

Executive Vice President and  

Chief Operating Officer  

Peter M. Folger  

53  

Senior Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

Peter D. Tobin  

51  

Corporate Vice President and   

Executive Vice President of  

Courier Companies and National   

Publishing Company  

Eric J. Zimmerman  

41  

Vice President, Publishing  

The terms of office of all of the
above executive officers continue until the first meeting of the Board of
Directors following the next annual meeting of stockholders and the election or
appointment and qualification of their successors, unless any officer sooner
dies, resigns, is removed or becomes disqualified.  

  Mr. Conway III was elected Chairman
of the Board in September 1994 after serving as acting Chairman since December
1992.  He has been Chief Executive Officer
since December 1992 and President since July 1988.  

  Mr. Nichols became an executive
officer of Courier in June 1989.  He was
elected a Director of the Company in March 1995 and became Senior Vice
President of the Company in November 1996. 
He became Chairman of National Publishing Company in December 1999.  He had previously been President of National
Publishing Company since 1976.  

  Mr. Story became Executive Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer in November 2006. He had previously been
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 1989.  He joined Courier in November 1986 as Vice
President and Treasurer.  He was elected
a Director of the Company in February 1995.  

  Mr. Folger became Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer in November 2006.  He had previously been Controller since 1982
and Vice President since November 1992.  

  Mr. Tobin became Vice President of
Courier Corporation and Executive Vice President of  

17     

Courier Companies in October 2000, and Executive Vice
President of National Publishing Company in March 2002.  He joined Courier Companies as National Sales
Manager in 1994 and became Vice President of Sales and Marketing in 1997.  

  Mr. Zimmerman became Vice President,
Publishing and an executive officer of Courier Corporation in October
2004.  He joined Courier in December 1994
as General Manager of its former Copyright Management Services operation and
became Vice President of e-Commerce for Courier in September 2000.  

  The Company has adopted a code of
ethics entitled  Courier Corporation Business Conduct Guidelines,  which is
applicable to all of the Company s directors, officers, and employees.  These Business Conduct Guidelines are
available on the Company s Internet website, located at www.courier.com.  

  All other information called for by
Item 10 is contained in the definitive Proxy Statement, under the captions  Item
1: Election of Directors  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance,  to be delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on Wednesday, January 17,
2007.  Such information is incorporated
herein by reference.  

   Item 11.  Executive Compensation.   

  Information called for by Item 11 is
contained in the definitive Proxy Statement, under the caption  Executive
Compensation,  to be delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on Wednesday, January 17,
2007.  Such information is incorporated
herein by reference.  

   Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.   

   The
following table provides information as of September 30, 2006 regarding
shares of common stock of the Company that may be issued under its existing
compensation plans, including the Courier Corporation Amended and Restated
1993 Stock Incentive Plan (the  1993 Plan ), the Courier Corporation
2005 Stock Equity Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the  2005 Plan ), and
the Courier Corporation 1989 Deferred Income Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
Directors, which was replaced by the 2005 Plan.   

Plan category   

Number of securities 
  to be issued upon 
  exercise of 
  outstanding options, 
  warrants and rights (1)   

Weighted-average 
  exercise price of 
  outstanding options, 
  warrants and rights   

Number of securities 
  remaining available for 
  future issuance under 
  equity compensation 
  plans (excluding 
  securities reflected 
  in column (a))(2)(3)   

(a)   

(b)   

(c)   

Equity compensation
  plans approved by security holders  

587,018  

$  

22.98  

509,285  

Equity
  compensation plans not approved by security holders  

Total  

587,018  

$  

22.98  

509,285  

(1)    Does not include any restricted stock as
such shares are already reflected in the Company s outstanding shares.  

  (2)    101,176 shares of these 509,285 shares were
reserved for future issuance under the Company s Employee Stock Purchase Plan.  

  (3)    Includes
up to 272,425 securities that may be issued in the form of restricted stock.  

  All other information called for by
Item 12 is contained in the definitive Proxy Statement, under the captions  Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Executive
Compensation,  to be delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on Wednesday, January 17,
2007.  Such information is incorporated
herein by reference.  

   Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions.   

  Information called for by Item 13 is
contained in the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to stockholders in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on
Wednesday, January 17, 2007.  Such
information is incorporated herein by reference.  

   Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

  Information called for by Item 14 is
contained in the definitive Proxy Statement, under the caption  Item 2:
Ratification and Approval of Selection of Independent Auditors,  to be
delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
scheduled to be held on Wednesday, January 17, 2007.  Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.  

18     

PART IV   

   Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.   

   (a)         Documents filed as part of this report   

1.       Financial
  statements   

Report of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

Consolidated
  Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended
  September 30, 2006   

Consolidated
  Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2006 and September 24, 2005   

Consolidated
  Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended
  September 30, 2006   

Consolidated
  Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity for each of the three years in
  the period ended September 30, 2006   

Notes to
  Consolidated Financial Statements   

2.       Financial statement schedule    

Schedule II
  - Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   

3.       Exhibits    

Exhibit No. 

Description of Exhibit   

3A-1  

Articles of Organization of Courier Corporation, as
  of June 29, 1972 (filed as Exhibit 3A-1 to the Company s Annual Report on
  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 26, 1981, and incorporated
  herein by reference).  

3A-2  

Articles of Amendment of Courier Corporation
  (changing stockholder vote required for merger or consolidation), as of
  January 20, 1977 (filed as Exhibit 3A-2 to the Company s Annual Report on
  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 26, 1981, and incorporated
  herein by reference).  

3A-3  

Articles of Amendment of Courier Corporation
  (providing for staggered election of directors), as of January 20, 1977 (filed
  as Exhibit 3A-3 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
  year ended September 26, 1981, and incorporated herein by reference).  

3A-4  

Articles of Amendment of Courier Corporation
  (authorizing class of Preferred Stock), as of February 15, 1978 (filed as
  Exhibit 3A-4 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
  ended September 26, 1981, and incorporated herein by reference).  

3A-5  

Articles of Amendment of Courier Corporation
  (increasing number of shares of authorized Common Stock), as of January 16,
  1986 (described in item #2 of the  

19     

Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
  Stockholders held on January 16, 1986, and incorporated herein by reference).  

3A-6 

Articles of Amendment of Courier Corporation
  (providing for fair pricing procedures for stock to be sold in certain
  business combinations), as of January 16, 1986 (filed as Exhibit A to the Company s
  Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on January 16,
  1986, and incorporated herein by reference).  

3A-7  

Articles of Amendment of Courier Corporation
  (limiting personal liability of directors to the Corporation or to any of its
  stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty), as of
  January 28, 1988 (filed as Exhibit 3A-7 to the Company s Annual Report on
  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 1988, and incorporated
  herein by reference).  

3A-8  

Articles of Amendment of Courier Corporation
  (establishing Series A Preferred Stock), as of November 8, 1988 (filed as
  Exhibit 3A-8 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
  ended September 24, 1988, and incorporated herein by reference).  

3A-9  

Articles of Amendment of Courier Corporation
  (increasing number of shares of authorized Common Stock), as of January 17,
  2002 (filed as Exhibit 3 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
  the period ended March 30, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference).  

3B  

By-Laws of Courier Corporation, amended and restated
  as of March 24, 2005 (filed as Exhibit 3 to the Company s Current Report on
  Form 8-K, dated March 24, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10A-1+  

Courier Corporation Stock Grant Plan (filed as
  Exhibit C to the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
  Stockholders held on January 20, 1977, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10A-2+  

Amendment, effective January 19, 1989, to the
  Courier Corporation Stock Grant Plan (described in Item 4 of the Company s
  Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held January 19, 1989,
  and incorporated herein by reference).  

10B+  

Letter Agreement, dated February 8, 1990, of Courier
  Corporation relating to supplemental retirement benefit and consulting
  agreement with James F. Conway, Jr. (filed as Exhibit 10B to the Company s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 1990, and
  incorporated herein by reference).  

10C-1+  

Courier Corporation 1989 Deferred Income Stock
  Option Plan for Non-employee Directors, effective September 28, 1989 (filed
  as Exhibit A to the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
  Stockholders held January 18, 1990, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10C-2+  

Amendment, effective November 4, 1993, to the 1989
  Deferred Income Stock Option Plan for Non-employee Directors (filed as
  Exhibit 10C-2 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
  ended September 25, 1993, and incorporated herein by reference).  

20     

10C-3+ 

Amendment, effective September 24, 1998, to the 1989
  Deferred Income Stock Option Plan for Non-employee Directors (filed as
  Exhibit 10C-3 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
  ended September 26, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10C-4+  

Amendment, effective January 21, 1999, to the 1989
  Deferred Income Stock Option Plan for Non-employee Directors (described in Item
  3 of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
  held January 21, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10D-1+  

Courier Corporation 1983 Stock Option Plan (filed as
  Exhibit A to the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
  Stockholders held on January 20, 1983, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10D-2+  

Amendment, effective January 17, 1985, to the
  Courier Corporation 1983 Stock Option Plan (described in Item 2 of the
  Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on
  January 17, 1985, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10D-3+  

Amendment, effective January 19, 1989, to the
  Courier Corporation 1983 Stock Option Plan (described in Item 3 of the
  Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held January
  19, 1989, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10E-1+  

The Courier Executive Compensation Program, as
  amended and restated on December 5, 2005 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the
  Company s Current Report on Form 8-K on December 7, 2005, and incorporated
  herein by reference).  

10E-2+  

The Management Incentive Compensation Program,
  effective October 4, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 10E-3 to the Company s Annual
  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 1993, and
  incorporated herein by reference).  

10F+  

Courier Corporation Senior Executive Severance
  Program, as amended and restated on December 5, 2005 (filed as Exhibit 10.3
  to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K on December 7, 2005, and
  incorporated herein by reference).  

10G-1  

Rights Agreement between Courier Corporation and
  State Street Bank and Trust Company dated March 18, 1999 (filed as Exhibit
  4.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 18, 1999, and
  incorporated herein by reference).  

10G-2  

Amendment, dated November 8, 2001, to Rights
  Agreement between Courier Corporation and EquiServe Trust Company NA dated
  March 18, 1999 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Quarterly Report on
  Form 10-Q for the period ended March 26, 2005, and incorporated herein by
  reference).  

10H+  

Courier Corporation 1999 Employee Stock Purchase
  Plan (filed as Exhibit A to the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual
  Meeting of Stockholders held on January 21, 1999, and incorporated herein by
  reference).  

10I-1+  

Agreement, as of March 3, 1993, of Courier
  Corporation relating to employment contract and supplemental retirement
  benefit with George Q. Nichols (filed as Exhibit  

21     

10J to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
  the fiscal year ended September 25, 1993, and incorporated herein by
  reference).  

10I-2+ 

Amendment, as of April 16, 1997, to supplemental
  retirement benefit agreement with George Q. Nichols (filed as Exhibit 10J-2
  to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
  September 27, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10I-3+  

Amendment, as of November 9, 2000, to supplemental
  retirement benefit agreement with George Q. Nichols (filed as Exhibit 10I-3
  to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
  September 29, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10J-1  

Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement,
  dated as of March 31, 2003, between Courier Corporation, Fleet National Bank,
  KeyBank National Association, Citizens Bank of Massachusetts and Sovereign
  Bank, providing for a $60 million revolving credit facility (filed as Exhibit
  10 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June
  28, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10J-2  

Amendment, dated March 31, 2004, to Amended and
  Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2003, between
  Courier Corporation, Fleet National Bank, KeyBank National Association,
  Citizens Bank of Massachusetts and Sovereign Bank, providing for a $60
  million revolving credit facility (filed as Exhibit 10 to the Company s
  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 27, 2004, and
  incorporated herein by reference).  

10J-3  

Amendment, dated April 29, 2005, to Amended and
  Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2003, between
  Courier Corporation, KeyBank National Association, Citizens Bank of
  Massachusetts and Sovereign Bank, providing for a $45 million revolving
  credit facility (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Quarterly Report on
  Form 10-Q for the period ended March 26, 2005, and incorporated herein by
  reference).  

10J-4  

Amendment, dated May 11, 2006, to Amended and
  Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2003, between
  Courier Corporation, KeyBank National Association, Citizens Bank of
  Massachusetts and Sovereign Bank, providing for a $60 million revolving credit
  facility (filed as Exhibit 10 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K on
  May 17, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10J-5  

Amendment, dated November 9, 2006, to Amended and
  Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2003, between
  Courier Corporation, KeyBank National Association, Citizens Bank of
  Massachusetts, Sovereign Bank, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Wells Fargo
  Bank, N.A. providing for a $100 million revolving credit facility (filed as
  Exhibit 10 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K on November 15, 2006,
  and incorporated herein by reference).  

10K-1+  

Courier Corporation Amended and Restated 1993 Stock
  Incentive Plan (filed January 19, 2005 as Exhibit 10.5 to the Company s
  Registration Statement No. 333-122136 and incorporated herein by reference).  

10K-2+  

Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for the
  Courier Corporation 1993 Stock  

22     

23     

herein by reference).  

10K-13+ 

Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for the Courier
  Corporation 1993 Stock Incentive Plan for E. J. Zimmerman dated September 23,
  2004 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
  the fiscal year ended September 25, 2004, and incorporated herein by
  reference).  

10K-14+  

Stock Grant Agreement for the Courier Corporation
  1993 Stock Incentive Plan for E. J. Zimmerman dated September 23, 2004 (filed
  as Exhibit 10.13 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
  year ended September 25, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10K-15+  

Incentive Stock Option Agreement for the Courier
  Corporation 1993 Stock Incentive Plan for E. J. Zimmerman dated September 23,
  2004 (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
  the fiscal year ended September 25, 2004, and incorporated herein by
  reference).  

10L-1+  

Courier Corporation 2005 Stock Equity Plan for
  Non-Employee Directors (filed January 19, 2005 as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s
  Registration Statement No. 333-122137 and incorporated herein by reference).  

10L-2+  

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for the
  Courier Corporation 2005 Stock Equity Plan for Non-employee Directors (filed
  as Exhibit 10.15 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
  year ended September 25, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10L-3+  

Form of Stock Unit Agreement for the Courier
  Corporation 2005 Stock Equity Plan for Non-employee Directors (filed as
  Exhibit 10.16 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
  ended September 25, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10M  

Stock Purchase Agreement by and among Courier
  Corporation and the stockholders of Book-mart Press, Inc., dated as of July
  21, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K
  dated July 21, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10N-1+  

Courier Corporation Deferred Compensation Program
  dated November 6, 1997 including Messrs. Conway III, Nichols, and Story
  (filed as Exhibit 10 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
  period ended December 27, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10N-2+  

Amendment to Courier Corporation Deferred
  Compensation Program, effective January 1, 2005 (filed as
  Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K on
  December 7, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10O  

Master Lease Finance Agreement, dated as of
  September 23, 1998 between Courier Corporation and General Electric Capital
  Corporation (filed as Exhibit 10R to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for the fiscal year ended September 26, 1998, and incorporated herein by
  reference).  

10P  

Stock Purchase Agreement by and among Courier
  Corporation, Mrs. Blanche Cirker, individually, the Estate of Hayward Francis
  Cirker, by Blanche Cirker, executrix, and each of the stockholders of Dover
  Publications, Inc., Dover Book Store Inc. and Transfolio Express, Inc. dated
  as of August 14, 2000 (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s Current Report
  on Form 8-K dated September 22, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference).  

24     

10Q 

Master Lease Finance Agreement, dated as of
  September 25, 2000 between Courier Corporation and Eastern Bank (filed as
  Exhibit 10T to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
  ended September 30, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10R+  

Amendment, effective March 1, 2005, to the Courier
  Corporation 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24,
  2005, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10S  

Stock Purchase Agreement, dated April 27, 2006, by
  and among Courier Corporation, Federal Marketing Corporation, d/b/a Creative
  Homeowner ( Creative Homeowner ), and the stockholders of Creative Homeowner
  (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K on May 3,
  2006, and incorporated herein by reference).  

10T  

Lease Agreement, dated April 27, 2006, between
  Courier Corporation and Thomas Minor Associates, LLC (filed as Exhibit 10.2
  to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K on May 3, 2006, and incorporated
  herein by reference).  

21*  

Schedule of Subsidiaries.  

23*  

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP, independent
  registered public accounting firm.  

31.1*  

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
  15 U.S.C. Section 10A, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2*  

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
  15 U.S.C. Section 10A, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.1*  

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
  18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.2*  

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
  18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

* Exhibit is furnished herewith.  

  + Designates a Company compensation plan or arrangement.  

25     

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on December 7, 2006.  

  COURIER
CORPORATION  

By: 

s/James F. Conway III   

James F. Conway III  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive
  Officer  

By:  

s/Peter M. Folger   

Peter M. Folger  

Senior Vice President and Chief
  Financial Officer  

By:  

s/Kathleen M. Leon   

Kathleen M. Leon  

Controller  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant in the
capacities indicated, on December 7, 2006.  

s/James F. Conway III  

s/George Q. Nichols   

James F. Conway III  

George Q. Nichols  

Chairman, President and  

Director  

Chief Executive Officer  

s/Kathleen Foley Curley   

s/Ronald L. Skates   

Kathleen Foley Curley 

Ronald L. Skates  

Director  

Director  

s/Richard K. Donahue   

s/Robert P. Story, Jr.   

Richard K. Donahue  

Robert P. Story, Jr.  

Director  

Director  

s/Edward J. Hoff   

s/W. Nicholas Thorndike   

Edward J. Hoff  

W. Nicholas Thorndike  

Director  

Director  

s/Arnold S. Lerner   

s/Susan L. Wagner   

Arnold S. Lerner  

Susan L. Wagner  

Director  

Director  

s/Peter K. Markell   

Peter K. Markell  

Director  

26  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Courier Corporation 
 North Chelmsford, Massachusetts   

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Courier
Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of September 30, 2006 and
September 24, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended September 30, 2006.  Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)2.  These financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position Courier Corporation and
subsidiaries as of September 30, 2006 and September 24, 2005, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended September 30, 2006, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also, in our opinion, such financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.  

  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006,
based on the criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated December 7, 2006
expressed an unqualified opinion on management s assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting and an
unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting.  

  As discussed in Note F, in fiscal 2006 the Company adopted SFAS 123R  Share
Based Payments  applying the modified retrospective method to all prior
periods.  

   DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Boston, Massachusetts 
December 7, 2006  

F-  1     

COURIER
CORPORATION   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME     

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.   

Fiscal year 2006 was a 53-week
period.  Prior year amounts have been
retroactively adjusted to reflect adoption of SFAS 123R (Notes A and F).   

F-  2     

COURIER
CORPORATION   

   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS     

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.   

Prior year amounts have been
retroactively adjusted to reflect adoption of SFAS 123R (Notes A and F).   

F-  3     

COURIER
CORPORATION   

   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
consolidated financial statements.   

   Prior year amounts have been retroactively adjusted
to reflect adoption of SFAS 123R (Notes A and F).   

F-  4     

COURIER
CORPORATION   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.   

Prior
year amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect adoption of SFAS 123R
(Notes A and F).   

F-  5     

COURIER
CORPORATION   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY     

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.   

Prior
year amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect adoption of SFAS 123R
(Notes A and F).   

F-  6     

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

   A.  Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies   

   Business:    Courier Corporation and its subsidiaries
( Courier  or the  Company ) print, publish and sell books.  Courier has two business segments: book
manufacturing and specialty book publishing. 
On April 28, 2006, the Company acquired Federal Marketing
Corporation, d/b/a Creative Homeowner ( Creative Homeowner ), a New
Jersey-based publisher and distributor of books, home plans, and related
products for the home and garden retail book market. On October 17, 2005, the
Company acquired Moore-Langen Printing Company, Inc. ( Moore Langen ) an
Indianapolis-based printer specializing in manufacturing book covers.  On
January 6, 2004, Courier purchased substantially all of the assets of Research
  Education Association, Inc. ( REA ). 
Both Creative Homeowner and REA are included in the specialty publishing
segment and Moore Langen is included in the Book Manufacturing segment (see
Note H). 

   Principles of Consolidation and Presentation:   The consolidated financial statements, prepared
on a fiscal year basis, include the accounts of Courier Corporation and its
subsidiaries after elimination of all significant intercompany
transactions.  Such financial statements
have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America ( generally accepted accounting
principles ).  Fiscal year 2006 was a
53-week period compared with fiscal years 2005 and 2004, which were 52-week
periods. 

   Financial Instruments:   Financial instruments consist primarily of cash, accounts receivable,
accounts payable and debt obligations. 
The Company classifies as cash and cash equivalents amounts on deposit
in banks and cash invested temporarily in various instruments with maturities
of three months or less at time of purchase. 
At September 30, 2006 and September 24, 2005, the fair market value of
the Company s financial instruments approximated their carrying values.  Interest income from these instruments was
$450,000 in 2006, $666,000 in 2005, and $230,000 in 2004 and is included in the
caption  Interest (income) expense, net  in the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Income. 

   Property, Plant and Equipment:   Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, including interest
on funds borrowed to finance the acquisition or construction of major capital
additions.  No interest was capitalized
in 2006 and 2005; interest capitalized in 2004 was $74,000.  The Company provides for depreciation of
property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis over periods ranging
from 10 to 40 years on buildings and improvements and from 3 to 11 years on
equipment and furnishings. 

  Leasehold improvements
are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their useful life or
the term of the lease.  Expenditures for
maintenance and repairs are charged against income as incurred; betterments
that increase the value or materially extend the life of the related assets are
capitalized.  When assets are sold or
retired, the cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts
and any gain or loss is included in income.  

F-  7     

Goodwill and Other Intangibles:   The Company evaluates possible impairment
annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value
of the assets may not be recoverable. There were no such events or
circumstances in the periods presented. 
In fiscal 2006, goodwill and other intangibles increased as a result of
the acquisitions of Moore Langen and Creative Homeowner (Note H).  The following table reflects the fiscal 2006
changes in both goodwill and other intangibles: 

* Net of accumulated
amortization of $2.1 million in the book manufacturing segment and $0.9 million
in the specialty publishing segment.  

  Customer lists for Moore
Langen and Creative Homeowner are being amortized over 10-year and 15-year
periods, respectively.  Annual
amortization expense for the next five years will be approximately $800,000.  

   Long-Lived Assets:   Management periodically reviews long-lived assets for impairment and does
not believe that there is any material impairment of any asset of the Company. 

   Prepublication Costs:   Prepublication costs, associated with the creating new titles in the
specialty publishing segment, are amortized to cost of sales using the
straight-line method over estimated useful lives of three years for REA, four
years for Dover Publications, Inc. ( Dover ), and five years for Creative
Homeowner. 

   Income Taxes:  
Deferred income tax liabilities and assets are determined based upon the
differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and
liabilities, and are measured by applying enacted tax rates and laws for the
taxable years in which these differences are expected to reverse. 

   Revenue Recognition:   Revenue is recognized upon shipment of goods to customers or upon the
transfer of ownership for those customers for whom the Company provides
manufacturing and distribution services. 
Revenue for distribution services is recognized as services are
provided.  Shipping and handling fees
billed to customers are classified as revenue. 

F-  8     

Use of Estimates:   The
process of preparing financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts at the date of the financial statements.  Actual results may differ from these
estimates. 

   Net Income per Share:   Basic net income per share is based on the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding each period. 
Diluted net income per share also includes potentially dilutive items
such as stock options (Note K). 

   Stock Split:   On
May 27, 2005, the Company distributed a three-for-two stock split, effected in
the form of a 50% stock dividend. 
Previously authorized but unissued shares were used to effect the stock
dividend.  Weighted average shares
outstanding and per share amounts presented in the accompanying financial
statements for periods prior to the stock split reflect the effect of the stock
split. 

   Adoption of New Accounting
Principle:    As more fully discussed in Note F below, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R,
 Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123R ).  The
effective date of this new standard was the beginning of the Company s 2006
fiscal year.  The Company implemented
this new standard on a retrospective basis.    Under this new standard, companies
are required to account for stock-based compensation transactions using a
fair-value method and to recognize the expense over the service period. 

   New Accounting Pronouncements:   In July 2006, the FASB
issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes 
( FIN No. 48 ), an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  Accounting for
Income Taxes.   FIN No. 48 applies to
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006; the Company s 2008 fiscal
year.  The Company does not believe the
adoption of FIN No. 48 will have a material effect on its consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

   B.
Inventories   

  Inventories are valued at
the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the last-in, first-out
(LIFO) method for approximately 37% and 41% of the Company s inventories at
September 30, 2006 and September 24, 2005, respectively.  Other inventories, primarily in the specialty
publishing segment, are determined on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis.  

F-  9     

The acquisitions of Moore
Langen and Creative Homeowner increased inventories by approximately $3.3
million.  Inventories consisted of the
following at September 30, 2006 and September 24, 2005:  

On
a FIFO basis, reported year-end inventories would have been higher by $5.5
million in fiscal 2006 and $5.4 million in fiscal 2005.  

   C.  Income Taxes   

  The provision for income taxes differs from that computed using the
statutory federal income tax rates for the following reasons:  

During the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company reversed an income tax reserve for $3.8
million pursuant to receipt of a state tax audit report and the expiration of
certain statutory limitations.  

  The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:  

F-  10  

The following is a
summary of the significant components of the Company s deferred tax assets and
liabilities as of September 30, 2006 and September 24, 2005:  

The Company also has deferred tax assets for state net operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $660,000 and $480,000 as of September 30, 2006
and September 24, 2005, respectively, for which the Company has fully provided
valuation allowances.  

  Non-current deferred tax assets have been netted against non-current
deferred tax liabilities for balance sheet classification purposes.  

   D.  Long-Term Debt   

  At September 30, 2006, the Company had $16.9 million in borrowings under
its long-term revolving credit facility; no such debt was outstanding at
September 24, 2005.  Other long-term debt
at September 30, 2006 and September 24, 2005 consisted of an obligation under
an industrial development bond arrangement totaling $425,000 and $510,000,
respectively, including current maturities of $88,000 and $85,000,
respectively.  This industrial bond
arrangement bears interest at 3%. At September 30, 2006, scheduled
aggregate principal payments of these obligations were $88,000 in 2007, $91,000
in 2008, $16,978,000 in 2009, $96,000 in 2010, and $57,000 in 2011.  The industrial bond arrangement provides for
a lien on the assets acquired with the proceeds.  

  The Company has a $60 million long-term revolving credit facility in
place under which the Company can borrow at a rate not to exceed LIBOR plus
1.5%; such rate was 5.8% at September 30, 2006. During 2006, the Company
increased the amount available under this facility from $45 million to $60
million and extended the maturity date of this facility to March 2009.  The revolving credit facility is available to
the Company for both its long-term and short-term financing needs.  

F-  11     

The revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants including
provisions relating to the maintenance of working capital, the level of capital
expenditures, the incurring of additional indebtedness and a quarterly test of
EBITDA to debt service.  It also provides
for a commitment fee not to exceed 3/8% per annum on the unused portion.  These fees are included in the caption  Interest
(income) expense, net  in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.  

   E.  Commitments and Contingencies   

  The Company is committed under various operating leases to make annual
rental payments for certain buildings and equipment. Amounts charged to
operations under such leases approximated $3,108,000 in 2006, $3,363,000 in
2005 and $3,902,000 in 2004.  As of September
30, 2006, minimum annual rental commitments under the Company s long-term
operating leases were approximately $3,103,000 in 2007, $2,282,000 in 2008,
$1,445,000 in 2009, $1,433,000 in 2010, $623,000 in 2011, and $1,546,000 in the
aggregate thereafter.  The Company leases
one of its facilities from a corporation owned in part by an executive of one
of the Company s subsidiaries.  The lease
agreement requires annual payments of approximately $276,000 through July
2007.  At September 30, 2006 and
September 24, 2005, the Company had letters of credit outstanding of $1,270,000
and $1,318,000, respectively.  

  In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to various
legal proceedings and claims.  The
Company believes that the ultimate outcome of these matters will not have a
material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements.  

   F. 
Stock Arrangements   

  In the first quarter of
fiscal 2006, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 123R.  All prior periods presented have been
restated on a retrospective basis consistent with the pro forma disclosures
required for those periods by SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ), as amended by SFAS No. 148.  Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the
Company applied APB 25 to account for its stock-based awards.  Under APB 25, the Company generally only
recorded stock-based compensation expense for the vesting of stock grants as
well as shares issued to directors in lieu of cash for annual retainer fees.  Under the provisions of APB 25, the Company
was not required to recognize compensation expense for the cost of stock
options or for shares issued under the Company s Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ESPP ).  Beginning with its 2006 fiscal year, with the
adoption of SFAS 123R, the Company recorded stock-based compensation expense
for the cost of stock options, stock grants, and shares issued under the ESPP.
The fair value of each option awarded was calculated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.  

F-  12     

Incremental
stock-based compensation recognized in selling and administrative expenses in
the accompanying financial statements, and the related tax benefit, were as
follows:  

The following table
provides information on the impact on the accompanying income statements of
adopting SFAS 123R on a retrospective basis.  

Unrecognized stock-based
compensation cost at September 30, 2006 was $1.7 million to be recognized over
a weighted-average period of 2.3   years.  

  The cumulative effect of
the adoption of SFAS 123R on the Company s consolidated balance sheet at
September 27, 2003 resulted in an increase in additional paid-in capital of
$3,177,000, a reduction in retained earnings of $3,233,000, elimination of
unearned compensation of $350,000, and a reduction in deferred income tax
liabilities of $294,000.  

   Stock Incentive Plan:   The Company s stock incentive plan provides for the granting of stock
options and stock grants up to a total of 2,064,375 shares.  Under the plan provisions, both non-qualified
and incentive stock options to purchase shares of the Company s common stock
may be granted to key employees.  The
option price per share may not be less than the fair market value of stock at
the time the option is granted and incentive stock options must expire not
later than ten years from the date of grant. 
The Company annually issues a combination of stock options and stock
grants to its key employees.  Prior to
2004, stock-based awards to key employees consisted primarily of stock
options.  Beginning in 2004, the Company
reduced the number of stock options granted and added restricted stock awards.
Stock options awarded in 2004 vested 

F-  13     

in one year.  Stock options awarded
in 2005 and 2006 vest over three years. Stock grants generally vest over 3
years. The following is a summary of all option activity for this plan:  

There were 26,078 non-vested restricted stock grants outstanding at the
beginning of fiscal 2006 with a weighted-average fair value of $26.65 per
share.  During 2006, 16,673 restricted
stock awards were granted with a weighted-average fair value of $40.01 per
share, of which 2,000 shares were forfeited. 
There were 4,781 restricted stock grants that vested in 2006 with a
weighted-average fair value of $12.60 per share.  At September 30, 2006, there were 35,970
non-vested stock grants outstanding with a weighted-average fair value of
$33.77.  

   Directors  Option Plan:   In January 2005, stockholders approved the Courier Corporation 2005
Stock Equity Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the  2005 Plan ). Under the plan
provisions, non-qualified stock options to purchase shares of the Company s
common stock may be granted to non-employee directors up to a total of 225,000
shares.  The option price per share is
the fair market value of stock at the time the option is granted.  The options are immediately exercisable and
have a term of five years. The 2005 Plan replaced the previous non-employee
directors  plan which had been adopted in 1989 (the  1989 Plan ).  The 1989 Plan allowed directors to make an
election to apply their annual retainer fee toward the granting of stock
options at a price per share that was $5 below the fair market value at the
time of the option award.  In the first
quarter of 

F-  14     

fiscal 2005, 9,000 options were granted under the 1989 Plan. No further
options will be granted under the 1989 Plan. The following is a summary of all
option activity for these plans:  

Directors may also elect to receive their annual retainer and committee
chair fees as shares of stock in lieu of cash. 
Such shares issued in 2006 and 2005 were 5,504 shares and 4,062 shares
at a fair market value of $36.34 and $34.49, respectively.  

   Employee Stock Purchase Plan:   The Company s 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ESPP ), as amended,
covers an aggregate of 337,500 shares of Company common stock for issuance
under the plan.  Eligible employees may
purchase shares of Company common stock at not less than 85% of fair market
value at the end of the grant period. 
Prior to 2005, the purchase price was determined based upon 85% of fair
market value at the beginning or end of the grant period.  During 2006, 2005, and 2004, 18,433 shares,
21,439 shares, and 26,184 shares, respectively, were issued under the plan at an
average price of $32.36 per share, $26.49 per share, and $21.25 per share,
respectively.  Since inception, 236,324   shares have been issued. 
At September 30, 2006, an additional 101,176 shares were reserved for
future issuances. 

   Stockholders  Rights Plan:   In March 1999, the Board of Directors adopted a ten-year stockholders 
rights plan.  Under the plan, the Company s
stockholders of record at March 19, 1999 received a right to purchase a unit ( Unit )
comprised of one one-thousandth of a share of preferred stock for each share of
common stock held on that date at a price of $100, subject to adjustment.  Until such rights become exercisable, one
such right will also attach to subsequently issued shares of common stock.  The rights become exercisable if a person or
group acquires 15% or more of the Company s common stock or after commencement
of a tender or exchange offer which would result in a person or group
beneficially owning 15% or more of the Company s common stock.  When exercisable, under certain conditions,
each right entitles the holder thereof to purchase Units of the Company s
preferred stock or shares of common stock of the acquirer, in each case having
a market value at that time of twice the right s exercise price.  

F-  15     

The Board of Directors will be entitled to redeem the rights at one cent
per right, under certain circumstances. 
The rights expire in 2009.  

   Stock-Based Compensation:   The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of the
grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. 

  The
following key assumptions were used to value options issued:  

The following is a summary of the weighted average fair value per share
of options granted during each of the past three fiscal years, based on the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model.  

G.  Retirement Plans   

  The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries maintain various defined
contribution retirement plans covering substantially all of its employees.  Dover, acquired in September 2000, also
provides retirement benefits through a defined benefit plan ( the Dover plan )
as described below.  

  Retirement costs of
multi-employer union plans consist of contributions determined in accordance
with the respective collective bargaining agreements.  Retirement benefits for non-union employees
are provided through the Courier Profit Sharing and Savings Plan, which
includes an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ).  Retirement costs included in the accompanying
financial statements amounted to approximately $3,870,000 in 2006, $3,820,000
in 2005 and $3,300,000 in 2004.  

  The Courier Profit Sharing and Savings Plan ( PSSP ) is qualified under
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. 
The plan allows eligible employees to contribute up to 100% of their
compensation, subject to IRS limitations, with the Company matching 25% of the
first 6% of pay contributed by the employee. 
The Company also makes contributions to the plan annually based on
profits each year for the benefit of all eligible non-union employees.  

F-  16     

Shares of Company common stock may be allocated to participants  ESOP
accounts annually based on their compensation as defined in the plan.  During 2006,   2005
and 2004, no such shares were allocated to eligible participants.  At September 30, 2006, the ESOP held 397,500   shares on behalf of the participants.  

  Dover has a noncontributory, defined benefit pension plan
covering substantially all of its employees. As of December 31, 2001, Dover
employees became eligible to participate in the PSSP.  As such, plan benefits under the Dover
defined benefit plan were frozen as of that date. No contributions have been
made to the Dover plan for any of the past three years.  In 2007, contributions are expected to be
$19,000.  

  The following tables provide information regarding the Dover
plan for the years ended September 30, 2006 and September 24, 2005.  

  Change in projected benefit obligation:  

Benefit payments in each
of the next five years are projected to be $262,000, $255,000, $245,000,
$268,000 and $264,000. Aggregate payments for the 2011-2015 period are
estimated to be $1,295,000.  

  Change in plan assets:  

Plan assets were invested entirely in Guaranteed Insurance
Contracts in 2006 and 2005.  

  Reconciliation of funded status:  

F-  17     

Components of the net periodic benefit cost:  

Actuarial
assumptions used to determine costs and benefit obligations:  

The Company s strategy is
to achieve a long-term rate of return sufficient to satisfy plan liabilities
while minimizing plan expenses and mitigating downside risks. Assets are
currently allocated 100% to Guaranteed Insurance Contracts, however the Company
reviews this weighting from time to time in order to achieve overall objectives
in light of current circumstances.  

  The expected long-term
rate of return on assets of 7% was determined based on historical returns for
investments consistent with Plan objectives, but weighted primarily towards
investments in debt securities. While actual returns in 2006 and 2005 were
below the assumed rate of return, the assumed rate gives consideration to
historical longer-term rates.  

  Prepaid pension cost at
September 30, 2006 and September 24, 2005 is included in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheet under the caption  Other assets.   

   H. Business Acquisitions   

  On
April 28, 2006, the Company acquired Federal Marketing Corporation, d/b/a
Creative Homeowner ( Creative Homeowner ), a New Jersey-based publisher and
distributor of books, home plans, and related products for the home and garden
retail book market. The Company purchased 100% of the stock of Creative
Homeowner in a $37 million cash transaction. The acquisition was accounted for
as a purchase, and accordingly, Creative Homeowner s financial results were
included in the specialty publishing segment in the consolidated financial
statements from the date of acquisition. 
The allocation of the purchase price to assets acquired included, in the
accompanying financial statements, approximately $16.6 million to goodwill,
$11.5 million to customer lists, and $1.4 million to trade name. Goodwill
deductible for tax purposes is approximately $16 million.  Other assets acquired included $7.5 million
of accounts receivable and $2.9 million of inventories.  Accounts payable and other current
liabilities assumed were $4.9 million and $2.1 million, respectively.  

  The
following unaudited pro forma information presents a summary of consolidated
results of operations of the Company and Creative Homeowner as if the
acquisition had occurred at the   

F-  18     

beginning
of fiscal 2006 and 2005, with pro forma adjustments to give effect to
amortization of customer lists, interest expense on acquisition debt and
certain other purchase accounting adjustments, together with related income tax
effects.  

On October 17, 2005, the
Company acquired Moore-Langen Printing Company, Inc. ( Moore Langen ), an
Indianapolis-based printer specializing in manufacturing book covers, in a $15
million cash transaction.  The
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase, and accordingly, Moore Langen s
financial results were included in the book manufacturing segment in the
consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.  The allocation of the purchase price to
assets acquired included, in the accompanying financial statements,
approximately $5.5 million to goodwill, which is tax deductible, $0.9 million
to trade name, and $230,000 to customer lists.  

  On January 6, 2004, the
Company purchased substantially all of the assets of Research   Education
Association ( REA ), a publisher of test preparation and study guide books and
software for high school, college and graduate students, and
professionals.  The acquisition was
accounted for as a purchase, and accordingly, REA s financial results were
included in the specialty publishing segment in the consolidated financial
statements from the date of acquisition. 
The purchase price was approximately $12 million, with an allocation of
approximately $8.4 million to goodwill and $0.7 million to prepublication costs
in the accompanying financial statements. In addition, a required purchase
accounting adjustment was made to write up inventory by approximately $1
million to fair market value when REA was acquired.  

   I.  Business Segments   

  The Company has two business segments: book manufacturing and specialty
publishing. The book manufacturing segment offers a full range of services from
production through storage and distribution for religious, educational and
specialty trade book publishers.  The
Company has aggregated its book manufacturing business into one segment because
of strong similarities in the economic characteristics, the nature of products
and services, production processes, class of customer and distribution methods
used. Moore Langen, acquired in October 2005, was added to this segment in
fiscal 2006.  The specialty publishing
segment consists of Dover, REA, beginning with the second quarter of fiscal
2004, and Creative Homeowner, beginning with its acquisition in April 2006 (see
Note H).  

  The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described
in Note A.  In evaluating segment
performance, management primarily focuses on income or loss before taxes,
stock-based compensation, and other income. The elimination of intersegment
sales and related profit represents sales from the book manufacturing segment
to the specialty publishing segment. 
Interest is allocated to the specialty publishing segment based on the
acquisition costs of Dover, REA, and Creative Homeowner, reduced by cash
generated by each business since acquisition. 

F-  19     

Interest allocated to the book manufacturing segment includes costs
associated with funding the Moore Langen acquisition.  Stock-based compensation is reflected as  unallocated 
in the following table.  Other income,
discussed in Note J, is also reflected as  unallocated.  Corporate expenses
that are allocated to the segments include various support functions such as
information technology services, finance, human resources and engineering, and
include depreciation and amortization expense related to corporate assets.  The corresponding corporate asset balances
are not allocated to the segments.  Unallocated
corporate assets consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and fixed
assets used by the corporate support functions.  

  The following table provides segment information as required
under SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information.   

F-  20  

Export sales as a percentage of consolidated sales were approximately 19%
in 2006 and 21% in both 2005 and 2004. 
Approximately 90% of export sales were in the book manufacturing segment
in fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004. 
Sales to the Company s largest customer amounted to approximately 23%   of consolidated sales in 2006, 28% in 2005 and 27% in 2004.
In addition, sales to another customer amounted to 16% of consolidated sales in
2006, 19% in 2005 and 17% in 2004.  Both
of these customers are in the book manufacturing segment and no other customer
accounted for more than 10% of consolidated sales.  Customers are granted credit on an unsecured
basis.  Receivables for the two largest
customers, as a percentage of consolidated accounts receivable, were 24% at
September 30, 2006 and 23% at September 24, 2005.  

   J.  Other Income   

   On May 26, 2004, the Company completed the sale of  approximately
200,000 square feet of unoccupied and unutilized portions of its multi-building
manufacturing complex in Westford, Massachusetts for $1.7 million, resulting in
a pretax gain of $250,000, or $.01 per diluted share.  

   K.  Net
Income per Share   

  Following is a reconciliation of the shares used in the
calculation of basic and diluted net income per share.  Potentially dilutive shares, calculated using
the treasury stock method, consist of shares issued under the Company s stock
option plans.  

L.  Derivative Financial Instruments   

  At the end of fiscal
2006, the Company had a forward exchange contract to purchase approximately 800,000
euros as a hedge against a foreign currency equipment purchase commitment,
designated as a cash flow hedge.  The
Company does not use financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  

   M.  Subsequent
Event   

  On November 9, 2006, the
Company increased its revolving credit facility to $100 million.  In addition, the bank group was expanded from
three banks to five banks and the maturity date of this facility was extended
to March 2011.  

F-  21     

COURIER CORPORATION  

FIVE-YEAR
FINANCIAL SUMMARY  

Prior year amounts have been retroactively adjusted to
reflect the adoption of SFAS 123R (Notes A and F).   

   Net income per diluted share is based on weighted average
shares outstanding; stockholders  equity per share is based on shares
outstanding at year end. Shares outstanding and per share amounts have been
retroactively adjusted to reflect three-for-two stock splits distributed on May
27, 2005 and December 5, 2003 (Note A).   

   Net sales, gross profit, net income, net income per diluted
share and return on stockholders  equity for 2003 and 2002 reflect continuing
operations.  Results from a discontinued
operation were income of $848,000 (including a gain on disposal) in 2003 and a
loss of $120,000 in 2002.   

*                         Fiscal 2006 was a 53-week
period.  Fiscal 2006 results include the
reversal of a $3.8 million, or $.30 per diluted  share, income tax
reserve (Note C).  

F-  22     

COURIER CORPORATION  

SELECTED QUARTERLY
FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)  

Diluted
share amounts are based on weighted average shares outstanding.  Per share amounts and stock prices have been   

   retroactively adjusted to reflect a three-for-two
stock split distributed on May 27, 2005 (see Notes A and K).   

   Common shares of the Company are traded over-the-counter on
the Nasdaq National Market - symbol  CRRC.    

   There were 985 stockholders of record as of September
30, 2006.   

(1)            Two cash dividends were
declared in the second quarter of fiscal 2005. The second dividend, declared in
March 2005, was announced in conjunction with a three-for-two stock split (see
Note A).  As such, no cash dividend was
declared in the third quarter of fiscal 2005.  

F-  23     

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   

    FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION    

   The Annual
Report to shareholders includes forward-looking statements.  Statements that describe future expectations,
plans or strategies are considered  forward-looking statements  as that term is
defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and releases
issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The words  believe ,  expect ,  anticipate ,  intend ,
 estimate  and other expressions which are predictions of or indicate future
events and trends and which do not relate to historical matters identify
forward-looking statements.  Such
statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.  Factors that could affect actual results
include, among others, changes in customers  demand for the Company s products,
including seasonal changes in customer orders, changes in raw material costs
and availability, pricing actions by competitors, consolidation among customers
and competitors, success in the integration of acquired businesses, changes in
operating expenses including energy costs, changes in technology, difficulties
in the start up of new equipment or information technology systems, changes in
copyright laws, changes in tax regulations, changes in the Company s effective
income tax rate, and general changes in economic conditions, including currency
fluctuations and changes in interest rates. 
Although the Company believes that the assumptions underlying the
forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be
inaccurate, and therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statements will prove to be accurate. 
The forward-looking statements included herein are made as of the date
hereof, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly such
statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.   

   OVERVIEW   

  Courier
Corporation, founded in 1824, is one of America s leading book manufacturers
and specialty publishers.  The Company
has two business segments: book manufacturing and specialty publishing.  The book manufacturing segment streamlines
the process of bringing books from the point of creation to the point of
use.  Based on sales, Courier is the
fifth largest book manufacturer in the United States and largest in the
Northeast, offering services from prepress and production through storage and
distribution.  The specialty publishing
segment consists of Dover Publications, Inc. ( Dover ) and Research  
Education Association, Inc. ( REA ), as well as the recent acquisition of
Federal Marketing Corporation, d/b/a Creative Homeowner ( Creative Homeowner ).  Dover publishes over 9,000 titles in more
than 30 specialty categories ranging from literature to paper dolls, and music
scores to clip art.  REA publishes test
preparation and study-guide books for high school, college and graduate students,
and professionals.  Creative Homeowner
publishes and distributes books, home plans and related products to the home
and garden market.  

F-  24     

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

  FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS  

  (dollars in
thousands except per share amounts)  

Fiscal
year 2006 was a 53-week period compared with 52-week periods in fiscal years
2005 and 2004. The pro rata effect of the extra week contributed approximately
2% to fiscal 2006 increases in comparison to fiscal 2005 results.  

  Revenues
in fiscal 2006 increased in both of the Company s operating segments compared
to last year.  Acquisitions made during
fiscal 2006 contributed positively to financial results, adding $24 million to
sales and $.06 to earnings per diluted share. 
Book manufacturing revenues were up 14% in fiscal 2006 compared to last
year, reflecting higher textbook sales and the Moore Langen acquisition discussed
below.  Sales in the specialty publishing
segment for fiscal 2006 were up 43% compared to the prior year as a result of
growth in both of the segment s existing businesses as well as the acquisition
during the third quarter of Creative Homeowner. Net income was $28.4 million,
which included $3.8 million, or $.30 per diluted share, from the reversal of
tax accruals resulting from a state tax audit report received during the fourth
quarter and the expiration of certain statutory limitations.  Without the effect of this tax accrual
reversal, net income was $24.6 million, or $1.95 per diluted share, up 18% over
fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2005, revenues were 7.5 % higher than the prior year,
primarily due to growth in four-color textbooks to the education market.  

     Business Acquisitions     

  On April 28, 2006, the Company acquired Creative
Homeowner, a New Jersey-based publisher and distributor of books, home plans,
and related products for the $340-million home and garden retail book
market.  On October 17, 2005, the Company
acquired Moore-Langen Printing Company, Inc. ( Moore Langen ) an
Indianapolis-based printer specializing in manufacturing book covers.  On January 6, 2004, the Company purchased
substantially all of the assets of REA, a publisher of test preparation and
study-guide books.  Each of these acquisitions
was accounted for as a purchase, and accordingly, the financial results of
Creative Homeowner and REA were included in the specialty publishing segment
from the date of acquisition and the financial results of Moore Langen were
included in the book manufacturing segment from the date of acquisition.  

F-  25     

Stock-Based Compensation     

  In the first quarter of
fiscal 2006, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards 123R,  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123R ), an accounting
rule requiring the expensing of stock options. 
All prior periods presented have been restated on a retrospective basis
consistent with the pro forma disclosures required for those periods by SFAS
No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ).  Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the
Company applied APB 25 to account for its stock-based   awards.  Under APB 25, the Company generally only
recorded stock-based compensation expense for the vesting of stock grants as
well as shares issued to directors in lieu of cash for annual retainer
fees.  Under the provisions of APB 25,
the Company was not required to recognize compensation expense for the cost of
stock options or for shares issued under the Company s Employee Stock Purchase
Plan ( ESPP ).  Beginning with its 2006
fiscal year, with the adoption of SFAS 123R, the Company recorded stock-based
compensation   expense for the cost of stock
options (using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model), stock grants, and
shares issued under the ESPP. The incremental impact of adoption of this
standard was a reduction in net income of approximately $784,000, $1,266,000
and $1,306,000 in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  The following table
provides information on the impact on the accompanying income statements of
adopting SFAS 123R on a retrospective basis.  

Unrecognized
stock-based compensation cost at September 30, 2006 was $1.7 million to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.3   years.  The cumulative effect of the adoption of SFAS
123R on the Company s consolidated balance sheet at September 27, 2003 resulted
in an increase in additional paid-in capital of $3,177,000, a reduction in
retained earnings of $3,233,000, elimination of unearned compensation of
$350,000, and a reduction in deferred income tax liabilities of $294,000.  

  The Company annually issues a combination of stock options and stock
grants to its key employees under its stock plans.  Prior to 2004, stock-based awards to key
employees consisted primarily of stock options. 
Beginning in 2004, the Company reduced the number of stock options
granted and added restricted stock awards. Stock options awarded in 2004 vested
in one year.  Stock options awarded in
2005 and 2006 vest over three years. Stock grants generally vest over 3 years.
Under the Company s ESPP, eligible employees may purchase shares of stock for
not less than 85% of fair market value at the end of the grant period.  Prior to 2005, the purchase price was
determined based upon 85% of fair market value at the beginning or end of the
grant period. In January 2005, stockholders approved a new   

F-  26     

stock equity plan for non-employee directors (the  2005 Plan ).  The option price per share is the fair market
value at the time the option is granted. 
The 2005 Plan replaced a plan that had allowed directors to make an
election to apply their annual retainer fee toward the granting of stock
options at a price per share that was $5 below the fair market value at the
time of the option award.  During the first quarter of fiscal 2005 prior
to the adoption of the new plan, 9,000
shares were issued to non-employee directors under the previous Directors
Option Plan.  

     Book Manufacturing Segment     

   SEGMENT HIGHLIGHTS   

  (dollars in
thousands)  

*Fiscal
year 2006 was a 53-week period.  

  Within
this segment, the Company focuses on three key publishing markets: education,
religious and specialty trade.  Sales to
the education market rose 11% in fiscal 2006 compared with 2005, with 4% of
this increase attributed to the addition of Moore Langen.  Sales increased in all levels of the market,
with particular strength in four-color textbooks for elementary and high
schools.  The newest 4-color press
installation in December 2005, and related bindery expansion, provided the
necessary capacity to meet the growing demand for educational books. Sales
growth in the religious and the specialty trade markets increased 2% and 9%,
respectively, compared with the prior year. In fiscal 2005, compared with
fiscal 2004, sales to the education market rose 15%, with gains achieved at all
levels, from elementary and high school through college.  Growth in four-color textbooks to the
education market was particularly strong in fiscal 2005, enabled by a new
four-color press installed in April 2004. In the religious market, sales were
flat in 2005 compared to the prior year, reflecting a decision to discontinue
manufacturing certain low-priced work. 
Sales to the specialty trade market were up 7% in fiscal 2005 compared
to 2004 as a result of strong demand late in the year.  

  Gross
profit in this segment increased 11% to $63.2 million compared with 2005,
reflecting the increased sales volume. As a percentage of sales, gross profit
decreased slightly to 28.7% in fiscal 2006 from 29.5% in 2005, reflecting a
$1.8 million increase in utility costs as well as the impact of a highly
competitive industry environment. In 2005, gross profit in this segment
increased by 16% compared with 2004 and as a percentage of sales, increased to
29.5% in 2005 from 27.9% in 2004.  Growth
in sales volume, especially in four-color textbooks, and continued productivity
gains, more than offset the effects of increased energy and medical costs.  

  Selling
and administrative expenses in this segment were $30.3 million, up $3.6 million
or 13% over the prior year.  This
increase was primarily due to the addition of Moore Langen and the 53  rd   week in fiscal 2006.  As a percentage of sales, selling and
administrative expenses were 13.8% in 2006, comparable to the prior year.  In 2005, selling and administrative expenses
were $26.7 million, 10% higher than 2004,   

F-  27     

reflecting
higher compensation costs of approximately $1.5 million associated with
increased sales and profitability, as well as audit, legal and other expenses
related to compliance with the provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley. As a percentage of
sales, selling and administrative expenses increased slightly to 13.8% in 2005
from 13.7% in 2004.  

  Intercompany
interest income allocated to the book manufacturing segment in fiscal 2006
increased to $733,000 compared to $700,000 in 2005. This increase was primarily
the result of higher interest rates offset in part by interest expense
allocated to Moore Langen. The increase in allocated interest income in fiscal
2005 from $330,000 in 2004 reflects cash generated within the segment as well
as higher interest rates.  

  Pretax
income in the Company s book manufacturing segment in fiscal 2006 increased 8%
to $33.6 million, or, on an after-tax basis, $1.73 per diluted share compared
to $31.1 million, or $1.62 per diluted share, in 2005.  Fiscal 2005 pretax income of $31.1 million,
or $1.62 per diluted share, increased 22% compared to $25.4 million, or $1.35
per diluted share, in 2004.  

     Specialty Publishing Segment     

   SEGMENT
HIGHLIGHTS   

  (dollars in thousands)  

*Fiscal year 2006
was a 53-week period.  

  The Company s specialty publishing segment is comprised of Dover, REA
since its acquisition in January 2004, and Creative Homeowner since its
acquisition on April 28, 2006.  Creative
Homeowner is a New Jersey-based publisher and distributor of books, home plans,
and related products for the $340-million home and garden retail book
market.  Fiscal 2006 sales in this
segment were $57.5 million, a 43% increase over the prior year, with approximately
$12 million of the increase attributable to the addition of Creative
Homeowner.  Dover s sales increased 12%
in fiscal 2006 to $39.0 million compared to 2005, including a 17% increase in
trade sales, a 16% increase in international sales, and a 6% increase in
direct-to-consumer sales.  Sales at REA
increased 20% in fiscal 2006 compared to the prior year.  The sales growth at both Dover and REA
reflect the success of new marketing and merchandising programs as well as the
completion of information technology and distribution upgrades which enhanced
customer service and accelerated deliveries. The segment reported fiscal 2005
sales of $40.3 million, down 1% from $40.8 million in fiscal 2004.  REA sales totaled $5.6 million in fiscal 2005
compared to $3.9 million in 2004, which was a partial year starting at the date
of acquisition in January 2004.  Dover
sales were down 6% in 2005 to $34.7 million compared to the prior year.  The decline at Dover reflected soft sales to
trade retailers as well as fourth-quarter shipment delays and a resulting increase
in order backlogs of approximately $600,000 in conjunction with a major
warehouse relocation   

F-  28     

project and the implementation of an enterprise-wide information
system.  Despite these difficulties,
Dover s direct-to-consumer sales for 2005 were up 12% over 2004.  

  Gross
profit in this segment increased 38% to $25.5 million in 2006 reflecting the
improvement in Dover s sales and the contribution of Creative Homeowner.  As a percentage of sales, gross profit was
44.3 % compared to 45.9% in 2005, resulting from costs associated with the
acquisition of Creative Homeowner. 
Creative Homeowner s gross profit percentage since acquisition was 32%,
including the cost associated with a required purchase accounting write-up to
fair market value of approximately $370,000 in their opening inventory and
which had been sold and charged to cost of sales during 2006.  Gross profit in the specialty publishing
segment was $18.5 million in 2005 compared to $19.5 million in 2004.  Dover s gross profit as a percentage of sales
decreased to 46.2% from 49.4% in the prior year, reflecting the reduction in
sales.  In addition, Dover incurred costs
of approximately $500,000 in 2005 in connection with relocating a significant
portion of Dover s leased offsite warehousing space to available warehouse
space owned by the Company.  REA s gross
profit percentage for fiscal 2005 was 44.2% versus 34.4% in 2004.  This improvement was due, in large part, to
the expense related to a required purchase accounting write up of inventory to
fair market value when REA was acquired. 
The original inventory write up was approximately $1 million and was
being expensed as the acquired inventory was sold.  Approximately $250,000 of the inventory write
up was expensed in 2005 compared to $600,000 in 2004.  

  Selling
and administrative expenses for this segment were $18.4 million in 2006, up
from $14.3 million in 2005.  The
acquisition of Creative Homeowner represents approximately $3.0 million of the
increase.  Creative Homeowner s selling
and administrative expenses include approximately $325,000 for amortization of
intangibles.  Selling and administrative
expenses for Dover and REA increased by $1.1 million, or 8%, compared to the
prior year, primarily as a result of increased sales and related marketing expenses.  As a percentage of sales, selling and
administrative expenses in 2006 decreased to 32.0% from 35.5% in the prior
year.  In 2005, selling and
administrative expenses in the specialty publishing segment were $14.3 million,
an increase of 12% over 2004, primarily as a result of the addition of REA to
the segment in January 2004 and increases in sales and marketing activities at
Dover.  In addition, a project was
underway in 2005 to replace information systems at Dover with a new fully
integrated system.  The implementation of
the SAP system and other process improvements began in July 2005 at Dover and
added approximately $200,000 of expenses in 2005.  

  Intercompany
interest expense is allocated to the specialty publishing segment based on the
acquisition cost of Dover, REA, and Creative Homeowner, reduced by cash
generated by each business since acquisition. 
Such intercompany interest expense in fiscal 2006 was $915,000 compared
to $312,000 in 2005 and $307,000 in 2004. 
The increase in interest expense allocated to this segment in 2006
reflects the $37 million acquisition of Creative Homeowner.  Intercompany interest expense for Dover and
REA decreased in 2006 reflecting the benefit of cash generated by these businesses.  Intercompany interest expense for Dover and
REA was comparable between fiscal 2005 and 2004.  

  In
fiscal 2006, pretax income in the specialty publishing segment increased 58%
over the prior year to $6.1 million, or, on an after-tax basis, $.31 per
diluted share.  Pretax income in fiscal
2005 was $3.9 million, or, on an after-tax basis, $.19 per diluted share,
compared to $6.5 million, or $.33 per diluted share in 2004.  REA contributed approximately $170,000 to
pretax income, or $.01 per diluted share, in 2004.  

F-  29     

Total Consolidated Company     

  Interest
expense, net of interest income, was $182,000 in fiscal 2006 while interest
income, net of interest expense, was $388,000 in 2005 and $23,000 in 2004.  During the past three years, the Company had
not borrowed under its revolving credit facility until April 2006 when
approximately $20 million was borrowed towards the purchase of Creative
Homeowner.  Average debt in 2006 under
the revolving credit facility was approximately $6.9 million at an average
annual interest rate of 5.7%.  Interest
expense also includes commitment fees and other costs associated with
maintaining this credit facility.  Cash
investments in 2006 averaged approximately $11.6 million at an average annual
interest rate of 3.9%.  The Company s
average cash investments for 2005 were approximately $26.5 million, earning a
2.5% average annual interest rate, and approximately $17.7 million for 2004,
earning at an average annual interest rate of 1.3%.  These investments generated interest income
of approximately $450,000 in 2006, $666,000 in 2005, and $230,000 in 2004.
Capitalized interest, related to a new four-color press, was $74,000 in
2004.  No interest was capitalized in
2006 or 2005.  

  Other
income in 2004 is comprised of a pretax gain of approximately $250,000
resulting from the sale of an unused portion of the Company s multi-building
manufacturing complex in Westford, Massachusetts.  

  During
the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company reversed an income tax accrual pursuant
to receipt of a state tax audit report and the expiration of certain statutory
limitations.  As a result, the Company s
2006 effective tax rate reflects a reduction in its income tax expense of $3.8
million, or $.30 per diluted share. Without the effect of this tax accrual
reversal, the effective tax rate was 35.6% compared to 36.3% in 2005.  This decline in the effective tax rate is due
in large part to the impact of the retrospective adoption of SFAS 123R at the
beginning of fiscal 2006.  Although
non-deductible stock compensation costs increased the effective tax rate by
0.4% in fiscal 2006, the impact in 2005 was higher at 0.9%.  In addition, the fiscal 2006 tax rate
reflects a federal tax benefit for manufacturers associated with the American
Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The Company s effective tax rate for 2005 was 36.3%
compared to 36.1% for 2004, reflecting a reduced federal tax benefit from
export related income associated with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.  

  For purposes of computing
net income per diluted share, weighted average shares outstanding increased by
approximately 118,000 shares in 2006 and 136,000 shares in 2005.  These increases were primarily due to options
exercised and shares issued under the Company s stock plans and the impact of
potentially dilutive shares.  

   LIQUIDITY
AND CAPITAL RESOURCES   

  Operating
activities provided $39.2 million of cash in 2006 compared to $34.2 million in
2005.  Net income for 2006 was $28.4
million, stock-based compensation was $1.4 million, depreciation was $11.1
million, amortization of prepublication costs was $3.4 million, and
amortization of intangible assets was $0.3 million.  Working capital changes used approximately
$6.1 million of cash, as a result of an increase in accounts receivable and a
reduction in accrued taxes.  

  Investment activities in
2006 used $84.8 million of cash, including $51.2 million for the acquisitions
of Moore Langen and Creative Homeowner. 
Capital expenditures were approximately $29.4 million, including
approximately $21 million for new four-color presses and related equipment and
an expansion of the Kendallville, Indiana facility.  A four-color press was installed in December
2005 and deposits were made on another four-color press to be installed in
December 2006.  This press is identical
to the presses installed in April 2004 and December 2005.  Capital also included investments to increase

F-  30     

productivity, lower costs
and improve employee safety.  For fiscal
2007, capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $25 to $28
million.  This amount includes completing
the current four-color expansion program, as well as expanding capacity in the
religious book manufacturing operation. Prepublication costs in 2006 were
approximately $4.3 million, reflecting increased investments in new title
offerings at Dover and REA as well as the acquisition of Creative
Homeowner.  These costs are expected to
increase to approximately $5 million in 2007, reflecting a full year of
Creative Homeowner publishing activity and modest growth at Dover and REA.  

  Financing activities
provided approximately $13.1 million of cash in 2006.  The Company borrowed approximately $20
million under the revolving credit facility towards the purchase of Creative
Homeowner in April.  At September 30, 2006,
the Company had $16.9 million in borrowings under its $60 million long-term
revolving credit facility.  Dividend
payments in 2006 were $5.9 million, 46% higher than the $4.1 million paid in
2005.  Proceeds from stock plans were
$1.7 million, primarily from the exercise of stock options.  The revolving credit facility, which bears
interest at a floating rate, is used by the Company for both its long-term and
short-term financing needs.  In May 2006,
the Company increased the amount available under this facility from $45 million
to $60 million and extended the maturity date to March 2009.  In November 2006, subsequent to fiscal 2006
year end, the revolving credit facility was increased to $100 million, the bank
group was expanded from three banks to five banks and the maturity date was
extended to 2011.  The Company believes
that its cash on hand, cash from operations and the available credit facility
will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through 2007.  

  The following table
summarizes the Company s contractual obligations and commitments at September
30, 2006 to make future payments as well as its existing commercial
commitments.  Purchase obligations
represent amounts for capital commitments for a new 4-color press and other
projects.  

Long-term debt includes
$16.9 million under the Company s revolving credit facility, which had a
maturity date of March 2009 as of September 30, 2006.  In November 2006, the maturity date of this
facility was extended to 2011.  

F-  31     

NEW
ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS   

  In July 2006, the
FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes 
( FIN No. 48 ), an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  Accounting for
Income Taxes.   FIN No. 48 applies to
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006; the Company s 2008 fiscal
year.  In September 2006, the FASB issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers  Accounting
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  ( SFAS 158 ), which
will be effective at the end of the Company s 2007 fiscal year.  The Company does not believe the adoption of
either FIN No. 48 or SFAS 158 will have a material effect on its consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

   RISKS   

  Our businesses operate in
markets that are highly competitive, and the Company faces competition on the
basis of price, product quality, speed of delivery, customer service,
availability of appropriate printing capacity and paper, related services and
technology support.  Some of our
competitors have greater sales, assets and financial resources than our Company
and others, particularly those in foreign countries, may derive significant
advantages from local governmental regulation, including tax holidays and other
subsidies. These competitive pressures could affect prices or customers  demand
for our products, impacting our profit margins and/or resulting in a loss of
customers and market share. The Company derived approximately 40% of its 2006
revenues, 47% of its 2005 revenues, and 44% of its 2004 revenues from two major
customers.  A significant reduction in
order volumes or price levels from either of them could have a material adverse
effect on the Company.  

   CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES   

  The
Company s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.  The preparation of these
financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the amounts reported in these financial statements and accompanying
notes.   On an ongoing basis, management
evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to
collectibility of accounts receivable, recovery of inventories, impairment of
goodwill and other intangibles, prepublication costs and income taxes.  Management bases its estimates and judgments
on historical experience and various other factors believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making
judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the periods presented.  Actual results
may differ from these estimates.  The
significant accounting policies which management believes are most critical to
aid in fully understanding and evaluating the Company s reported financial
results include the following:  

   Accounts Receivable   Management
performs ongoing credit evaluations of the Company s customers and adjusts
credit limits based upon payment history and the customer s current credit
worthiness.  Collections and payments
from customers are continuously monitored. 
A provision for estimated credit losses is determined based upon
historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have
been identified.  If the financial
condition of the Company s customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an
impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be
required. 

   Inventories    Management
records reductions in the cost basis of inventory for excess and obsolete
inventory based primarily upon historical and forecasted product demand.  If actual market conditions are less
favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory charges may
be required. 

F-  32     

Goodwill and
Other Intangibles   Other intangibles include customer
lists which are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from
ten to fifteen years. The Company evaluates possible impairment of goodwill and
other intangibles annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that
the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable.  The Company completed the annual impairment
test at September 30, 2006 resulting in no change to the nature or carrying
amounts of its intangible assets. 
Changes in market conditions or poor operating results could result in a
decline in value thereby potentially requiring an impairment charge in the
future. 

   Prepublication Costs  
The Company capitalizes prepublication costs, which include the costs of
acquiring rights to publish a work and costs associated with bringing a
manuscript to publication such as artwork and editorial efforts.  Prepublication costs are amortized on a
straight-line basis over periods ranging from three to five years.  Management regularly evaluates the sales and
profitability of the products based upon historical and forecasted demand.  Based upon this evaluation, adjustments may
be required to amortization expense. 

   Income Taxes    The income tax provision and related accrued
taxes are based on amounts reported on the Company s tax returns and changes in
deferred taxes.  Deferred income tax liabilities and assets are determined
based upon the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of
assets and liabilities.  Changes in the
recoverability of the Company s deferred tax assets or audits by tax
authorities could result in future charges or credits to income tax expense,
and related accrued and deferred taxes. 

F-  33  

COURIER
CORPORATION  

SCHEDULE II    

  CONSOLIDATED
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  

(1)   Other changes reflect amounts related to
business acquisitions.  

S-  1  

<EX-21>
 2
 a06-25099_1ex21.htm
 EX-21

EXHIBIT
21   

    COURIER
CORPORATION    

    SUBSIDIARIES
OF REGISTRANT    

Registrant has the
following subsidiaries:  

% Owned   

Jurisdiction of   

by Immediate   

Name   

Immediate Parent   

Incorporation   

Parent   

Book-mart Press, Inc.  

National Publishing Company  

Delaware  

100  

%  

Courier New Media, Inc.  

National Publishing Company  

Massachusetts  

100  

%  

Courier Companies, Inc.  

National Publishing Company  

Massachusetts  

100  

%  

Courier Kendallville, Inc.  

National Publishing Company  

Indiana  

100  

%  

Courier Properties, Inc.  

National Publishing Company  

Massachusetts  

100  

%  

Dover Publications, Inc.  

National Publishing Company  

New York  

100  

%  

Research   Education Association, Inc.  

National Publishing Company  

Delaware  

100  

%  

Federal
  Marketing Corporation, 
  d/b/a Creative Homeowner  

National Publishing Company  

New Jersey  

100  

%  

Moore-Langen Printing Company, Inc.  

National Publishing Company  

Indiana  

100  

%  

National Publishing Company  

Courier Corporation  

Pennsylvania  

100  

%  

Courier Foreign Sales Corporation Ltd.  

National Publishing Company  

Jamaica  

99  

%  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 3
 a06-25099_1ex23.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit
23   

   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We consent to the
incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-122136,
333-122137, 333-03201, 333-71631, 333-75187, 333-75189 and 333-118033 on Form
S-8 of our reports dated December 7, 2006, relating to the consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedule of Courier Corporation
and subsidiaries (which report includes an explanatory paragraph concerning the
adoption of SFAS 123R  Share-Based Payments  by application of the modified
retrospective transition method), and management s report on the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting appearing in and incorporated by
reference in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Courier Corporation for the year
ended September 30, 2006.  

  DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
Boston, Massachusetts 
December 7, 2006  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 a06-25099_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit
31.1   

    CERTIFICATION    

  I, James F. Conway III, certify that:  

  1.                  I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Courier Corporation; 

  2.                  Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                  Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                  The registrant s
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

  a)                 designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries
(except such disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
financial reporting of Moore-Langen Printing Company, Inc. and Federal
Marketing Corporation d/b/a Creative Homeowner, each of which was acquired by
the registrant during fiscal 2006), is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

  b)                designed such
internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

  c)                 evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  d)                disclosed in this
report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.     The registrant s other
certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions):  

  a)                  all significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

  b)                 any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting.  

December 7, 2006  

By:   

s/James F. Conway III   

Date  

James F. Conway III  

Chairman,
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 a06-25099_1ex31d2.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit
31.2   

    CERTIFICATION    

  I, Peter M. Folger,
certify that:  

  1.                  I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Courier Corporation; 

  2.                  Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                  Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                  The registrant s
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

  a)                 designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries
(except such disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
financial reporting of Moore-Langen Printing Company, Inc. and Federal
Marketing Corporation d/b/a Creative Homeowner, each of which was acquired by
the registrant during fiscal 2006), is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

  b)                designed such
internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

  c)                 evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  d)                disclosed in this
report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                   The registrant s other certifying officer
and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control
over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee
of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):  

  a)                  all significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

  b)                 any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting.  

December 7, 2006  

By:   

s/ Peter M. Folger   

Date  

Peter M. Folger  

Senior Vice President and
  Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 a06-25099_1ex32d1.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit 32.1   

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO    

    18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    

    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO    

    SECTION
906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    

  The
undersigned officer of Courier Corporation (the  Company ) hereby certifies
that the Company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30,
2006 to which this certification is attached (the  Report ), as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof, fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and that the information contained in the
Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of the Company.  

December 7, 2006  

By:   

s/James F. Conway III   

Date  

James F. Conway III  

Chairman, President and  

Chief Executive Officer  

This
certification shall not be deemed  filed  for any purpose, nor shall it be
deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing, under the Securities
Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 7
 a06-25099_1ex32d2.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit 32.2   

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO    

    18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    

    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO    

    SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    

  The
undersigned officer of Courier Corporation (the  Company ) hereby certifies
that the Company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30,
2006 to which this certification is attached (the  Report ), as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof, fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and that the information contained in the
Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of the Company.  

December 7, 2006  

By:   

s/ Peter M. Folger   

Date  

Peter M. Folger  

Senior Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

This certification shall not be deemed  filed  for any purpose, nor shall
it be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing, under the
Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

</EX-32.2>

